ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on the Forests. I'll be very brief, here's a few introductory things to say since it doesn't apply to a lot of articles. The proposed amendments shall cover primarily property issues. The amendment of Article 51 allows for the possibility of detached forest and forest land and the transfer of ownership rights to another legal or natural person to be established if there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia in which the State would remain the owner of forest land. This primarily refers to municipal infrastructure facilities, business zones and others. It is also considered that the interest of the Republic of Croatia was established on the basis of a detailed plan of regulation, i.e. acts adopted on the basis of this document, because the present formulation covered all spatial plans, which was too wide an area where I consider it possible to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia where particles can be isolated. More detailed arrangements are being made for the establishment of services in the forest and forest land in Article 57, so that service could be established for other purposes that could not be foreseen at the time of the law being passed, because in the previous law we have declared that these are services that can be based on forest and forest land, and in the meantime some other situations may arise, so that we ourselves have little prevented the possibility of establishing a service for such purposes. The amendment of Article 91 speeds up and it is possible to adopt all procedures initiated under the provisions of the previous law, and in particular I mean the implementation of an operational programme for the raising of multiannual plantations, primarily olive groves and vineyards, and this programme is well welcomed and significant for certain areas in Istria and Dalmatia. Here's to short.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65392	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, representative and vice president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65393	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, we would like to say that it is good that at the proposal of the SDP Representatives Club, the Government accepted that this proposal should be amended to supplement the Law on Forests be held in two readings, even if at this session. Another thing I'd like to say on behalf of our club is that this amendment to the Forest Act is very difficult for us. We have to say that some things that are otherwise relatively poorly set in the relevant 2005 Forest Act are now being set even worse and are even more radically affecting... , forest and forest land, which would be said on the one hand and on the other, additional space is actually opened to allow the management of Croatian forests to be directly hit with and given, allowing certain services over forest land and forests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And third, which is also important here to note that once again the private interest is being strengthened not taking care of the natural and laid... The forest, and to the detriment of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which must be in accordance with the Constitution when it comes to Croatian forests and forest land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's take the turn. Under the now applicable Law in Article 51, which is changed in its entirety by a new article, and in fact, service, the word "service" is replaced by the word, in the first word "right" which is again, in itself, a service, therefore should not have changed at all because that service could also be left behind. In fact, there remains a fundamental observation which also applies to the existing article 51 and this new one that is offered, which is to allow for the virtually detached forest economic area of a given land, to transfer ownership rights on them, so that a number of things can be established, and all in the extreme line for the reasons of the company, under the name of the existence of the interest of the Republic of Croatia which is considered to exist when it is governed by a detailed plan of arrangements in relation to acts adopted on the basis of it. But respected colleagues and colleagues, as you know these acts... implementations bring units of local and regional self-government and, as you know, it happens that many participate in the purchase of land from the state of both agriculture and forests and forest land which later succeed in changing and supplementing spatial-planned documentation actually installing as a building land on which they generate extra profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this is already to be done, then at the very least two previous conditions must be ensured which must be respected under the law. Any isolated forest land and its replacement should be provided with a replacement of other adequate land to be forested and ensured that the same forest and forest land funds remain. That's number one. And number two, if individuals appear and private interest is actually due to them and changes this law according to our deep conviction then those who will receive such purchased forest land as a building land for the purpose of carrying out spatial-planned documentation should ensure that they have to pay an extra tax on such property which, in relation to such a profit, sells such property if it is especially brought into certain... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's about natural and positional rent. Natural and local rents in the case of forests and forest land do not belong except in cases such as the so-called so-called forest land. the breeding forests where the human work has created forests but where the natural forests do not belong to an individual, it must belong to the Republic of Croatia and to all its citizens and, in this respect, it should actually provide this issue. Another of our comments which is even more interesting is related to Article 57 of the applicable law or Article 6 of the amendment and to the addition of the law where the tax of a series of services listed here in paragraph 1 is introduced and one new which legal theory and legal practice do not know and that is similar. So let us count all of them. Construction of water lines, sewers, pipelines, electricity lines, exploitation of mineral raw materials, the operation of tourist activities, livestock and game farming and the rise of several years of plantations on grown forest land and land is grown by the initial or degradation stages of forest ingredients. Dear colleagues, tell us what is with this and similar things to what should be introduced as services on forest land. It's obvious that an additional part of the manipulation is actually opening up under this similar that many other things can be subdued that are essentially disrupting... and the creature of forest and forest land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is the best way to show, in fact, the amendment to Article 57(2) where the point is deleted and the decimal is added and the words are added: "except for the service contract for the exploitation of mineral raw materials". Look, you know what it means to exploit mineral raw materials, such as sand, gravel, and not to list everything that could be taken under these woods and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will no longer decide, or in particular in this case the minister will not sign such contracts, but will do it again in Croatian forests, and then we will have another state inspection that will determine in the whole series of cases that it is actually certain things. It says here, look at Article 57. Article 57(2) states: "The Treaty on Forest Service and Forest Land referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be concluded on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by the Minister." It is now placed instead of point-pointed and they add the words "except services for the exploitation of mineral raw materials" which means that the contract will not be signed by the minister but by the company of the Croatian Forests. And why would the trade society of the woods do that? Well, that's what it says. This is because paragraph 1 of this Article states, among other things, that the exploitation of mineral raw materials can also be indicated as services. Therefore, in the context of the whole law, it is necessary to read that part and literally implement it. We think it's extremely dangerous and it shouldn't happen. This does not mean that, in exceptional cases, it should also not allow the exploitation of mineral raw materials in forests and forest land but that it must at least be approved by the minister and, in our opinion, the decision should be taken by the Government because it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia and in such a situation to prevent possible abuses and those things that we have already had in these relations. When it comes to the current article 62 or Article 8 proposed, we must also say that there is something interesting in this segment, that more natural persons should not have to pay compensation for the use of common useful forest functions. And why is that? Why now the trade company of the Croatian Forests should pay it as a positional and natural rent and all private owners of Croatian forests that are natural forests should not pay it as a common useful function. Is this retransmission actually part of getting to the interests of private capital? Well, it is. On who? Well, at the expense of the entire community and ultimately all of us. Or, in particular, take the article back to its 58th, and now I have an article 7 that is changing and supplementing where it is said that certain forest land can be leased until the purpose of the forest-economic plan has been established. And now very interesting. So far, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to do so and is now proposed to be, look at the next amendment and addition, before the conclusion of the forest land contract, an opinion must be obtained on the legal validity of the contract from the competent state attorney's office and must be consistent with the economic basis of the Croatian Forests. Well, gentlemen dear, this more actually, what will then be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in paragraph 2 of the current Article 58 where it says: "The way and criteria for the lease of forest land will be prescribed by the Government." So what's it gonna say when it's practically everything? Then the government has nothing left to prescribe. Croatian forests prescribe this because it says here, again, "certain forest land can be leased until the arrest of a purpose which is determined by forest-economic plans". Forest-economic plans are... and the conditions and ways, therefore, there is nothing left for the Government but to make a declarative decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not determine and protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but it is actually done by the Croatian Forest itself. Whether we can transfer such public authority to the Croatian forests, I do not know it but experience shows that there have been many abuses in that area and that in such a situation should not be decided lightly on such a variant. Anything else? You have the last article of the 11th, which says, "This law comes into force on the day of its publication in the People's Newspaper." So, not only is it an urgent attempt to change and supplement this law in an urgent way, but even when it is adopted immediately on the day of publication it should take effect that as soon as possible they can solve some things behind which it is obvious that some are already waiting at the door for this law to be passed as soon as possible in order for their interests to be realized. Gentlemen, this is the opposite of the Constitution. The Constitution explicitly states in Article 89 that the law enters into force at the earliest eight days from the day of its publication unless, for particular reasons, the law provides otherwise. You see, the law may be different, but before that it should be explained to this Assembly which are particularly justified reasons for this to happen. Let's see who's at the door waiting for this law. From all of this, it is obvious that the government has also recognised that this relatively small change and addition of the Law on Forests is actually carrying a whole series of hidden interests that need to be realised and that it is due to the government's acceptance that this is going to go into two readings which we, of course, support but we turn in this previous and general discussion after first reading of the Government's attention to these facts with the aim of practically changing and supplementing this in a different way to the final draft of the law depending on what the final bill will be and will depend on how the SDP Representatives' Club will vote because such solutions as are now being offered cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65394	Thank you. There's one correction. Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65395	I'm correcting an incorrect quote from a distinguished colleague, Arlovic. Namely, the Service Treaty for the exploitation of mineral raw materials according to the applicable regulations on behalf of the State shall be concluded by the Committee for the Management of State Property, and in this part I support it that it should be placed inside... Because it turns out it's unclear who does it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It even doubts whether the Forest itself is doing it because the minister is not working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65396	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65397	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. When something goes wrong and sour like it was the adoption of a valid Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, then what happens is that it didn't even come into effect, we go to its amendments and additions. If you remember, last year, we took down four, five times the urgency, discussed the first reading, and the second, the government decided to withdraw the proposal as was the same situation as the Hunting Law. And it happened exactly what we assumed, but for all the remarks that we made on the final proposal, it means before it was adopted in December last year this Law was then an explanation: it is the law with the label P.Z.E. I am now interested in why there is no P.Z.E. label here.? And what does that mean, are we in sync or are we not in fact in sync? And yet there's this situation where the responsible people who hit that famous green seal obviously have an easy hand and strike in situations where the right alignment has not been carried out. The problem is a significant number in this area. We heard about a number of these problems today. The first thing to say, the questions mentioned in the proposal, is not a final proposal, and it is good that we can discuss in two readings, in the proposal of this law concerning giving these opportunities to build business zones and all that is important and for that part about services, are issues that normally need to be solved there. The first thing I have to say is that we should go, that what, as far as possible, is to the least possible extent possible to the authority. Because expropriation means sales. The state is giving up something that's her property. She's selling it. And there's always been a variety of machinations on the team. These or those, those or those of nature. At best, some may have been able to resolve the issue of extradition in six months. It's been years and another day, today I know cases where they're solving expropriations, and it's not a good solution for the state to deny its assets. Because it's far smarter in many of these cases that have been told for Article 51 means to see, to go to concessions. But not concessions on 20, 30 years but... about concessions, let's say, for a longer period of time and even 99 years, depending on the purpose and purpose that is being achieved in this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should protect this part of the forest and forest land. We know what they mean for the state and we are aware of the situation that many from abroad are interested in reaching part of the natural wealth of the Republic of Croatia in a certain way. We know ourselves what the situation was in this area that a lot of bad work was done or that the relevant bodies did not respond in time. Here I will again point out that example of cities and municipalities in Istria who have illegally usurped so-called cities and municipalities. General property. The municipalities and cities signed up so they enlisted as their forest land. After that, in most cases they shared this with their likeers, and then they went through changes in spatial, urban plans and allowed you to build it and it is in part of Istria along the Croatian Adriatic. These disputes have been reportedly the Croatian State's Attorney General's Office since 1999, but as they were then, they are still today and that they have not done anything there. Like they didn't do anything about it, which means it's about what happened. the situations to be declared legally invalid and the procedures because the State owns both the Constitution and the law, that is, the Law on Forests. But now it's gone because the people who got it then sold it expensively, so now it's a resale. Well, I wouldn't be surprised if there were a lot of strangers in that way who came to the real estate. It is best to address these issues through concession or service as already done and these provisions mean service-related are good because in this way state, remains land means forest or forest owned by the state. On the other hand, the state has revenues annually from these services, and after that, it depends on what the service is given. So there is also the ultimate purpose of this forest land and what is important in the sense of the preservation of the forest, and that it is not all devastated, or that no one is concerned about it. I therefore propose to the Proposer that he thinks carefully about the amendments to Article 51 and that he strives as far as possible to the least possible exception of this extradition procedure or sales. It would be wiser to go to concessions because these solutions here indicated by non-participation in the right way of the State Attorney's Office that plays that role in the former Ombudsman's office will allow for a variety of machinations and the possibility of re-emergence to the harm of the state. It means negative things. And more importantly, the situation is that everything is now happening within the same institution. So there's a circle closed. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Economy, Croatian Forests. They have signs of leaders in the Croatian forests. The inspection is the same in that. So nothing will come out, and we create a fertile ground for various forms of machination, for various forms of corruption, and that is what I keep saying that we must keep watch here in the Croatian Parliament when we bring regulations that many have a variety of interesting lobbys that in some ways want to reach, in this case to forest land in a simple way. And after that, it is well cashed and it only goes to them for their benefit, and the supervision and control is quite narrowed down because it all takes place in one and the same circle where the ministry, where the state officials are on the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests, where the inspection is, and therefore there is a real space for manipulation, for machinations, for corruption, and therefore I suggest that this is well thought out and that concessions are carried out with precise conditions of competition and everything else and protection of state property, this time of the Croatian Forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65398	Thank you very much. It's the HNS Club and Mr. Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65399	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So the Croatian People's Party and I personally support this amendment to the bill's proposal regarding particularly the expansion of industrial zones, windscreen systems, etc. However, we, like most of my colleagues who have been on the Committee on Agriculture, are skeptical, afraid of manipulation, law-playing, law-abiding, as we have witnessed so far that we have had agricultural land given to the olive planters, so after a few years it entered the spatial urbanist plan, so we have new rich people with various manipulations that I don't think the legal regulations should allow. For this reason we tried to make some remarks about our own and the ministry referred to that this law, which is about forests, and I assure you in Dalmatia where these industrial zones would spread along cities, municipalities and counties, would have no forests either. Why don't we make this unnatural law called the woods, why don't we make this unnatural law natural and why we slave because someone in Yugoslavia once said that pastures are chic and maquis of the forest, which is why we're slaved to it today. I think it's a question here today for all the questions to be called by their real name. If it's a squirm to be a wuss. If it's a mascara to make it a mascara, and then it would be a lot less abuse of the forest because we're talking about forests here, and this change is mostly going to the expense of these municipalities in Dalmatia and the cities that... industrial zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Industrial zones we can't spread outside our settlements. So whose land is this? Who do we slave to? Well, it's the same for our citizens to work, work, work, live. But worst of all, it's not a forest. It's a chic and a maquis and a stoner, etc. I think we need to go to this amendment to the law to re-moving the Law of the Forests, so chicare, maquis, I don't know swamps, etc. It all came under the woods. For what? That needs to change. And to clear things up for me here today, i.e. You ministry gentlemen would like to tell us the first question that the municipalities, what cities, how many hectares are being done so that there would be no doubt of any abuse here. Because I really don't want to believe there'd be some kind of abuse here. I think this is in terms of development and I know specifically some municipalities and cities in Dalmatia that are waiting for this and I don't think there's any manipulation that people want to work, spread. So it's all legal. But I'd like to say in this House about how many hectares there are, what cities and municipalities and the structure of the property of that land. So it doesn't matter if it's land based on a spatial urban plan and if it's private property of someone or if it's state land. I think if we want to avoid any doubt that we should be there transparent and clear and there's no reason why we shouldn't be. At least that's my opinion. And as far as the law in the catastrous is concerned, we also have opportunities to rename land as a building, forest, agricultural land. So we have now in the Law on the Cataster of Chances where these minor procedures are private I don't know, etc. It means that if I look at it on the positive side, I don't think there's any reason why we wouldn't accept it, except I say again, since by now we've all done all the laws we've done, we've had some holes in the law. I think we should avoid it in advance and be clear and transparent here and, let's say, present ourselves to the Parliament about what communities these are. I know about what they are, that there really doesn't make any sense to discuss some abuses, and I also can't imagine that with our municipalities and cities of land which is also our state that it can't serve its municipalities, its people's cities in expansion, the development of new jobs, etc. We cannot slave that the windmills that the future will probably show in Croatia will be one of the main sources of electricity. That'll be very soon. It may not be 10 to 15 years, so we'll be enslaved by some laws that wouldn't allow it to start now, that we have the experience we'll need for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65400	Thank you very much, on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65401	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forestry, which comes only a few months after we passed a law that was in line with European laws. In his explanation, the secretary of state said, among other things, that the aim of this amendment to the law is to solve some of the lagging objects that are standing, and my basic question in this law would be to propose whether this law is compatible with European laws, because that basic law bears the title P.Z. Is it in line with the commitments we made as the Republic of Croatia at the 2003 Ministerial Conferences on Forests in Vienna and the World Forum on Forests in New York 2005. This is a fundamental question and therefore the European Union will observe whether we have passed laws that have been harmonised or that we have gone to change something that may not be harmonised. In the bill, there is not a single word about it, and I think it should be delivered for a second reading to see the consistency of these proposals proposed now. Because otherwise, we can't pass the law. In principle, I would say on behalf of the HSS Club that we support the adoption of services to increase olive groves, orchards and so forth, but we also cannot accept that the service is given to quarryes, for some other things that I think should be dealt with in a different way. Especially since giving service to quarrys disappears the forest, the forest disappears permanently. Just as the forest has permanently disappeared through the Law of Roads, which is allowed to build public roads without compensation. I don't mind building roads, but if we're building a stock to Split and Dubrovnik where 15 acres of forest will disappear, then we're obliged as a state to secure the same area elsewhere. At least that would be minimal. And those are the standards that I mentioned in these ministerial conferences. It is therefore required today in Europe to increase the state, the number of areas under the forests, and not to decrease. And in that part, I think that we need to protect all possible usurpations that would happen and that would aim at reducing the areas under the forests that the Republic of Croatia today has in one appropriate quantity of 44%, and in that part we are, among other things, to say in percent higher ones in Europe, and we can be proud that we have an international ecological standard, i.e. the FSC certificate. What we haven't done so far, and what some colleagues have been talking about, it means that some surfaces are being changed. So far, we haven't left any remaining plans in the county, in the municipalities, so that we've made it possible for some of the surfaces that used to be run I don't know under the woods to get a certain repurpose. In some municipalities, this was done regularly, and some did not. And that's why problems are now when a small municipality wants to have some area for its industrial zone, and it didn't match or re-design it in time. It was very easy to make spatial plans. I know, here I am looking at Mr. Shirtz, sometimes in Pakrac it was done where we've exactly distinguished the border which is, as far as the forest is and as long as the agricultural area is and then there's no problem, you know. But now if there is something that is already forested and introduced into the fundamentals of management to be re-purposed, then I think the only way to do so is to defile forestry completely for that surface and that another surface can be raised up to that surface. Of course there are many interests, and so far we have had cases, many cases in Croatia where the municipalities have just usurped most of the forest land, where they have sold the land, turned it into construction areas and, as one of their colleagues said, gave it to some local residents there with some ridiculous, small fees. And today the value of this land is very high. And to us, it has to be a goal, and it's not just in Istria as it's said, it's all over the coast, it's worth 20 or 50 times more land today than it was given for it. And I think that as a state, we should still take care of this state-owned property, first of all, of this forest that has not only a function of some kind there to be a building area, but it has a broad protective function. And in that part, even in the law it is well stated that all this protective function represents and that are the basic general useful functions that the forest as such gives. What further bothers me in article 57, which says that the minister will be authorized to give these services for water, sewerage, gas pipeline, electricity. No one's doubting that, as per the spatial plans, it's supposed to, it has to go through the woods, to do it. But I would like, then, to have our inspection, which is now a forest in the ministry, examine all the concessions that have been given so far, who signed them, on whose behalf and whether they have the authority to do so. And I know those cases do. However, it is obvious that he does not want to be controlled. Well, here, I appeal to the Secretary of State to check all such services given and authorized by who had and who gave for them. Also when we talk about this article 62 about compensation for... I think it makes sense that a private person doesn't have to pay that fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think you should specify that the way that legal persons will pay that fee. I don't think it's well hit right now, and it should simply add with a brief sentence that the forms and methods of payment will be prescribed by the Minister or the Government to know exactly what rules that will happen. Now it seems to me that FINA is not fully authorized to control private, private companies' accounts in banks and that it cannot sit on those accounts and charge that fee if someone disobeys the bill. I think that with a brief sentence we can fix it and thus enable everyone to contribute adequately to the further part above all and to the protection of the forest, the environment and everything else in one quality way. In doing so, I would also refer to the proposal for a law relating to Article 51, where I say once again that it would be good for quarryes and other needs, especially for roads, to carry out a procedure of expropriation on, as was the previous years of the case and that, since we will remain permanently free of these surfaces, we will then allow the second part to raise certain surfaces that will replace those permanently missing surfaces. Because it's hard for me to explain, if we're going to give service on a quarry, then to some hill that's going to disappear, it's not a service. There will never be that hill again. And why am I saying that? So far, as far as I'm aware of my forest practice, only one case of quarry recovery has been made. That's what the Croatian roads did. No other case I do not know that a private company has rescheduled some quarry that has been completed, but rather Croatian forests had to resuscitate it according to the inspection findings. Because, usually, these companies failed and after that, they were at risk of the state. So far none, I say except for that case in Face, and just to prevent that, I think that's the way to make the bill. I also don't think it's good to talk about waiting for some to wait for this law to be passed. We had a chance a few months ago when we passed a full law to suggest all of that as well. Because like this, I'm here for a year and a half here, we're already talking about the forest law five times, any changes, additions, at that short time. If we keep this up, and the former 91 law had one 20 changes, then even this law that we passed a few months ago won't go much better. Here's the HSS club will support that the law goes into another reading, but here we expect about these topics that I mentioned here, that for the second reading we still get different suggestions that will define it and allow Croatia to continue to have the noise it has so far, not that there is a drastic reduction in that noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65402	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65403	Thank you very much. I have to correct my colleague's quote. The fact is that the company "Knauf" in the area of the Municipality of Diocese executed a terrain on which the truth God was not a quarry, is a private company, and the site is gypsum and... The fact is, however, that something is being done in this area. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65404	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65405	Mr. Vice President, this is a classic example that happens here in Parliament, that someone corrects someone for something they didn't say. My colleague said no, but it was something else. I think at least it deserves some kind of warning to fix something that someone hasn't said, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65406	I agree that there are cases like you have been obliged to mention this member of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to. Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65407	Dear Mr Vice President, esteemed gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture, Forests, etc. How do I look at this law? The forest must not be in any way an obstacle to people's ability to work, that local self-government can develop, that the state can't build highways and so on. Let this country think a little more about construction and less about destruction. Let the government make public administration offices issue local and construction permits within a reasonable time period, not because of their unhappiness in Croatia crying out for each kuna, each dollar, each euro of investment will be blocked between one and two billion euros or dollars each day. I claim that today in Croatia it is blocked because of the failure of the state administration to issue location, construction, etc. permits, local self-governments that have not harmonised spatial plans etc. So every day it's blocked between a billion and two billion euros or dollars. However, the state can see it the following way. If that money had not been blocked by chance, just on the basis of VAT, it would have already collected 250 to 500 million euros, which means that it would, for example, have a two-month pension payment to the army of a million and 40,000 pensioners. And that's why we certainly need a flexible forest law. I'd like to remind you, it seems to me that in 93, the state has taken over agricultural and forest land. In this way, she completely disbursed the local self-government in a way that had left it without money and without authority, and after that intervention, legal intervention and without property, specifically without agricultural and forest land. This law should mean from the forest economic base exclusive forest, forest land, and to the purpose of establishing a service in the forest due to construction, I don't know the waterway, highway, collector, water storage, gas pipeline, wind power plants, due to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, due to the final rise of years of plantations especially over the fire-fired forests, as it now intends to raise in Istria an olive grove of approximately 300 hectares in a position between Pula and Vodnjan. I personally believe that such initiatives as work together with the Ministry of Forestry are certainly good. I think that the fireland encased in some culture should be in the interest of the wider community, that it is certainly useful. So if we can enlarge this area, Croatia must not slave with absurd laws that have been in force so far. It's good to say Article 3 extends to entrepreneurial zones as well. It would not be good for the borders of a city to be clearly restricted because of forests, etc. It is clear that no one in this House is in favour of some wild construction, for the devastation of space, especially that of the coast. But once again, we must stop enslaved form for the simple reason that life in this country changes every day. What was a forest 150 years ago in our catastrus, it is no longer today, although it is generally the other way around, that what used to be orans, vineyards, olive groves, etc. Today is the forest. I'm afraid to say that because of that zero-pile law, our vineyards don't turn into woods again because our basements are full and our harvest is about to go. If we don't use this tourist season, Mr. Secretary of State, I think your government is going to ruin another wine season for us. Who? To small people, peasants, who have no one to offer their product because of this law, and we'll agree that with 0.5 pomegranate, no one is drunk. I don't want to talk about it anymore, at least we understand each other, but I don't understand why a law like this can't change for two or three years. In Article 5, I am glad to be supported by the gentlemen of the HDZ. In Article 5(2) behind the words "marking the tombs of victims of the Homeland War", I would add: "and World War II". So it's a neutral form, gentlemen,... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let the period 41 to 45 be marked and the period of employment everywhere where the crime was committed. However, this is also possible by virtue of the existing law, Article 37, which mentions for example. Not only the places of mass graves from the Homeland War but also the possibility of raising monuments and features in connection with historical events etc. Article 7(3), where a public lawyer is expected to give a lease opinion, is absolutely correct. That's correct. Only after the attorney general has given his opinion that it should be a holy letter, unless it is clearly given for bribery, for coercion, for favoration and so forth. And not that which is thus to the harm of a conscientious tenant shall be questioned in, for example, some courts. It was, it was a regular practice in Istria where courts, for example, annul contracts that, before that, back in the '90s, were certified by public defenders who today, the note bene, were part of the State's Attorney's office. And that status was won after 2000, it seems to me, the former government, my government didn't know how to get rid of... However, what I mean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the attorney's office, the State's Attorney's office can verify a contract, and then the courts have a dispute, then there's some damage to the state, not this conscience legally, or I don't know what I'm going to call it, the tenant. I'm saying it first and foremost because what's done in some counties just seems to me, to be gentle, to be an extorted behavior from some centers. But now it doesn't matter. This law is certainly necessary because no one has the right, in my court, to stop life or where the forests are not functional, and I suppose it should be of interest to be on that land, for example. We build a highway, we build some water supply, we build now what wind power plants say, gas pipeline, some monument, whatever, the pipeline, lifts on the fire-fired land of an olive grove, etc. This Law means by the Court of the IDS Club a good law, but one that will soon come about the tax, as they have called it, on weeds where for unprocessed meadows it is intended to introduce rent or payment obligation 250 kuna ora, 500 kuna vegetable, 800 kuna orchard, thousand kuna vineyards, thousands of kunas, etc., it is a disaster. And even bigger is how you're gonna give a gentleman unprocessed land on a three-year lease to someone else. So if a road is built, if such a water is built, if some water is built in a forest, then let absolutely, as Mr. Ledinsky says, find the right space. The breach in this country mostly along the coast is enough and let that cross be forested. I said the forest land was municipal by 93. Here some MPs mentioned some of the parcel interests in Istria. As far as I know, no single person has come that way and that meter of forest. The truth is, 100 acres was sold, whether it was a forest all or not I don't know how many, Barbara Dragoners. I probably wouldn't do that, but it's done. But it was done with a court expert with an assessment of the tax administration, with a public tender. And there's a 200m-euro investment going on there today. This is certainly the largest tourist investment that is currently under construction on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, of which the Croatian government will receive about 50m euros based only on VAT, which is 400 000 pensions, 400 thousand pensions correspond to that equivalent. Because Brion on the other hand, Vodnjan was the only one who could not develop touristly, and this space was probably intended for such an investment by the former Vodnjan municipality. However, some other parties can talk about positive examples of their rabbits, etc. But what do I want to say to this occasion? That at 6,000 kilometers of Croatian coast, when tourism is in the wake of a tourist resort, perhaps 2.3 hotels, one camp, nothing else has been built. Gentlemen, let's not simply slave to some form sometimes, although everything must be, clearly, done in accordance with the best of grooms and all according to the law. This morning when there was a debate about the University of Pula, I only mentioned some figures and unemployment. So I said that in the County of Istria, annual unemployment was expressed in a number of 6 thousand 374 citizens last year. That's 6 to 7%. On the other hand, I mentioned the case of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County with which Istria alone can compare, out of 17,000 575 unemployed or 80% more unemployed, there is a population of the County of Istria. I assure you that these 6 thousand 374 citizens of the County of Istria who today have 30 thousand voters more than they had in 95, deserve to be found a job and deserve to simply find a job in that space, and without some larger investments it will hardly happen. Because nothing will fall from the sky like some might expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65408	Thank you very much. It's a little bit of this, just a gentleman who turned off the subject and declared these drivers guilty of bad wine placement. Everyone is allowed to drink except for the time when they drive. Therefore, no one has forbidden anything. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65409	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The HDZ Club will support the amendments and additions to this Act, and our ruling on the proposed amendments is next. The Law on the Forests Croatian Parliament passed six months ago. The implementation of the Law identified difficulties in resolving the requirements of legal and natural persons for the separation of forests and forest land from the forest economic area for the transfer of ownership rights or the establishment of the right of service on that land for the purpose of its use for other purposes. So here, in these six months it has already been shown that there are certain difficulties and that is the only reason why we feel that we really need to go to these amendments and the additions to the law because otherwise we will be in a situation where we have been in the implementation of the past law. The demands will be piled up, the demands of citizens and the economy and our municipalities and cities will not be resolved, and mainly they relate to the realisation of certain programmes both in agricultural activity and in the development of a small economy, the establishment of entrepreneurship zones. And our Government and the Croatian Parliament have also determined that we will do all of this to make it possible, that these activities are developed in one normal and of course legal way and that state bodies such as our Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry do everything possible to achieve this quickly and efficiently. It is therefore proposed to amend and supplement the applicable Law of the Offices of Provisions which regulate the obligation to develop forest management plans, the procedure for resolving property relations for the separation of land, the lease of forest land, the payment of compensation for the use of even useful forest functions, the administrative and appeal procedures, the completion of the procedures initiated and the requests of citizens under the law of 1983, that is, from the 2005 law, that is, this applicable Act of Amendment that we are discussing here today. The State Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia has rightly proposed that its jurisdiction under Article 17(2) of this Act be abolished in the procedure of granting forest and forest land to state administration authorities and legal persons established by the Republic of Croatia. The proposer has therefore proposed to amend Article 17(2) of the applicable Law in a way that the powers of the Croatian State Attorney's Office are deleted, i.e. It is indeed not necessary for such supervision of the state authorities which, their work and supervision of them are carried out in another way and there is no need for the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to participate in this surveillance. Amendments to Article 51 of the current Act empower the Government of the Republic of Croatia or from it an authorised authority to exempt certain forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest economic area and to transfer the right to another legal or natural person or to establish the right of construction if there is any interest in the Republic of Croatia. The resolution of property law relations for the purpose of setting up entrepreneurship zones for the construction of municipal infrastructure and the second one will be able to be resolved now through the application of the building rights institute and the owner of the land remains the Republic of Croatia. This will also enable citizens, municipalities and public enterprises, and others, is that without simpler and, faster, simpler and cheaper, provide space for the above-mentioned needs which so far and the provisions so far have not been the case because the institution of the right to build in law did not have. The new paragraph of Article 51 provides that there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia if that land is required to implement a detailed plan and arrangements, i.e. an appropriate act to be issued on the basis of documents of spatial arrangement, defence of the Republic of Croatia, marking the place of mass graves and victims of the Homeland War. Determination of the interest of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a detailed plan of arrangements we consider a good solution because it prevents arbitrary interpretation of the purpose of space based on some spatial plans of the higher order, but by tightening the conditions, i.e. that the relevant act issued on the basis of spatial order documents is not recognised instead of a detailed plan, we believe it would not be good to introduce the provisions of the law because the procedure will be very seriously complicated. Such a proposal has been proposed by our Legislative Committee. According to our assessment, we consider this to be too harsh a measure because the territory of the Republic of Croatia for all cities of municipalities and settlements is not currently a movement with detailed spatial planning and we still have to use a local permit, or document issued on the basis of an appropriate spatial plan. After all, the proposer proposed this and proposed it in the draft law and we think it should continue to remain for a second reading. We consider a good solution to the provision of amendments to Article 51(5), which stipulates that the decision to extract land from the forest economic area is an administrative act. This will allow the parties, however they may be, that in the event of a need to initiate an administrative dispute against acts of the ministry, no appeal proceedings can be conducted, but an administrative dispute can be initiated, and such a provision has never existed in this article so far. The additions of Article 57 of the applicable law shall be subject to a more detailed procedure of service in the forest and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of the construction of municipal infrastructure and other facilities, the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the operation of tourist activities, livestock and game farming, the raising of plantations etc. The service contracts are concluded by the minister, except for the agreement on the exploitation of mineral raw materials to be concluded by the body designated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here we have also checked what our colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry thought was the second body to be designated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we have received notice that this is the Commission for the Management of Property and therefore we support this proposal. Therefore, this will no longer be dealt with by the classical way of solving institutions, or services in the ministry, but the proposal will go before the government, or before the commission, and as it is indeed very serious business in the exploitation of mineral raw materials, I think that such a solution deserves and support. The amendment of Article 62 exempts natural persons who carry out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, the obligation to pay compensation for the use of common useful functions of the forest, amounting to 0,07% of total income, as these persons do not make income but income and income. In our assessment of the truth, we should not have burdened them with this because even so far private forest owners have not paid in our country this contribution to the general usefulness of forest functions. By adding a new Article 70a. an appeal procedure shall be arranged for the resolution of the forest advisory service and the competent authorities of the state administration and the launch of a administrative dispute on solutions of the ministry. Amendments and additions to Article 91 of the current law shall be governed by the way in which procedures under the provisions of the 1983 law published in the "National Journal" 57/83 have been completed so far. We believe that the law of 1983 should be settled under the provisions of the law and you will begin the proceedings from the date of entry into force of this applicable law, which was passed at the end of 2005 to comply with the provisions of this law. Well, we believe that it is necessary for the Proposer to supplement Article 91 of the applicable law in that regard. Mr. Vice-President, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports that this law goes into second reading and we hope that the proposaler for a second reading will take note of the comments made in this presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65410	Thank you very much. At 12.04, it's past ten minutes' notice time. It's PGS, SBH, MDS, Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65411	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Assistant Minister! Let us, on behalf of the regional party club, comment on the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the First Reading, and immediately say that we are also this small proposal to amend and supplement the law, conditionally small, because among other things as a regional party, we hold that these amendments and additions to the laws are those that are more interested in what we figuratively call peripheral Croatia, what is interested in the Croatian regions because the woods are a problem which is important where we act, which is important to all less urban environments and less Zagreb, and everything that deals with the Croatian periphery we very much support. We agree with what has been said so far in the debate that in general speaking, it is not good that we too often bring amendments and additions to the law. That's what we've been saying about some other amendments and the addition of the law here because it's definitely no matter what the honourable representative before me said that it's logical why these amendments and additions go, that the third, fourth or fifth changes and the addition of some law are seriously changing the essence of the law, and it would be better if we had less of these changes and additions. When it comes to the woods, we want to say first of all something in principle. We think that the question of forest, forestry, exploitation of forest goods in Croatia is still not quite well enough and completely solved and that there is still, there are a whole series of things that should be reminded of this occasion. Today we heard in the debate on behalf of a club on several occasions and in several sentences the story of the state, state, state, is being damaged by the state interest, it will be damaged, the state woods will be reduced, why private interests are preferred in relation to the state, and I would like to oppose some of the thoughts that I think are also needed because of the general debate on this issue and because of the public. Before World War II in Croatia, only 16% of the forests were national. The woods were private property and forests were owned by land communities and forests were nationalised in 1947. Therefore, even today when we talk about these state forests, I think we should appreciate the fact that, apart from the dry state interest, we need to look at something more broadly and see what this forest wealth that Croatia has undisputedly gave to its citizens, then also gave to former owners. You know that a whole series of initiatives in Croatia were about the return of land communities. No one in the state structure has ever tried to react more seriously to this, let alone to see how some fair compensation of former owners can be done, the compensation of those who were these land communities. That's what we're very interested in in the Primorian-Gorski County. We are also very interested in the fact that in the Gorski Kotar which I think is indisputable, whose wealth in this forest fund was undeniable in the land communities of 25 thousand hectares of forest quality, I can freely say perhaps the most qualitative forests in Croatia. How is it that people, individuals, citizens, so the followers of these land communities are compensated? So through a forest rental that must be said to be in its scope in what brings local self-government and then to the citizens of minors, it is miserable, it is ridiculous and we cannot say once that through the system of forest rentals must be valorized by a possible unit of local self-government as followers of land communities and significantly multiple than it is now through forest rentals given to local self-government units that can be invested in the development of these parts. That's the theory that people are very poor and that people are very hard to live by rich forests and their grandfathers own these forests. It is the position of the mountains and therefore they speak very emotionally on this subject and I say it in this case on behalf of them because I am a representative from that county. And I think what I'm saying right now is fair. We don't think natural restitution of land communities can be done, absolutely. But we have a system of local self-government that is somehow the one that follows those that used to own the forest. So 16% of the national forests turned into 80% of the national forests, the highest unemployment rate in Croatia in the Gorski Kotar, which is the richest forest. And because of that, to move to this law now, we support the spirit of the law because the people of Gorski kotar tell us we want these forests exploited, so the forests are growing, we are not losing the forest, the forest masses are there. And we also live hard, our children have no jobs, leave first of all in Rijeka, Karlovac and Zagreb and we have this depopulation of Gorski kotar which can be solved among other things in a way that allows more economic activity in the forest area. This is why this spirit of the law we support both this 51 and this 57, by definitely saying that we think here in the debate enough is said to say that the Proposer should once again pay attention and accept some of the concerns in terms of and possible abuses and in terms of possible real damage and see what else can be done in terms of protection and supervision, in terms of these approval procedures. Absolutely the spirit of the law we support. I'd say on this occasion, I'd use time as a very specific example. One of the most underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia is the area of the City of Chabra. The town of Chabar has a vast portion of the territory in Risnjak National Park. All of us skiers are going to Italy and Austria to ski. We ski in national parks of dolomites, on the Tower, and I don't know where. In our Croatian National Park, Risnjak cannot be made a ski course for the reason that we have such legislation, and the only real conditions for making a real ski resort are that Mr. Assistant knows better than I do where in one part of the Risnjak National Park where there are snow, where there are minuses and where the natural conditions are such. With all the environmental protection, with everything that's sustainable development we need to modernise the laws and we can't say in our national park there can't be a ski resort, so go continue to ski where you're going, and we'll build ski resorts in places where the south takes snow at 24 hours or where the storm takes it at 6 hours and where the conditions don't exist. We therefore hold that liberalisation is the right to go with economic activities in the part of the forest areas. What is good, but we expect the ministry to absolutely respect these remarks that have been made to consider the installation of more protection measures and to answer the question of compliance with the European legislation that has been set up here because today it should be practically something that should be given in the adoption of each law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65412	Thank you, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First correction by Mr. Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65413	Thank you, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First correction by Mr. Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65414	Madam Vice-President, a respected fellow representative stated in his presentation that there is no ski resort in Gorko Kotar National Park. The ski resort cannot be made in such a way that its construction is not envisaged by an appropriate spatial plan and implemented by law by the prescribed procedure. Thus, a ski resort can be built there, but the conditions foreseen must be met by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65415	Thank you very much. The following correction to the incorrect allegations is a representative of Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65416	Honored Vice President, the esteemed colleague made a mistake in one year. Land communities with the heads of state's head of state's most of them, so I'm asking that we handle the exact data. That's the exact information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65417	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. No more club reports. The first is MP Stazic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65418	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Small law, 11 articles and yet unusually important. Forests represent an extraordinary wealth of this country. We're lucky to be rich in forests and we'd have to worry about keeping that fortune, handing it over to future generations. Does this law promote, such an interest of the Republic of Croatia. No, exactly the opposite. It is undervalued by the importance and wealth of forests and predicts that entrepreneurship zones are established in forests. It is incorrect that he said that his colleague Ivanis could not be in the forest but was corrected under the applicable law to build a ski resort, cableway, because in the current law, he said that the document of spatial planning can be designed to build buildings in the forest or forest land for the purposes of infrastructure, sport by his colleagues Ivanis, recreation, hunting and defence of the Republic of Croatia. So it's all possible. Well, now all that is still being added to the entrepreneurial zones. So now, does the state not have enough land outside the forest to set up entrepreneurship zones for them? Is it true that entrepreneurship zones have to be established right in the woods? That's not in the light of this bill. What does it say? In addition to Article 3. It states in Article 37(2) that the constructions that can be planned with spatial plans are taxed, as has been written in the law so far, and are thus added as an exception and construction in planned entrepreneurship zones. It's an explanation to us as if we were illiterate. As if we ourselves do not know what the article says. And in an explanation, you should write, and why are you now proposing entrepreneurial zones in the woods? What are those reasons? There are reasons why there is no other land, or there are reasons for wanting to please someone, so now there is a law in which there is still a name missing. Name, who will establish entrepreneurship zones in such attractive areas as forests. It's all very suspicious with this bill of law, especially here is the emergency procedure. It is also foreseen by amending Article 51, instead of allowing the legal and physical person to establish services in the forest to be transferred to it and the right to build. So, so far, they've only been able to use the forest, and now they're going to be able to build in it. Of course these two changes are related. If we allow entrepreneurship zones, then we must allow construction in such entrepreneurship zones. And it moves the State's Attorney's Office as it must give consent, and the task of the State's Attorney's Office, one of the tasks of the State's Attorney's Office, is also to take care of the property of the Republic of Croatia and to protect that property. Well, now we're moving them because the state's attorney's office is as independent of the executive, so why would we now have control of such an independent body, so it's best to remove it so that no one can control it. When she assigns forests, parts of the forest to individuals and builds entrepreneurship zones in them. So this is a typical law of furniture, typical. In all its elements. This is what Bozanic, meanwhile, called a sin of structure. This is where structural planning is planned, it is planned, it is planned in advance to please someone, and then in order to do so it must first be amended by legal regulations. And now it's such a legal regulation that changes without any valid explanation why we're getting into this great wealth, the great treasure of Croatia and what's going to hit our heads tomorrow when the forests are devastated and when it's too late to go rescue them and eliminate those already established entrepreneurial zones. That's why it should be against this bill. It's a good thing he's still out of emergency procedures so we don't vote him at 6:00 today. It's good to leave time to think about it one more time. It's good to give the government a chance to challenge all the arguments they'll hear in this debate. To draw away all the benefits and damages of such a legal proposal once again. That if it was the intention of guessing to give it up and that this law actually pulled out of the procedure in a way that never referred it to another reading. This is how in the first reading in the interest of protecting the wealth of the Republic of Croatia should be against this Law. And enterprising zones should be established somewhere else. We need to set them up, we definitely need entrepreneurship zones, but not in the woods. Not in the woods, if that's how we go, then we'll devastate the whole country, the wealth, the beauty of it because of someone's private interests. Let's be here, let's be state-of-the-art here. Let's show that we love this country. Yes, let's show that we love this country and that we prefer this country to private interests, because if we let these private interests of our colleagues overcome these general interests, then some people will laugh just like you are now laughing. But it won't be the citizens of this country. Maybe you or your friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65419	Thank you very much, colleague. We've got one correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Širac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65420	Madam Vice-President, Honorable colleague Stazic said in his presentation that the role of the State's Attorney's Office under this Law moved that land could be available to anyone who wants and directs individuals. A fellow Stazic is a very wrong claim. You probably didn't see the role of the Attorney General's office being ruled out by the proposal of this law? Therefore, only when certain parts of the forest or forest land are placed on the use of state bodies or institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia. And this proposal is a proposal from the State Attorney's Office because it is burdened with resolving unnecessary things where ownership remains owned or owned, and the owner remains the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65421	Thank you very much. We also have one replica. Representative Ivanis. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65422	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague is in... what he said kind of replicated with my thesis that we can't maintain the construction system in forests or national parks that I was talking about, so I'd replicate it with a few not my thoughts but with a few things I hear every day from people in the Gorski Kotar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The people of Gorski Kotar consider fellow Stazić to be the forest you spoke very much of: "The forest to guard, the forest to guard, the forest to protect itself". However, they think they should be kept there more than forest. Because that's where they're going. In 30 years, the population of Gorski Kotar has been halved because they have no place to work. They can only work in a relationship and in, on what's about the forest. And today, Gorani tells you that during the Austro-Hungarian Gorani it was best because they had the highest income from the forest and the greatest ability to manage, they benefit from the forest, but because they know best how to maintain them. That they are best maintained, and therefore the forests in that area, regardless of the exploitation of the last 150 years and preserved and in the surfaces, have not been reduced. Because these people born in the woods know best how to use them and they know best how to maintain them and increase the surfaces under the woods. As regards the rights of construction in national parks or in forests, I can tell you when it was passed in this Assembly The Law on the National Park Risnjak was then large remarks, discussions and petitions were written in the Cobar region to enable the construction of a ski resort in the Risnjak National Park which is not allowed. The fact that there is possibly an extremely complicated and unfulfilled procedure to get permission to build something at the same time means that you can never do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65423	Thank you very much. A fellow Stazic has the right to reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65424	First, there is a big difference between forest and national parks. The behaviour in national parks is different than in forests in general and there is no sign of equality. Another thing, who prevents Gorane and the current law from exploiting these forests and from living off them? No one. And it's regulated by law and it's allowed. It is a question of how much the country itself, the government of a country will invest or encourage a particular economic branch, protect it, allow it prosperity. If it doesn't allow them, if it doesn't help them, it is, then they experience the fate they experience. This law won't help them. They won't stay in the Gorski Kotar if such a law comes into force. No entrepreneurship zones in those woods will keep them there. And this law is not passed because of Goran. He's not proposed for Goran. He is proposed for those who will be granted the forest land in a concession. The Gorans aren't meant here. If the Gorans were thought of then the government would pass, they wouldn't propose a law like this. Then it would encourage some of its funds from the budget, encourage the economy in the Gorski Kotar that is possible, to preserve the beauty of the Gorski Kotar. Because once we destroy the Gorski Kotar and restore it so soon we will never, ever, ever. Some kind of factory chimneys up there, some kind of polluting mountain cot with it is over. Comparative advantages that Gorski Kotar has and can now be used better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65425	Thanks a lot, buddy. Let's move on with the individual debate. Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65426	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Gentlemen, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I must say immediately that I absolutely support the adoption of this law. And one of my personal views. I'm sorry this law doesn't go according to emergency procedures. Because I believe that the problems in the field because of the non-adjustment of this forest law are certainly greater than what we will improve by the second reading with our proposals in this law. And if it goes into second reading, and it goes, it would be good to have it before the summer break, to reduce the problems on the gym that are standing because of this amendment to the law. ... The position of some MPs who criticise the amendments to this Law on Forests, because it was the adoption in the last 5 months when we know that they were in power when the Constitution changed in just a year, not only the improvement of one law that is of interest to the entire population of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it is about separation or service, it is certainly necessary to do so not only because of economic zones but also because of everything that happens positively in Croatia in Istria, which is part of Croatia, and in Dalmatia, in the interior of Croatia and with business zones, and also with olive groves, vineyards, orchards that are raised on such a land in the karst part of Dalmatia, which, due to one's economic interests, has never grown on it, but it was a tiny plant that was very, very often, the cause of big fires in Dalmatia precisely because no one owned such land. And today, passing through Dalmatia, it is nice to see in Istria that olive groves are planted 200, 300 hectares, that vineyards are planted in these areas, that people are convulsing it, so-called "woodland" in which the forest unfortunately never grew. I personally support this land and personally believe that it is of interest to the state of Croatia can be re-purposed into building land. I know about 10 municipalities in Dalmatia that were part of some other cities or municipalities at the time and that because of something more political interest did not have a single square metre of building land in their territory. Nor the rest of all the land around then, this local community was forest land on the economic basis of the Croatian forests, and stones. Today, if they can't reroute this land into building land, they have absolutely no chance of spreading, because they don't have a single square meter of building land. I absolutely agree that there aren't some things to be done, to create lenders, to resell land. If this is the interest of the state of Croatia, let Croatia's forests reroute this land to building land and let them sell it or give it to local self-government units to sell it at a price, a commercial price for building land. I personally know from experience how much of the problem it is to own land that is, in economic terms, Croatian forests in the construction of economic zones. It's a process that lasts two, three years, from the State's Attorney's Office, the forest administration, the ministry, the local self-government unit. In the end, everything has to fall into the hands of a lawyer, and they end up doing the best they can. And potential investors in the economic zone in Croatia can't understand you telling them, so here's the part of this plot is on the economic basis of the Croatian Forests and therefore we can't meet your request. And then people ask where the woods are. There is no forest, but it takes place on the economic basis of the Croatian forests. And what my colleague Stazić said will certainly not be cut down by large forests, forests, rich forests, but by what is being run on the economic basis of the Croatian forests, and there is no forest. So someone said that because of the forest, we cannot prevent the development of a single unit of local self-government in one area. I think he's absolutely right and in that part. Because here's a mountain cotter where some people swear so much, and Lika are the richest with forests, with quality forests. But unfortunately, the poorest are in Croatia today. So then we have to admit that even in the management of forests in all of this, the past time of forty and some years has certainly not been good, because the Gorski Kotar from Ogulin to Rijeka would not have had 40,000 inhabitants if it had been good for the forest. Also, the whole of Lika wouldn't have 50, 60 thousand inhabitants if management had been good to the woods all along. Management was for someone else's interests, that wagons and trucks drove the halves somewhere else, and small production was, or semi-production, the final production was in the area of Gorski kotar and Like, which is certainly not an interest. So I personally support the adoption of this law. I'm sorry he's not going through an emergency procedure and I appeal to go to another reading until the summer break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65427	Thank you very much, colleague. Representative Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65428	You tell a colleague of the Wolf no one's going to cut down the big forest for sure. Where did you read that? That's not what this law says. No one's going to cut down the big forest for sure. This law states that they can be derailed if an entrepreneurial zone is established and large and small and large and at least and medium and all forests are established. That, you add something that's not in the law. Now, if you think it's very necessary to operate an entrepreneurial zone, so now the government is proposing, let's go, so let the government suggest how many of these entrepreneurial zones will be. Are there going to be 100, 500 or 20 or 10? So let's leave it in the power of the Parliament, which today decides on the property of the Republic of Croatia. So forgive me, so let it come with a proposal to be in some kind of forest, to know how many acres, to know who, by whose concession, by what approval, for what purpose, for which purpose, when an ecological study is made, then let the Assembly allow the construction of such an area and the establishment of such a zone. Then it would be one thing to protect the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia, but also to protect its wealth. This way when it will be decided now on if the Parliament brings this law outside the Parliament, then this story of yours that it won't break big woods, it's completely hollow, it's totally unconvincing, it's completely out of this legal text. That's what you've now added to calm the public down, so you won't calm her down with it. You won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65429	Thank you very much. Replicate response, MP Vukic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65430	We are well used to a fellow Stazic interpreting the laws and regulations as it pleases him. And I personally, when I experience that he is one law that is proposed here in this Croatian Assembly, I will pay the lamb for the entire Parliament if I experience it in this session. A fellow Stazić law if you had read then you would surely have seen it writing an unprocessed forest area, according to the law. And also, before each, before building a business zone or any golf course, it must be defined in a spatial plan and a detailed urban plan. So the spatial plans of local self-government units go to the county assembly and the ministry. Certainly neither the County Assembly nor the Ministry will give consent on a spatial basis if a business zone is provided for where there is no need or high forest and not a low growth that is run on the economic basis of the Croatian Forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65431	Thank you very much. Please reduce the amount of tossing from the bench. Next up's a colleague... Please, there's a table. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. I can see you're live after the lamb offering, but I'm asking you nicely to stick to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65432	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Do we need the forest law or the forest devastation law? The devastation of the forest is a criminal offence, and the crime must not be committed by a citizen, not by the state itself. You see, our mouths are full of coastal protection, protection of our land of state, our wealth and wealth, and every few have almost every other concrete legislative proposal and they are very few, but they are now growing state property, dispersing the property of local self-government units in general public well-being. This is not only a sale and sale but an unprecedented care but a thoughtless one, and this is what my colleague Stazic was talking about. We'll see for sure after the law is passed. However, it is time to really stop the devastating trend and to create, to sharpen existing legal standards precisely in order to alienate state property. The law should prohibit alienation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia and even local self-government except in the case of replacement or commissioning to round up a complex owned by those persons. For what? We have a whole series of other institutes. Land that used to be state property, land that was once owned by units of local self-government sold out, which was sold out for property, for example. Some companies, for example, Kaufland, have the rent now. And why the state or even local self-government units are not used by an institute that will be able to benefit from them specifically without any risk, building rights, long-term leases, concessions and actual service. You see the power of this, if it's identical in the local self-government unit as well as in the state because I've experienced it locally because we've just opposed the sale, there's no more to sell in Zadar, there's no more to sell because now it's also an explanation of kindergartens would build but we don't have land because it's all alienated. So stopping the alienation of land owned by the state means preserving the greatest good that belongs to Croatia. We have often received an answer we have received a mandate from the citizens and have confidence in us to work, so that's what we will do. However, from the point of view, I am telling you and I claim natural first, no one has the right to alienate this non-renewable and irrevocable common good, even if the government gets a mandate from its citizens. No one got a mandate for that. Why? Because neither do those who give the mandate of a government who therefore thinks they can do what they want, that treasure, that wealth, we have all inherited from our ancestors, and we owe it only to the improved, not to the poor, to the offspring. So no generation has the authority to deprive that later generation of rights to this common good, and that's exactly what's going to happen to these legal proposals, despite what's happening to the Prime Minister, and so many of us from the government swear that we're going to protect our greatest good, so there's a law here and there that gives me the right to buy, and I'm very interested in how much of this law has been used by the state. But because it can alienate, which can dissipate, it doesn't miss a single law to do so. I have concrete remarks, although this is only the first reading, in article 1. Therefore, it is already clear why there is, for example, no provision in Article 1 of the Treaty on the Accessible Land to obtain the opinion of the competent State Attorney's Office on the legal validity of the transaction. A lot of times, if the government hadn't respected the State's Attorney's office's opinion, then it would have saved itself from the fact that it was somewhere in the drawer somewhere that she wasn't familiar. And now you see article 1 already does not contain such a necessary norm. In order to remind myself, the reason and purpose of the establishment of the Croatian forests as a commercial society and the management of forests clearly stems from the provision of Article 8. The law on forests where it is claimed perfectly normal, that Croatian forests as a commercial society can be managed. They master the woods, but what is mastery? Management does not mean having ownership powers to dispose of forest land for other commercial purposes. Management, therefore, is neither alienation nor a special burden. Therefore, the provisions of Articles 51, 57 and 58 should be put under special bat and, instead of the government’s declaration of government policy on how to protect state land from special interest in the Republic of Croatia, and these have always been forests for each administration system. But apparently nothing is sacred or precious to this government anymore. And therefore, rather than sharpening the existing standards of Articles 51, 57 and 58, they are even more liberalised in that direction, which is exactly unacceptable. Croatian forests as a commercial society cannot rent forest land, make decisions on establishing the right of service or otherwise dispose of state land. These are the ownership powers only the owner of the property, which is the Republic of Croatia. The separation from the forest economic area is not carried out because of forest management but because of the business interest of third parties to build certain buildings or perform certain activities on forest land, which is not in the part of the Croatian Forests. It is certainly necessary to distinguish and manage the forest as a culture which also makes Croatian forests and forest land available in the ownership, property, legal sense. Because that, I repeat, is the original right to land. It has only the Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since it is about the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, all agreements on the availability of forest land whether it is a service or a lease, and we must mention here and touch the basic law, the Law of Ownership and other real rights, which speaks precisely what is a service. It can be extremely based on a certain property. Of course, then he inherits as the real right of the day-to-day owner. Therefore, for such properties there are softer provisions on availability than for other properties that are not even of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. I then have an objection to Article 6, so as to amend the provisions of Article 57. So, here, he was talking about it on behalf of the SDP club colleague Arlović who is quite, because it is completely incomprehensible for us in the SDP to therefore extend such opportunities to such another rubber norm and so on. Rather than being on the trail of the declared policy this government wants to explain to the public, it does something else in practice. Therefore, instead of erasing the words of the existing Article 57. "the breeding of cattle" and, therefore, when the forests contract, "the farming of cattle, game, the raising of year-old plantations on unprocessed forest land and land bred by the initial or degradation stages of forest ingredients", even now the word "and the like" is added. What am I saying this for? Because the provision in paragraph 1 and Article 2 to just remember the Agricultural Land Act is prescribed to be considered agricultural land. So agricultural land is considered vineyards, olive groves, orchards and other land that can be brought to agricultural production. According to the provisions of the Law on Agriculture Winery, olive growing and fruit growing are agricultural activities and for the raising of these cultures, therefore, years of plantation, farmers have even the right to pay off incentives. Another thing is that they don’t get them regularly, or just some get them. And I believe that there is, therefore, no legal or economic justification for agricultural production being carried out on forest land, by raising plantations and that long-term. A covert re-use of forest land in agriculture would be executed. And control of production, use of incentives, building facilities for the purpose of agricultural production, the irrigation infrastructure cannot be solved by this forest law. And what's more important, all the incomes to be used, listen a little bit, and then you'll make a deal later. If you had agreed more with this law, surely, that is, the proposal would not be here in front of us parliamentary representatives. Therefore, all the profits referred to in Articles 51, 57 and 58 should be stopped, indicating that the revenue of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65433	Thank you very much, colleague. Correction of an incorrect allegation, MP Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65434	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Anticevic, said the law is breaking up state property and the property of local self-government. That's absolutely incorrect. If we look at the spirit of the Law that was passed last year at the 11th month we see that the protection of Croatian forests is defined in one excellent, in one perfect way. However, the ministry and we from the region of Dalmatia received a lot of letters and was a reaction from local self-government units on the subject of Article 51, which the colleague is talking about. It is precisely because, in this way, in the existing law, the provisions are such that they mean the braking of development, the development of the economy, the solving of the unemployment problem, not just from the area where I come from. Therefore, the reaction was also from units where the SDP has participated or is in power. Therefore, you cannot, in any case, represent views that mean a stalemate in the economy and prevent the implementation of spatial-planned documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65435	Thank you very much. Next correction of the incorrect quote, MP Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65436	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In her inspired presentation, Mrs Anticevic cited one great inaccuracies, which is that the ministry, or the competent state institutions of our agricultural producers, does not pay off incentives for agricultural production that they belong to under special laws. Of course, that is not true, and it is especially not true that only some are paid, and some are not paid. That's not true. Incentives are paid as planned and planned, i.e. by the state budget. The funds are being secured and the incentives are paying off.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65437	Thank you very much, colleague. Replica, MP Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65438	Thank you very much. Well, in the first part of my replica, I will disagree with my colleague Antičević about this section relating to forest land, and it is clear that it is forest land that is unprocessed or grown by initial or urban developmental older forest ingredients. So it was very clearly defined by former Article 57 and in this unchanged part of what it refers to, and it refers to that maquis, referring to forest land which means it is not in the function of the forest but primarily I would say here was once a vineyard and once an olive tree, and in time unfortunately it grew and I think it is extremely positive, and unfortunately I have to conclude it was when we started applying it in that part, and it is now translated into law. However, it is not true that there were words here related to the part that would not be cut down into the forest and that it was correct in the law. You're wrong fellows because the law makes it very clear that the multi-year plantations will be raised on forest land that has grown to the initial stages, etc., and as far as the entrepreneurial zones against which I am, I must say quite frankly and directly, they will be able to rise in the woods, and even those we are very proud of, in the forests that I would say 100 years old, and that is something that, unfortunately, if we open this little door, we will have, I'm sure, terrible problems. Read the law, I read it in detail and studied it in detail on the board. It will be if that's how the plans of local communities are determined and that's the fact. Now we can't predict how any local community will be determined in its spatial plan. I assure you that the easiest thing to do now is to buy private land and work entrepreneurship zones, however, are certain restrictions. Everyone has a forest in their area, you'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65439	Mr. Representative, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65440	Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65441	Next up is MP Niko Rebic. Here you go. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You have the right to reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65442	Thank you. I totally agree with all of this last thing you said to your colleague Pankretić, which concerns the presentation of colleagues from HDZ, so maybe you used it, but that's what it is. You used a replica of me to address HDZ representatives, so I'm asking you to tell them directly, I don't need to serve you as a communicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65443	Thank you very much. I'm asking nicely without throwing, without throwing in the benches. I see the imagination in the dictionary is quite good. Comrade Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65444	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I, when we adopted the Law on Forests last December in the debate, pointed out that the Law on Forests was to be passed much earlier than the end of the Homeland War, thinking primarily of economic reasons, because the Law on Forests of 1991 all unprocessed forest land that was being conducted as a general property of Croatia entered the country, and the Government gave the same to the management of the public enterprise of the Croatian Forests and thus many surfaces entered under the auspices of the Croatian Forests even though they were absolutely not forest land. So we have one situation that in the Republic of Croatia today we all talk about the protection of forests, but let's say if we compare thanks to this way in the book of unsuspecting land we have one situation to say in France 27% of the land is under the forest, and in Croatia more than 40% of the land is under forests, which is of course illogical. So, such a legal provision in times of war and transition... It was both possible and justified, but immediately after the end of the war it was visible that it became a brake for many development programmes of the entrepreneurial zone, vineyard plantings, orchards, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should also be pointed out, so it has not been a year since the adoption of the Law on Forests, several months, and we already have amendments and additions to the law which, of course, says that this Law has not fulfilled its task, has not given all those opportunities to develop entrepreneurship zones, plant new plantations and olives, because, of course, Article 51 of the Law does not well resolve property law relations and is now trying to do so, as well as the right to build up forest and forest land for the purposes of building a zone, municipal infrastructure and determines the type of spatial plan, i.e. another act on which the interest of the Republic of Croatia is determined. What needs to be highlighted by these amendments and the additions to the laws in the forests will only have full justification when it enables the user, i.e. in Article 5 of this Act. An entrepreneur in the zone to buy land on which to build a plant in the zone. In the opposite practice it showed, and we have been witnesses since 11 months 2003 when the state attorney's office changed the interpretation of the law in a way that units of local self-government couldn't be end-users of land in areas, and thus they couldn't sell land to entrepreneurs. In fact, by interpreting the law in the State's Attorney's Office, we have completely stopped all the construction and all the work in the entrepreneurship zones. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests leaves one width, now this Law and all possibilities exactly how one law should be prescribed, but the explanation of Article 5 of the amendment and the addition as things return to the old, or to the beginning, and that is what worries. In particular, the part of the reasoning of Article 5 which resolves property legal relations that, in accordance with the conclusion of the Commission on the property of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 8 February and in relation to the separation of entrepreneurship zones of the construction of municipal infrastructure facilities and other, property law relations will be resolved by the application of another legal institute rather than by transfer of ownership. If this is literally interpreted this way, then I am afraid that these proposed amendments to the Forest Law are practically challenging the continuation of the construction and construction of new zones. It is important to know that units of local self-government are the bearers of the activity of building entrepreneurship zones in all three stages of construction. In the first phase of building spatial plans of geodetic bases, urban plans. In the second phase of making investment-technical documentation and in the third management and maintenance on, in those zones. So all of this is made possible by the ultimate users of the local self-government unit. Until that moment, they're doing all the work. Only after the public tender for the purchase of building particles is the end-user defined and the infrastructure is started... The land price, which is normally significantly below the market, shall be the cost of spent assets, and what the entrepreneur pays is the construction of infrastructure connections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This model has been confirmed in the practice of the Split-Dalmatia County. A dozen entrepreneurship zones are being equipped communally. There were dozens of plants built, employed in these areas over a thousand and 500 workers. Here is the question of all the questions whether the entrepreneur will invest and the financial resources still own or credit on a foreign country. Based on past experiences, at least in our county, the answer is negative. It must be said that the model of real construction at least when our county has given no results. The only model that delivers results is a model in which the end users of the local self-government unit and can also point out that at least when it comes to our county there was no abuse and speculation with land, it buys cheap and sells expensive. So we haven't had a single case of abuse because it can be effectively protected by other means of law. If these changes and complements enable this model that can therefore make it possible for end-users to be units of local self-government, then I hold that they should have gone one step further when it comes to decentralisation and giving legal frameworks for local self-government to gain greater powers and property, to influence its development. Therefore, I will again propose an amendment to Article 51 which allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to exempt forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia from the forest-economic area and transfer ownership rights to local self-government units if it has allocated this land in its spatial plan to agricultural and economic activities. I think it would really be one step in strengthening local self-government to influence its own development. To conclude, if these changes really do add to the possibility that entrepreneurs in entrepreneurship areas buy land on which they build their plants, then it'll make sense. Otherwise, this law will soon be confirmed in practice, it will not live and we will again have amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65445	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is representative Jura Bitunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65446	Thank you. Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The forest law was passed in November 2005 and is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. However, the current interventions in the law itself, according to my judgment, are the result of the failure in the first order of the legal service or the legal sector in the ministry, the competent ministry and not the shortcomings and essential provisions of the law or the accession of the Ministry of Forestry to this problem. Looking at and observing this law on the position and management of forests, I think that the existing law has well defined the matter in question, it has complied with other laws of the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Hunting and other laws concerning the law in question. However, I must stress that the failures occurred first in Article 51 of the existing law, the applicable law, and I believe that forests or forest land in the way that it is defined when it comes to property-legal relations in the law should not be a limiting factor in the development of the economy. In this direction were significant reactions from our county of all units of local self-government regardless of what political option is in power, whether HDZ, SDP or someone third. And I believe that this reaction is justified and that these changes and additions are trying to get in the right way and find a way to develop an economy or entrepreneurial zone. It is irrefutable that only by transferring ownership rights to local self-government units and by further selling them through the Public Procurement Act to final investors and owners, so they can bring and obtain results from the economy's development. On the other hand, we need to know that the money obtained by selling land is invested exclusively and it is not enough in municipal equipment, in the municipal infrastructure, and this also means discharging the county budget and, above all, the state budget on the development of the economy and the development of working zones. Speculations mentioned by some colleagues and colleagues related to sales, I think they can be avoided. One of the mechanisms is the tax on unbuilt building land available to units of local self-government depending on whose area it is. I would certainly like to mention the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 25 November 2004 that the forest land is being transferred to units of local self-government at the price of one kuna per hectare. I believe that this conclusion of the government should continue to be valid because it is the only guarantee that the government's programme for the construction of entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia will be realised. As far as building rights are concerned, I believe it can be appropriate and appropriate only for the construction of municipal infrastructure facilities and possibly for some economic projects, buildings because of its nature or if they are located near the coastal belt. I will give my particular observations regarding Article 6 of the amendment and the addition of the law and the like. There he would sort of join the thinking of counterpart Arlovic. But I suggest something else. I believe that in Article 57 of the existing law behind the word: "electric lines" should stand "and other infrastructure objects", and this "and similar" to delete, or I don't think it's well defined because there can be something similar to things that don't have dots in themselves. I would certainly like to mention article 10 of the amendment and addition that has de facto blocked these 5.6 months of working on solving property-legal relations and work on working areas in local self-government units. I'll mention the neighboring town of Trill. That's why I bow to what Mr. Wolf said. I'm sorry this law didn't go through an emergency procedure because of the nature of matter on the one hand. And on the other hand, interventions in the existing law are not such a nature that they could not have been carried out through an emergency procedure. In any case, I support this proposal and I hope that the emergency procedure will already be at this session means in these 10, 15 days that we should have it before us and that we should adopt it and solve it, in turn, to contribute as representatives to solving certain problems and implementing the plans of units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65447	Thank you very much. There's one correction. Mr. Korenika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bitunjac obviously does not know the procedure enough when he says that the Law amending and supplementing the laws that we passed in November 2005 were by officials or officials or some administration in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and so on. That is incorrect, so I must say very incorrectly because as the first legislator of the law to the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a good reader. So she's the first person to be responsible. The second thing is that in the preparation and adoption of laws to the Croatian Parliament, it was also reviewed by the government's coordination and also by the government's Law Office. Obviously, the government has done its job very sloppyly, and I must admit that we MPs, especially those who voted in favour of amending the law, amending and supplementing the law in 2005. I don't think the SDP Club is the one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65449	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65450	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with a colleague from the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia cover 2 and a half million hectares, which means about 43% of the area. This information is very clear that the Republic of Croatia is rich in forests. And even internationally recognised is the fact that 95% of the forest area is natural. It is precisely because of these facts that our responsibility is even greater to protect the forest and to master it in the best possible way and most importantly to further restore and forest the unprocessed forest surface wherever possible. The proper way of management supports the biological balance but also meets international conventions that we are signatories. Such management requires a higher degree of expertise and significantly higher investment than modern methods by raising culture and plantation. The development of forestry in the context of European Union policy, the importance of forest eco-systems in the "quiotto" protocol and the increasing burden on various harmful factors give the forest policy a special dimension in which Croatia's forestry policy and our country's development strategy should be integrated. Functional changes within society, emerging socio-economic circumstances, the obligation to comply with the laws of the European Union and to novelise them due to a number of changes and additions over the past decade require amendments to the Law on Forests. It should be based on the conventional principle of forest management. With respect to the provisions, directives and conventions which we are signatories, and also to make our forestry and wood industry competitive on the demanding market of the developed world. So this means that the law should also assume the most favourable way of managing forests under the circumstances of long-awaited decentralisation, the development of wood industry, the restriction of nature protection, the expansion of the construction area to forest space and so on. That is why I consider it a precaution never enough to express the desire for Croatian forestry to become competitive on the foreign market. To achieve better results in free market conditions and so on and so on. So when we seek to achieve competitiveness with natural resources such as forests, then we must be very careful that the result does not go to harm natural resources or that sustainable management on market principles does not become a myth. I would like to say that in practice, we must find the right measure for market and sustainable so that we do not have to sacrifice the quality and quantity of our forest resources in the long term for short-term gains, and the resulting and resources of water and soil. And to go back to the proposed Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. It says it primarily addresses property-legal issues. Therefore, the amendment of Article 51 allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry, in the process of issuing forests and forest land for the purpose of building entrepreneurship zones, municipal infrastructure, roads, waterways, wastewater purifications, and so on, not only transfer ownership but also the right to build or other act on which it is believed that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is established but of course we must always bear in mind that the same can not be used for other interests and projects which would go to the damages of the forest. Because I agree that the establishment of entrepreneurship zones in forests should not be completely banned. But we must not put ourselves in a position to devastate the forest under the name of economic development. Because generally useful functions, the generally useful functions of the forest cannot be accurately calculated in monetary units as well as damages when the forest is irrevocably exploited. Due to the exceptional overall importance of forests and especially for maintaining the quality of soil and water quality, forest management must not be reduced to the level of goods for the free market. Because of the great diversity of plant and animal species as a result of the forest tradition over 150 years old, we must be set an example by which we take on an even greater burden of responsibility and protection of our natural forest resources. My colleagues and colleagues believe that we can turn this proposal into a second reading, thus removing any misunderstandings such as points mentioned in Article 51. Because that can be similar to the infrared structural objects, but not a similar point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65451	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ante Markov's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the amendment and addition of the Law on Forests is one of the most important topics when looking at exactly what the role is, so what is the scope of the Croatian forests? A colleague said that every time changes are made and some law is added that it means that the basic law was bad. If that were the case, then almost 99% of the law would be bad. Only the Privatisation Act would turn out to be good, so maybe it does, so there's also a precedent that it's not right to enjoy the role of changing and supplementing the evidence that something was wrong. There may also be evidence that something has simply experienced another form, that time has brought different needs of this society to refer to that area. So here I was going to tell my colleague Nikki that generalization is never good. It's always good to talk about matter, even if some say and unconsciously hit the core of the law. Better and unconscious than never. This Law on Forests adds to one feeling that when it is viewed what the Act on Forests really is and that it has an impact on the overall economy, on almost all units of local self-government, then it is a chapter that should be separately recorded by a week of discussion only on the subject. Because it's such a complex issue that's being silenced and it's usually said to belong to certain lobbys, so let's let them go or let's not mind them. And apparently when only this superficially and in principle opens that question from the quarry, of the interests of a variety of lobbies, of either those forest, or those who kill, or those who exploit, or those who try to get a piece of the country because this second one that is private owned is harder to get to it because it needs to be paid a fair price. And in forest land you know you can always get a little through service, a little through exorcism, a little through a favourable price to get to a favourable land, and then God dear space plans in 10 years can change things a little bit. Well, it doesn't have to serve a business industrial zone right now. It can serve business housing, etc. etc. What do I want to say? One vast space, one huge interest that represents definitely the primary national interest cannot be left in any alternative that can hurt that same interest. Therefore, I am in principle both in this and in all positions that have a deep national character that cannot be subject to extradition, that it cannot be sold, but that the only way to use, and I believe that if there are any such or similar rules in the world that through concession and long-term lease can be solved by anyone's need. There is no activity, no activity whose need cannot be solved by concession or long-term lease for a hundred years. But we do know that after those 100 years, since the circumstances that I've been talking about will change. Circumstances in local self-government will change, the needs of society will change. The spatial plans will change, the reasons for the use of individual zones will change, so people will change. Which is not better then, which is not more just then, which is not more acceptable in any way for all of us to avoid these traps that are often offered under this or that term. Termination when we want to sell it, so we say expropriation. The term when we want to give for a certain use under service, and in fact that service when it comes to quarrys how good it is and how bad it is. It's good because after the exploitation, it'll remain a society, a state. He can plant a fighter or, say, as these foresters plant, something's gonna happen. And it is bad that this usually results in lower compensation for owners, i.e. the state of the Croatian forest. So you're not sure if it's better to sell at a fair price, so at least you know you're something, so you're going to switch it to another location or leave it like this all the time. Of course I'm saying, I'd say in principle against selling everything that represents the most valuable treasure. Because like we said, neither did we buy it, nor do we have to sell it. We should leave it alone. He told a colleague to leave him in even better shape than we got him. That's not gonna work for us when it comes to the exploitation of mineral wealth. But there are good things. There are things that have gone in the right direction, that have produced results. Olive groves that happened in the areas where the Croatian forests were, where they show good direction of movement in which direction they should go. Of course, once again the question of the consistency of the spatial plans of local self-government and administration units with these same good projects is raised. Because these good projects can rest on any variant. You can also be a serious oliver, a serious entrepreneur in olivery in space that doesn't necessarily have to be yours. So you can have it in some 50-year lease. You can build on it all forms, i.e. those forms needed to load that space in the financial sense that are in your interest. And the intermediaries will assess what realistic possibilities these are. Thus, there is no problem in creating the economic relationship in which you will not put ownership in advance on the behalf of the user. Because once you put property at his disposal already he in the second decade of use will probably come up with the idea that it can do something better than that. Because unfortunately we live and find ourselves in the world, even in the way they are. And they often ask for and they cut in a law that we and with the best will to try to interpret them correctly, we don't find them. But those who deal with it, whose job it is. They have their own people in the ministries regardless of whose government they were, and then they add these famous marks, words, scholarships, preparations that serve precisely those speculators who, on the basis of that, say that what we've been saying here isn't exactly how things can be interpreted differently. And that is why, and I believe that we all want to be as responsible as possible when it comes to such topics as today, and the theme is the forest and forest law, that any possibility should be avoided. And this first reading is welcome, good thing it's not urgent, to think about avoiding any possibility that someone, let's just call it a prank. So let's not allow any extradition, let's not allow any sales, but let's organize the entire sector to say, the public sector on the principle of concession, on the principle of rent, on the principle of the fact that something represents a great value for the investor, an even greater value for us, represents an even greater value for generations that will come behind us. And economic conditions are not dependent and are not directly related to ownership or not ownership. They are related to the fact that there are conditions, whether society has secured these conditions and whether there is a normal and marketable fair game in a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65453	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65454	Thank you. Well, colleague Markov, I didn't say that amending and supplementing the law means it's a bad law. What I said was that it hasn't been six months since the Law on the Forests, and we already have amendments and additions to the law. And that means only one thing, that we didn't achieve the goal we wanted to achieve by this law, and that's what I was saying about entrepreneurship zones. Therefore, the construction of the plant has not been achieved, nor has economic recovery been achieved, nor has employment been achieved. But on the contrary, with this law, we have put an end to all this. I think this law really needs to go, so, of course, we take care of the woods. But I'm saying, this is about unprocessed land, and this law has to give rise to the right that people who build plants in entrepreneurship zones will be owners, because no one will invest their resources on other people's land. That's the point of my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65455	Answer, Mr. Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65456	Oh, my colleague Niko, this isn't about unprocessed land when it comes to entrepreneurship zones. When it comes to other cultures, it's about unprocessed land. But let's go back to what I wanted to fix. I've corrected the principle. And the principle says that almost every law experiences its changes almost explicitly and complements its novels because they are the result of life. The law is the same living matter and she lives the way a man lives. It matures, clearly someone more someone less, but so are the laws. I just said it was so cosmetic that he at least revived the Privatization Act. And usually he's mentioned most of the time. In that context, I didn't want to get into the metrics of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65457	Thank you. Replica also, Mr. Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65458	Thank you very much. I'll use the replica to say some more things that my colleague Markov didn't even mention. I hope he doesn't take offense as Mrs. Anticevic and leave, no. I must stress that in this part of it, which is extremely important to me, and so far I would say the decidently mentioned, is that I don't see why the Minister of Agriculture and why someone doesn't have the right to trust in this part of it that for my service to exploit mineral raw materials, we transfer the whole process to this part of the Committee for the Management of State Property. What does that mean? I have to be honest with you there were attempts once before the former government, it didn't work out. Because I don't believe it, I was a member of that commission. There are several ministers, more people who are not closely tied to the forest profession, are not responsible in that section and easily open a series of exploitation fields. It can be devastated, that service is destroyed, the forest is destroyed, and then who is glad, who is not. There is one regrettable lack of time, an excellent example of how to care for forest land and how to combine forest and agricultural land care. Not only to think about it as Niko, counterpart Niko Rebic said that the units of local self-government are doing it, but to raise it to the state level. And that's how you do it in Australia. So when the forest doesn't go they plant it, it's agricultural land. And when agricultural land unfortunately has an excess of agricultural products then it becomes a forest. But it's managed from one level with the national wealth that I think is extremely important. And here we do it segmentally. It is not elaborated in detail, and I am glad that this Parliament has accepted that it is going in two readings, although we have proposed this on the committee to the parent board and it has not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65459	Thank you. Mr. Markov's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65460	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65461	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65462	You're a colleague of Markov's quite right when you say that changing a law doesn't automatically mean that the basic law is bad. But if the basic law is good, and yet the amendments are proposed, it means that no changes are valid. And that's exactly this classic case. If one law that's good changes within six months, not six months, then I can't, there's no reason why you've changed the economic conditions in six months so much that the government has now seen that it needs to change the law. No, nothing happened in six months. By the way, six years ago when the law was passed, those who would like to profit in the woods did not report to the government. And now that they've heard from you, they need to be taken care of. As if we didn't have enough profits in Croatia, and it was as if in Croatia it wasn't passed during the first HDZ administration enough laws that favoured the profiteers, but with this practice we continue to continue. Six months ago, if this had been very good, I guess the government would have remembered to install it in there. Well, of course that's not good. Well, that's clear to the government and to the proposer and the public and to all those in the Parliament. And it's defended by some kind of nebulism, completely incomprehensible. There's a profit to be made. We need to make it possible for someone to be a profiter tomorrow. And that's why these poor legal changes to good basic law are being proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65463	And what do you say then for changes to the Constitution within 4 months twice?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65464	It's a replica of the Vice-President of the Parliament, or what is it, where does it say in the Rules of Procedure? What are you picking up? What are you picking up? Based on what? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65465	Let me explain your principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65466	Who asked you for an opinion?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65467	You're principled, you're talking about changing the law, and you've changed the Constitution within four months.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65468	But who asked you to explain anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65469	So I'm giving it away, because we have a right to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65470	What do you explain? My replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65471	And what are you running from that fact that the Constitution has been changed in four months?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65472	Stick to the Rules of Procedure! Stick to the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65473	I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure and I didn't give you my word. I didn't give you my word, you can't speak from the bench and don't terrorize the Parliament here all the time. Answer, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65474	Thank you very much. Sometimes when the law is too good, his novel comes. Why? Well, probably because it just confirms the rule when it's extremely bad for someone else, it's good for the other guy. So our problem is that constantly, but the task of this Parliament is to recognize what is good and what is bad and to fight exactly to be dissatisfied with those who felt that their sole right is to be satisfied. Our role is to create as many dissatisfied individuals as possible, but to make citizens feel in our discussions that we speak in the interest of general, public, not particular, not individual. So all of what I was saying by correcting the allegations, I just wanted to point out that our laws are often used by those who think there is space in the laws to use them in the way they are used. And it should be warned and not political debates should be conducted but content debates in which everyone who thinks they have more right than anyone else should be prevented.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65475	Thank you very much. Now we'd end the debate and continue at 15.00 hours. The first is Mr. Tomislav Tomic. Thank you very much. It's the 13th 34th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65476	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session and the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65477	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary, Assistant. Here is the unquestionable law that came into force 6 months ago for the basic intensity of the protection of forests and forest land as good for the Republic of Croatia, which represents a great wealth of the Republic of Croatia. The forest law foresees or creates conditions for improving and managing forests which are approximately 2 and a half million hectares in Croatia, or 43% of the state's surface, as well as forests owned by the state and in private ownership and forestry really have an important role and place in the economy of the Republic of Croatia and from the point of view of the value of wood, as well as parallel products. The proper management of forests can increase the production of goods and services, thereby creating jobs and income, and added value. The proper management primarily involves the translation of the protected forests into the forests of high breeding form and the new deforestation on non-region forest land that has almost 400 000 hectares in Croatia and precisely those 400 000 hectares to correct the holding, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests to create conditions for the operational creation of conditions for service, for the establishment of infrastructure, for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and the same thing that makes me happy in this law is a proposal for entrepreneurship zones to be an integral part of the law and that conditions can be created for business zones as well. That the service in the last few years has proved justified in raising and fellow Pankretic has also said on which forest land there is also a service and which, as well as the law of Article 57, is spoken, where, on which. So, on unprocessed forest land and land overgrown by the initial or degradation development stages of forest ingredients. I think the best indicator when it goes into the golden valley of Požega towards Papuk and when you see those new vineyards, a few thousand acres of new vineyards exactly in that degraded forest area through the Government programme, which has so far covered about 6300 hectares of forest or that degraded land, and also olive groves that are constantly being raised through that programme, and I think that it is also in some way the right, proper availability and real care of forests. It says there are 2 and a half million hectares of Croatian forests in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's 400,000 ha of degraded forest next to the forest. I think this is also the right thing to do in some way to properly and well manage and preserve and preserve national wealth, and also because of these everyday changes and new requirements that are coming, we have to adapt in some way and adapt to new conditions and agree with speakers who have said that we really do not have to be slaves to certain legal acts, but simply in order to improve our lives in our areas to behave accordingly. As far as entrepreneurship zones are concerned, not only entrepreneurship zones, but forest land also burdens other programmes, and entrepreneurship zones simply cannot be viewed by the Forest Act alone, but also by other ministries. And also, here gives me courage to this condition a detailed urban plan from a spatial plan. So it's not, it's not standing, and the fact that entrepreneurship zones are going to be built in the woods, that it's going to be, I don't know how many of the settlements, but just every village has its own border. Each municipality or city plans its own entrepreneurship zone, not itself, but plans it along with the Ministry of Economy. I don't know if there are any cities or municipalities that work independently in entrepreneurship zones, but together with the Ministry of Economy and here's those 400 planned entrepreneurship zones, all of them are located near the meaning of the construction area, near the infrastructure, and so if it's run as forest land, we really need to simplify the procedure and exactly the intensity of these changes and the addition that these lagging objects come into order as soon as possible and that in some way we properly manage the total resources, and not only do we narrow down to forests and the preservation of forests. Because I'm saying, 43% of the surface is under the woods and surely with these, with entrepreneurship zones, we don't have much... So we don't know how many hundreds of acres to take, but this very, very property legal relationship, because in many municipalities and cities there are still grantines and cadastres from 1862, from 1910, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A lot of municipalities and cities still don't have a spatial plan and so I say this, this condition to create a detailed urban plan for the entrepreneurial zone in any case stands, and then the municipalities or the city and the county assembly, and also the ministry if they're all not to say "majority," then we can really expect it to be in the middle of Spačva entrepreneurship zone, which is certainly not going to be. In this regard, however, my personal view is that for entrepreneurship zones here it states in the explanation of Article 5 that the Government can separate certain forests or forest land from the forest of the economic area and transfer ownership rights to another legal or natural person or establish the right to build. I personally think that for entrepreneurship zones, in any case, it is necessary to transfer ownership rights and ensure that those people who will work in the entrepreneurship zone are able to employ people to have it in real terms and in the right sense in their own possession, and the right to build has room to provide for other infrastructure facilities, whether these are telecommunications columns, wind power plants or electric pillars, etc. I don't think the right to build should be in the entrepreneurship zone, but to provide the entrepreneur with his property because exactly the entrepreneurial zone, the new jobs, it's certainly a guarantee that he should be owned, no right to build. Because I'm saying, from that right of construction tomorrow, we're going to come to agricultural land and operational programmes of beef, pig farming, etc. And he's always the right entrepreneur who is, who is really a serious entrepreneur, and there's no entrepreneurial zone without the right program, no idea solution, no real intention of building. Then he needs to make sure he has property on it. Also, the right to build for certain areas in the development of tourism should be ensured as mentioned in the ski course. There are programmes in Slavonia where tourism will develop. So the right to build in these parts should in any case remain, and this in the entrepreneurship zones, in any case, I advocate that it be concrete and real property. Here in the end, anyway, the law was recently passed. I don't mind changes and additions. It is a matter of time and circumstances how much longer we will go through the other programmes that we need to change the program, and these changes and additions of the programme are going in the right direction anyway. And here, until the second reading, I believe that the ministry gentlemen of this couple of legal mistakes will correct it and it will not be similar, etc., but will simply harmonize. If something is missing from these wind power plants, etc., etc. Surely there are other legal options whether directly to the Government to correct it in walking. However, I think that both in reason and in the proposal to amend that everything that requires the right of service or the right to build or property is approximately covered. So these technical things need to be fixed. And the final draft law amending and supplementing the forest law is certainly fine. It's a shame it's not going to be an emergency reading that we can make amendments, because in some ways it's certainly a situation that 15 and 30 days means a lot, especially for situations like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65478	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65479	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I don't agree that this is a small law and that there are little changes. Are we gonna get that naked to see what that means? In Article 51, that is, Article 5, the Croatian Parliament has already transferred to the Government the decision on what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the current Law on Forests. And that ex-lege, which according to the Constitution has no right. I'll tell you now. In Article 51 of the current Article 5, it is considered that there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia if the forest or forest land is to be set aside for purposes, and now there is logic here, in order to mark the site of the local tombs of the victims of the Homeland War, for the purposes of the defence facilities of the Republic of Croatia and this first indent, the implementation of the detailed plan of the arrangement, or act adopted on the basis of documents of the spatial arrangement issued under a special regulation. And now the government is asking us for something else, gentlemen of the House of Representatives, please give up your right under Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says: "The law determines the way in which goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia can be used, the powers of their rights and the owners, and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to.". So, the interest of the Republic of Croatia, what is decided by the Croatian Parliament is determined only by law, only by law. There's no other act planned. That is why the government has already brought us into the game in the first law to be considered, it has reasons and justifications, because it is about the objects they really have, it could be said a priority interest of the Republic of Croatia, which I have already read. What is the government asking of us now? The government only changes that the right to build will be established, and it is said from the explanation that it is zones, entrepreneurship, as explained in the explanation, it even states the subject under which the number is being seduced, which motivates the change. Well, that explains it. The government says gentlemen give us a Bianca that we determine what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is, because on the basis of a detailed plan of regulation, which does not bring the Croatian Parliament, but even worse, says another act adopted on the basis of a document of spatial regulation issued under special regulations. This basically means that the municipality, or no municipalities, will bring this right, but the county, will bring a building permit. It's an act based on which we're going to say it's a state interest. That this is thus showing paragraph 5, so it changes, instead of being an act of business, the legislator now says no. And it is therefore certain that the Government wants us to tell you to give up your right to determine what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is when it comes to an entrepreneurial zone, the construction of a windmill or another, let us do it in cities and municipalities. We have no right to do so as long as this constitution exists here. Why? It's a peach we can't control. We can't control when in the spatial plan any of the municipalities of any city, and this is an act that provides for a part of the land and, or forests, to be converted into building land. And then when you get the concession to build it on the basis of the right to build it, then in a few years it'll buy itself out. That's the scenario this law provides. If we want to, then let us give the Government the authority by law that it determines what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is. That it determines what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is, rather than hiding behind the principle of a law that does not speak about it. This law as a foll addresses the issue of forest protection, but de facto it removes Parliament's right to determine what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the protection of land and forest. In such circumstances, in such circumstances, the question is then also the hierarchy of the regulations that we are talking about. If the Spatial Planning Act foresees that these acts will implement the layout of space, and the acts on urban planning that will arrange this space. Then why is the Law on the Forests now predicting that what is interesting to someone will be attached to the small door of forest land and forests? So such a scenario is to be read from this bill. Life may indeed require regulation or development of municipalities and cities through business, construction of business zones. But then let's write it so that we know who's responsible for it. If business zones have to be opened then let the spatial plans provide for it, let the procedure of the Law on Spatial Planning be implemented, let the consent of the Ministry in charge of such matters or some Government, you suggest the law to transfer to the Government for such cases that it determines the interest of the Republic of Croatia and we will have clean relations with each other, but then clean hands. It is truly unacceptable to push through a small door a dangerous thing to preserve the interests of the Republic of Croatia, in other words, that the protection of the forest is done in the way the law predicted. And one more thing. In the countries of the European Union, forest land used for other purposes will be replaced with other land to be forested. It's a fundamental rule that stands out. Now if we won't do it, then we can say we won't. We have the right to say that we will not say so, but then let us not refer to the Nature Protection Act, Croatian Law, Croatian Nature Protection Act, and then we would be open to living or sustainable development, so we would say in areas where there is not enough space, building land and building space we will have to reduce some parameters on nature protection, forest protection and we will have this clear attitude. This way I don't think we have the right to simply send it to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65480	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Raven, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So starting with Article 1. The forest law where forests and forest land are well of interest for the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection, I would like first of all to commend the fact that you have accepted or have accepted that this amendment and supplement of the Law goes into two readings. It's good from a series of discussions is said which reserves or fences us especially from SDP's club according to changes and additions to this law. What is fundamentally changing has already been said a number of times, but I will, in the shortest possible terms, only or repeat what has already been said. Article 17 is replaced by the following: In addition to all those activities in the first plan, Article 37 introduces an entrepreneurial zone, so that it gets quite different and more power because it is said that spatial planning documents can be designed to build a building in the forest or on forest land for the needs of entrepreneurship zones, infrastructures and then everything else. In Article 51, this is all further emphasized, with an additional explanation that it is going into a micro position, so it goes to a cadastral particle, it is going to need to draw up a detailed plan of arrangement and it is said that this is now an administrative act, so a decision that will cover this solution. Article 57 of the Exploitation Service or responsibilities is slightly specified and what is most important in Article 11 is said that the law enters into force on the very day of adoption, as our President, our Vice-President Mato Arlović, said on behalf of the club, in a conflict with Article 89. The Constitution. Because we haven't really heard a single objective reason why it's going in such a hurry. I understand as well as most of my colleagues and colleagues who aim to pass this law. I can also understand the reasons, the need to allow units of local self-government faster economic development, to bring such legal solutions to a small door or through a small door to be precise which will allow for a quality economic step or use of the comparative advantages of individual units of local self-government. But I cannot understand the method, the way this law is changed, or how it comes to the end. This law is based on consequences, not on the causes that preceded this state, and above all on the lack of compliance of economic foundations with the real situation on the ground. The law accurately states that, that the forest economic area is a functional unit for which sustainable management, planning and direction of forest development and forest land is determined regardless of ownership and divided into economic units. Here the fundamental question arises is whether all the land that has entered the forest area, i.e. the forest base, is indeed the forest land from which the highest profit can be derived. The fact, and that seems to me to be the point of changing this law that it isn't. It is likely that if not today, government representatives will respond in a second reading to these questions, which is why it is going to change the law when the existing legislation allows the government, the resolution ministry to change the areas, the forest-economic areas and to exclude those cadastrian particles from being quite precise, or those properties that might be better exploited for other purposes, either the entrepreneurial zone or I don't know something third. This is made possible by the existing Article 15, 20, 21, 22, in which I will only specify one part. Article 21 states that if, during the implementation of the forest-economic plans, the facts and circumstances on which their provisions are based, their extraordinary audit must be carried out both in the manner and in the procedure prescribed for their approval. Furthermore, Article 22 states very precisely in paragraph 1 that forest-economic plans, their renewal or revision are approved by the Ministry for forests owned by the Republic of Croatia, and on the proposal of a commercial society, and on a proposal from the forest owner to the forest advisory service. The Article 5 of the same article states that the company and the forest advisory service are obliged to draw up forest-economic plans and to renovate and revise them regularly. If these articles of the Law had been followed, it would not have been necessary to amend Article 51 and the entrepreneurship zones in this way but rather on the basis of other legislation, in particular the Law on Agricultural Land, if so it were to be excluded from the forest base, that land would probably be agricultural land, or unprocessed building land, and would have been re-emerged by the agricultural land of the local self-government unit and the owners, but also by the restoring ministry, to make a decision on the availability, and to install them in spatial and planning documents. This would be interesting to hear, and I think that the answer is expected by our citizens as well as by all of us who have discussed this Law and have shown, again I say, my reserve, it would be interesting to hear how many entrepreneurship zones are now waiting for a change or amendment of this Law and its urgent entry into force. What are those areas that if we were to really take care of forest land, which I believe is a basic task, which should be put into operation in return. So find some equivalent to make the most of the resources that this country has. And forest land must be one of the great resources. So we expect that, at the next reading, we will get answers to these questions, which is why so much speed and which is why other steps, or other methods, were not going to lead to a final solution for that old and "wolf being full, but also sheep in number". We are speaking here all in favor of our citizens but taking care of the need for development and the even development of all units of local self-government. Looking through the prism of amending and supplementing this Act, I'm not sure that if a law like this is passed, it will actively confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65482	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65483	Dear Mr. President, it would be interesting to hear how many really entrepreneurial zones are waiting in the municipalities and cities that are being talked about today, waiting for this issue to be resolved in this way. Why am I saying that? I am speaking because similar situations were related to the donation of valuable military properties, military in Croatia where the same municipalities and cities said they needed it for entrepreneurial zones. And in the end, the state, or government, listened to their request, donated, and they sold it. They sold it further without going to those entrepreneurial zones and everything else. I think it's the Varazdin case. We have a lot of cases like that. Well, then when you're going with a project like that, you're going to say it exactly, but not sell it. It's the easiest thing to sell. And that, today was a debate, says a real price. Whatever the real price of this sale goes, it's just an unreal price, and the state twice loses to sell for the bade and no more ownership on that part, nor can it affect what and how it's going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65484	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of the Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65485	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, dear colleague Kovacevic has expressed and I agree completely with his way of thinking and with him when he expects most of us to really get an answer on the essential elements that ultimately determine our decision for or against this Law. I didn't repeat what my predecessors said, if it's the happiest solution, but when it comes to entrepreneurship, it's transferred to property by automation. Or, by other methods, the concession that I hold more correct, comes to meet all entrepreneurs, meets the needs of the local self-government unit, and on the other hand protects the resource. A few months have passed since we passed this Law, and I believe that it is not so important or so radically altered relations that motivated the Proposer to go with this kind of amendment and supplementation of the Law, and that we have not received any basic knowledge of what this ultimately means for most of our citizens, or units of local self-government. I really expect to get answers to these questions, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65486	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Herman Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here at the end of this several-hour discussion I can tell you that we as a foresteer are glad to have shown this interest in the protection and use of forests and forest land. And I can confirm that this Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the forest profession, will continue to care for it in the best possible and quality way, and this is the 250-year anniversary of the forest profession in the Republic of Croatia. It means that the foresters, as a profession so far, have taken care of all of our space and the management of space. Today, there have been a number of stories in various articles that suggest changes. I can tell you that there are absolutely no hidden intentions here by amending these laws that could be planted around forests and forest land. So there's no possibility of alienation, there's no possibility of devastation, there's no fear that the woods will disappear. That's what he's kind of worried about today through these discussions. Now all of a sudden, the woods are gonna start to disappear, they're gonna be gone. This is absolutely these changes, especially these two articles that are most important, that's Articles 51 and 57, they don't touch anywhere and they're not mentioned anywhere. Even here is the existing Law in Articles 37, paragraphs 2 and 4, which tells exactly what is being built in the forest and how it can even be built in the forest. It is true that the document of spatial arrangement plans what can be built on forest and forest land, in which way, but here, you should read a little bit to the end. But only if, due to technical or economic conditions, it is not possible to plan outside the forest, or forest land. So, first of all, it is always planned to build some buildings that, if they can be built elsewhere, do not come to the forest and forest land, and also item 4 about spatial plans and counties and the City of Zagreb, municipalities and other cities are specifically talking about the process of adopting these spatial plans, so that all the spatial plans adopted under this Act come to the Ministry of Forestry, Agriculture and Water Economy, exactly and give an opinion on these spatial plans. So there's one procedure that's to be respected, and if it's to be respected, I think these are some kind of fears and they're just not founded. There was a question of why you're fast now, etc. The basic intensity was around raising several years of plantations, meaning olive trees and a smaller part of the vineyard. So far, the government's decision has offered these 6 thousand and 300 hectares to raise years of damages. The interest is shown for about 3,000 hectares of people and a large number of documents, i.e. those items are in high degree of completeness, and we are simply with here little and I can tell by our indifference when we have made this law a little tied hands because we should, we put the service in Article 51, and for the service we need to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia, so we need a spatial plan and the rest, and for some of the services, here in particular and for those multi-annual plantations it is simply not possible to bring, determine interest or to grow... cattle or savages, so it's not possible to predict in some kind of spatial plan, so here we were a little bit, a little bit like that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a simple operational part of the implementation of this Act braked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why we wanted with these two, or three articles simply this Law... operationally move that people, that's where you mentioned citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that the most citizens, especially Dalmatia, Istria, have the most questions, i.e. people who would plant some of these olives in order to have as many hectares as can be expected from us for the European Union. That's enough, I'm talking about it. For these concrete suggestions, we will draw out what should be drawn out and try to comply with this Law for a second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65488	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Forests, first reading I give to the vote the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Forests is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 76 for, 5 abstentions, 13 against, with the majority a proposed conclusion was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65491	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the Government's promise, the Government here proposes to implement a radical change in the electoral system mostly at local level in Croatia and proposes to introduce a direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, holding that this will also bring democracy closer and stronger at the lowest levels of the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. This Law is adopted in regular procedure, the first reading has passed, the numerous observations made in the first reading have been incorporated into the text of this Law, and before us is the Final Proposal of the Law, which we can say is a consensus of a solution that wants to settle this issue. This Law of course provides for an application procedure, it provides for a provision that candidates who are expected to run for mayor, deputy mayor or municipal chief and deputy, and thus have to have a residence registered for at least 6 months in the local self-government unit for which they are being run to avoid the elections immediately before the transfer and registration of their residence where they are otherwise not resident. The law, further, prescribes the incompatibility of certain duties with the duty of mayor, of course respecting the tradition so far allows for the possibility of running, but if the candidate is elected he will have to leave another duty which is incompatible with the duty of the municipal mayor, mayor or mayor, or his deputy. The government has not resorted to the decision to declare itself incompatible with the duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, it leaves it to political players to organise, by their statutes or by their acts, how and who they will run for office. This law provides that candidates can propose political parties or voters, it is necessary to collect the legally prescribed number of signatures to the candidate, support for the candidacy, of course from large differences in the number of residents and the number of voters in Croatian units of local self-government. The range of necessary signatures range from 50 signatures for the municipal chief in the municipality to a thousand inhabitants, up to 5,000 voters for the mayor of the City of Zagreb. The election process itself is relatively simple, the majority system is applied in a way that if the candidate in the first election round achieves more than 50% of the voters who went to the polls it becomes the electoral winner and the elections end in the local unit, however, if no candidate wins those 50% of the votes cast in the elections in 14 days, and in the second round the candidates who got the two candidates who received the highest number of votes. If the re-elections happen which is unlikely, but such a situation is possible for both candidates to get the same number of votes, then the third round of elections is foreseen, we hope that it will not be needed. The bodies for the implementation of the elections are provided for by this Act, with the explicit provision that, in the regular local elections, elections for members of the representative bodies of local self-government and regional self-government and mayors, the municipal chiefs are actually conducting the same bodies in order to avoid duplication. This Law regulates the conduct of the elections itself, determines the results of the vote, and we have a large number of articles that we believe in in a quality way governing the rights and duties of observers. In fact, the elections are the highlight of democracy, the elections are attended by a number of our citizens and there are many interested governments and NGOs, and even the participants themselves have the right to verify the legality and honesty of the elections to propose observers, but in order to avoid confusion about their role we have set out in detail by following the mandatory instructions of the National Election Commission. The law also provides for the provision of funds for election promotion, guarantees candidates who hold more than 10% of the vote that the local self-government units' budget will determine the cost of the election promotion they had in the campaign. The height will, of course, be determined by the government and no later than 20 days before the election. It is time for the local elections to settle the issue of insurance for election promotion. Therefore, in several articles, the law prohibits all of which from receiving donations in money and other means and services, for example from foreign countries, political parties, other countries, from companies owned by the state and local self-government units, also prescribes that I do not take away valuable time from the debate. Anyway, we've set out in detail the restrictions on fundraising for the election promotion. We want to make these funds transparent. Therefore, there is a obligation to report to the competent electoral commission the amount of funds and resources for the electoral promotion both before the end of the election process and the sources of funds, and after the implementation of the elections themselves, when these costs are known. This law also regulates the protection of electoral law and prescribes penalties for violations of electoral silence, they are equal to those already prescribed by the Law on the selection of members of the representative body. The government discussed the model of relations between the mayor and the municipal chief and mayors who are directly elected and equally directly elected representative body and decided that a possible conflict, possible political conflict, is being resolved by those who have entrusted the mandate. He therefore proposed amendments to this law that would remove the possibility for the government to resolve the mayor and the municipal chief from any case and leave the possible political conflict, possible mistrust in the mayor to resolve voters in the referendum. It's our commitment to what we have spoken publicly. And these are the solutions contained in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was delivered to the Union of Cities and Municipalities, the county community prior to reference to the legislative procedure. Namely, by respecting the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we discuss laws concerning local self-government with those concerned, with representatives and national associations of local and regional units of local self-government and we did not refer it to the procedure because we are awaiting the fate of this law. It's all about the day this law was passed. When this law is passed then it is proof that a new model has been adopted and a whole series of laws that must be adapted to this model will be found before you very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65492	Thank you. The Legislative Committee, for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, local and regional self-government do not intend to make oral reports available. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, on behalf of the club, respected deputy vice president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65493	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! You see, the secretary of state says we're waiting for the fate of this law and when it's passed, it's proof that a new model has been adopted. It's the other way around. Then it is not at all proof that a new model has been adopted but actually this law cannot be passed until the new model is established. A new model of local and regional self-government can and should be established with basic law, with basic law, with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. And just from the fact that this law is being discussed in a second reading and proposed to pass without that law, without a fundamental law, it actually results in a whole series of misunderstandings and illogicalities that bother itself. What is indisputable to us in the SDP Club is that we should support the idea of direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb, however, the very implementation of the bill itself is actually questionable to us, it could be said bad and that is more so if the fact relating to the fundamental law is not seen. And this is once again a new nomotechnical practice where with lex specialis, this should be like a lex specialis compared to the basic law, it suggests that the Law on the System of Local Self-Government will resolve one of the issues that is related to the Election Law rather than being completely vice versa. Therefore, it is obvious that this cannot go on because if only to read the argument of the Government which speaks about the proposed amendments where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is said among other things, so allow me to continue, it will regulate the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, it is discussed in the Union of the Association of Cities and Associations of the municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, etc. You know, I absolutely support the European Charter, and I absolutely support that the government is discussing and cooperating with associations, including associations of the Union of Cities and municipalities, but it is not logical that they would be discussing the fundamental law that we should decide before then, or at least to decide together with this bill, and it is least unusual that this law would settle the issue of how eventually the mayor, the mayor, the mayor and the mayor would be resolved. The third thing we have to say is what we're proposing. We propose that this bill be discussed eventually or that at some point the debate on this bill should be terminated, so that it should continue when the basic law comes into the procedure or possibly to be discussed, but certainly not to vote on it until we have a final proposal for a law on the system of local and regional self-government that we need to see actually how a fundamental question of relations between the mayor and the executive authority on one side and the city council, or the municipal council on the other. Because actually, that's the key questions. Another important issue will be how the issue of property relations, the management of the municipality's property, or the city's. The third question, the staff issue of resolving relations inside, the functioning of local administrations in local self-government, and certainly there are issues related to law enforcement, labour law and business to be taken into account. Fourthly, we believe that in one part of this law, I say again the principled remark is unsettled, because even though some questions about funding are who can and how can finance a pre-election campaign touched actually the key issues are not and these issues need to be further elaborated here. They have not even been touched to the level that this was elaborated in the law on the election of the President of the Republic regarding the financing of its election campaign, i.e. the financing of the election campaign of the candidate of the President of the Republic. In such a situation, we put this principled remark immediately and now allow the implementation itself is the proposal for the text of the law itself. We have a whole series on one side of the remarks, on the other hand you might say questions that simply require an answer before we can choose to vote in favour of this bill. For example, Article 2 states that municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors of the City of Zagreb have deputies who choose together and at the same time in the same procedure as the mayor himself. Now the question is, you actually have two bodies, the mayor and his deputy who choose from the same body in the same way and according to the same procedure. So, from the citizens, what is their own activity? What is the part of the job that is performed exclusively by the deputy and which part of the job the mayor does not have. But it turns out that the deputy is doing what the mayor has to do with him. Under which right when he does not have the mayor's office, he has the original will of the electoral body. These are very serious issues and there is, in fact, an immediate parallel system that is simply not good, especially if it is given the fact that candidates for mayor and deputy mayor will normally not be from the same party. That's not how they're gonna be chosen. In such a situation, not only do parallel systems open up, but conflict situations are opened, and instead of solving problems and relationships that are important for deciding on direct interests and needs of citizens, it will actually happen that these two leaders will be constantly in conflict situations in the nature of things, among other things, because of the diversity of political options they belong to and represent. It is therefore proposed that Article 4 be the least registered place of residence 6 months before the vote is called. And what you can actually see in six months. Not even the one-year budget of the local self-government unit can be seen. Therefore, the minimum required should be at least one year, if we want to get candidates belonging to that local self-government unit on the one hand and on the other hand, to avoid the possibility of manipulation by reporting and checking out the residence that should be provided in that section. In Article 5, the question arises here, in fact, when the term of office ceases, when it expires. It says here that early elections last until the day of the official election results. And what's behind that? Since the announcement of the official election results, there has been some time since the extraordinary elections to the Council's constitution. What's in this situation? Who is in this time of government, which is who manages local affairs. Who's responsible for certain business, and the Commissioner, as you know, doesn't. Therefore, it is clear that there is also something to be done, and in this respect we need to be quite clear that this should be precise, elaborated. This isn't just a nomo technical remark. It's actually about the content of the remark. Article 8 shall apply from the date of its adoption, 60 days from the date of its decision. What's that? What court decisions? Is that a first degree or a rightful one? It would probably have to be a final court decision, and at the same time the question arises if the mandate ends the Deputy Government of the Republic of Croatia will be appointed by the Commissioner. Now, you see, this is where the Secretary of State said that this issue would be resolved by a referendum. That's not true. It's just not true. One thing's said, the other's written. The government's view on the reasons for the amendment says the issue will be regulated by the Law on a system of local, regional self-government. How this will be resolved will we see, but what is absolutely certain is totally unacceptable to this solution that has now been offered so that the Government can resolve the persons to whom the mandate stands on the one hand and on the other hand, so that the Government can appoint the Deputy Government a Commissioner. You know, that question opens quite seriously, which is if or the Commissioner practically changes relations within the council. Because you have a situation, you had a mayor. He's for a reason I don't know which one he stopped performing his post. He's doing his job as a deputy, and then he stops, and now he says the government will appoint. He can't name it. He can't name it, because that's the moment when the government is in the nature of the relationship between the subordination of more political power. It's an incursion in the constitution forbidden the right of local self-government, and there's now a question of something else. Is that where legal automation should be introduced? We, I personally believe our club should be introduced here by legal automation and that, until the election is called and held, the president may perform such a function as the President of the Council. Extraordinary, but of course here it needs to be further restricted by this council president that he only performs those technical tasks that are necessary for the local self-government unit to function. The government shouldn't be doing this part. In fact, Article 9 raises the most serious issue, as well as the issue of compliance and non-compliance with functions. We believe that the representative, councilor, then the question, both in the city and municipal council, the county council, and in particular the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, and their deputies, are actually functions that are incompatible and cannot and must not be matched, and therefore simply at the same time someone cannot be and perform both or more of these functions. Why? Because by the nature of things, if we have the Law of Conflict of Interest, then we didn't want everything until then to say that there is a balancing fund for local self-government, we have to admit that these persons enter and may enter into conflict of interest as representatives and at the same time mayors or as representative councilmen... local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the first question that per se implies we cannot, in fact, be conscious of the other law that we have. That's number one. Number two. Local self-government is a very serious job that requires the full engagement of a man as well as of course a state-level job in the Croatian Parliament. In such a situation should definitely separate these functions and allow people to perform their functions maximumly, their jobs not only from the title of wearing functions but also from the title of working-functional performance so that they can actually exercise trust and exercise the trust that... gave the electoral body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context, of course, an additional leprosy is opened that leaders not only of companies owned or mostly owned by units of local self-government but also of state-owned enterprises, so if you want the leaders of organisations and administrative organisations that have public authority, they could not at the same time be councilors, mayors and mayors. That doesn't mean they can't be candidates. Candidates may be, but if elected, they must leave one of the functions behind, and eventually identify themselves to the other for which they will accept. Of course, the question is also raised in Article 12 as it is, because when the Government of the Republic of Croatia says it will resolve the municipal chief it is now this issue that I have already elaborated, and if, both the mayor and their deputy in the following cases: if he resigns and so on and so on. I think there's a whole different need to be done here not only in nomotechnic terms but also in terms of content. It can't be resolved, it's not a constitutional act. It's a declaration act. And if he does, I don't know how to resign, if he's convicted and so on and so forth, then they've gotten legal terms, and the government determines he's out of office. Nothing else. And he's calling the election. And not that she's making a decision on a resolution because she's actually making some kind of dispute that can be held for which, and which is why when the ex-lege law is prescribed in which cases this function actually ends. In particular, we have an objection to Article 16 where a number of voters are prescribed to support a particular candidate list with their signatures. First, it is not in principle right that political parties must support their candidates with lists when they actually have their membership. It's another thing when it comes to independent lists and so on. We can discuss this, but it should not be displayed by nominal numbers, but by percentage. Why? Because there is a big difference in population and voters in our units of local self-government compared to theirs, the same status as their majority per population. From a few hundred at the level of one municipality to a few thousand or ten thousand at the level of one municipality. Therefore, an institute of percentages should be installed there, but if you take for example that for the city of Zadar, it is prescribed that it is 5 thousand inhabitants, then it is more than 1%, respectively. So let's say it's 1% in each unit of local self-government voters should support the candidate list of independent, independent lists. Of course, here is the immediate opening of the nomotechnical question in Article 17 where it is not actually taken into account that the content,... the forms are prescribed by the State Election Commission, i.e. Article 1 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That at the same time in the form in paragraph 2 is prescribed what is present. It is therefore not true that they will prescribe the State Election Commission because it has laid down the law. It is the State Election Commission that needs to work out how the guidance will be implemented, how the form will actually be printed and implemented and so on. In Article 19, the article reads, "The application provides a statement of candidate for deputy candidate and acceptance of candidacy." But then we move on. "The assessment of the acceptance of the candidacy is measured by a public notary or a competent electoral commission." Be careful if these are parties that, in accordance with their Statute, can verify this, it is not right at first in this way to actually set up a business for public notaries. That doesn't make sense. If we have a public trust institute in the parties and if the parties have received public authority in that segment to comply with their decisions, the statutes or statutes may... The lists of candidates then have no need to further confirm that they are not only wasting time but also spending the resources in order for these issues to actually have to be resolved and in what way they should be dealt with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so we have another 30 articles of our remarks showing that actually this law is not completed in a professional way in order to ensure fair and fair elections that should be secured for the direct selection of mayors, mayors, and therefore we propose to put an end to the process of its adoption and to wait for the basic law and to bring these two laws together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65494	Thank you. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65495	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's just before us that the law is as long wanted by voters, the law as we all wanted it to be. A law that will just respect the will of the voters. They'll respect their voice. They will respect what we want and these are the strong commissioners, mayors and mayors so that they can really influence their environments, municipalities, cities, as well as the counties of economic events, political developments, raising the level of political culture. Of course this law is very complex in that. Easy to apply and just ready to respond to what most of you or I would say almost all parties agree. What has plagued us since the last elections is why so small and weak is the turnout of voters in the elections that have been repeated in municipalities, cities and counties. For the simple reason that more and more wants the identity of the mayor, mayor and mayor who will have their own programme, which will convince the nearest and then later electoral body that it is he who guarantees that the programme will be implemented. Because it happens to be elected mayors, mayors or mayors with barely 20 percent of votes won in the elections when you add everything you can not guarantee one democratic procedure. Which cannot guarantee that precisely later the municipality, city or county will be stable in the exercise of those interests of citizens who were thought to be guaranteed by the day's vote. That we do not say that it will not guarantee the achievement of laws and regulations in the field of its action. The direct election of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors is also in line with the European Charter, with local self-government but also with numerous institutes that have confirmed that this is exactly how it will guarantee a greater voter exit. It will guarantee what we want to say that within 4 years of the term of office, we are increasingly in need of the personalization of a person because it always connects with the person of the elected official, who is primarily elected thanks to the trust of the domicile population, because we are not large environments, but rather small ones where it is recognised and what this candidate has been doing before, which he is doing now when he is elected mayor or mayor and what his path will be in the future. It is certainly easier to discuss this given the fact that in this honorable House sits and now the mayors, the mayors, or those who were such, and even the mayors, so you can see exactly the essence of the proposed law. This is practicality, simplicity in the nomotechnical approach and we are talking about the choice of mayors, mayors and mayors in a direct way, and another regulation, for example by law, as stated by the very clear Law on local and regional, regional self-government will address those important issues that are necessary to bring this law back to life. In this respect, the conceptal difference that many colleagues and committees were unable to agree at first, but the valid argument of the motionor was also the result of such a law. That's the answer to my previous speaker. That's the big deal. We're doing laws, we're making laws right now and now, and we're not always saying it's not the time, so we're gonna wait a little while, so we're gonna wait, there's never a gentlemen of honor to end it. And so I think just two more words three to say in terms of conceptal differences and the development of our local self-government. I'm not going to mention 952. When there were counties, Dridska, Kleška, Cetinska, Imotska, but I'll get a little closer later when they had the most bloom, I'll talk about that area that I know most about Dalmatian cities. Just in the days of the Dalmatian statutes, starting with Dubrovnik, Korčula, Split, Trogir and Hvar, such development processes were also discussed. Our local self-government is experiencing a major take-off in '92. The year, '93. when elections were held. Representative bodies were selected in the local elections, later in proportion to the system. Local units are also strengthened by decentralisation of businesses, and certainly they are also serious, decentralised started with the establishment of the decentralisation Committee. Representative bodies have been selected. They would choose the mayors, mayors or mayors. Indirectly, such mayors, the mayors would rule. Everything, even only in 2005 changed that regardless of the number of inhabitants, there is always a chief without distinction whether the municipality is small or large. But in this way, the elected mayors, mayors or mayors are always directly elected. They didn't have stability. It's always been a calculation if I make this decision, maybe the council won't support me, so they'll resolve me, maybe that verification during the election and the candidates for the election of the people concerned contributed to individual parties or lists getting more, because such people recognized the candidates. This is the second reading of this law. And for the first time, we discussed everything in detail and we used the knowledge of exactly the alliances of cities, communities of Croatian counties, professional institutions, but I would also like to highlight the practical solutions that are very difficult in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And we agreed, since it was one big step, one turning point, a big and significant newspaper. It is also about the root change in the system, as well as the concepts of local self-government. In this way, the elected mayor, mayor and mayor will be really strong and will be able to implement nothing but laws and regulations, but also the programme on which he was elected. Certainly, the direct choice in this way is supported by the political parties' consensus. We differ slightly in the approach, but it should always be pointed out which questions we want to settle with this law, in what way we want to introduce a direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. And we've prescribed a run for office, a term of office, and he would often repeat it, so I'm going to say one more time why it's really important that we have precise provisions. As in Article 16, the validity of party and independent candidacys must be collected so that the exact number of signatures, no percentages. We'll always calculate, and how many percent, is that one and a half more voters, is that less. As we always know how to invent mathematical formulas for not solving anything. And Article 16 just clearly states, 50 signatures by the municipal chief in the municipality of a thousand people, 100 signatures for the municipal chief in the municipality over a thousand inhabitants, 500 signatures for the mayor of the city with less than 35,000, and 2 thousand for the mayor with more than 35,000, 3 thousand signatures for the mayor, 5 thousand signatures for the mayor of the City of Zagreb, I would add to the deputy. Very precise and clear. These provisions should always be commended, for that is the only way we can safely say such a solution is correct, it is easy to monitor it, and it is easy to resolve any disputes resulting from this. Of course, here I am still emphasising the speed and modernity of the accession of the Croatian government, which, based on the called sessions of alliances, cities and municipalities, accepted from the Croatian Community of County the solution that tortured us most in the first debate. Why does someone want to get rid of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor when he didn't choose him? This Article 12, as the Government noted one doubt, said the article was deleted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government, and we will also address this approach which is very complex. It is very complex to regulate the relationship between the representative body of the selected executive body. It's not easy and easy. But that is why it is important to adopt this law immediately and now so that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government can also be discussed in time and proposed by one and the other readings which will then be depicted by a very large number of solutions, precisely thanks to the Central Office of State Administration so that this Croatian reality can indeed be developed and promoted. It is also very precise that the municipal chief, mayor and mayor may be or their deputy during his duties. What can't it be? I'd say he can't do almost anything if he wants to do his job right. He can't. Because he's the one who's always in touch with people, he's the one people talk to when a pipe breaks, he won't answer the water line. In the smaller, larger and medium-sized environments, people are talking to the mayor and the mayor, and he should always be in such places. He can't take care of his company, he can't take care of other bodies in the state administration if he worked until then. It should simply forget everything else in those four years, and, of course, good behaviour of such a function will be able to capitalise after the term of office is over. If he did well, it won't be a problem for his job and employment. Such amendments are a very good and modern approach and also what should be discussed in this Law amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, this is a useful suggestion, it is a question of the power of elected leaders, i.e. between the representative body and the executive authority, the way decisions are taken and the procedure of recalling the mayor, mayor and the mayor. A very good emphasis has been placed on this very law, the proposal we are making, how it will be chosen. Those questions must indeed be the tasks of another law that must be passed in parallel with the law that we adopt. I therefore propose to the promoter that, as the opening secretary of state pointed out, he is already in the works, already being processed so that individual institutional bodies can give the public their critical voice for it, and then let him come to us as soon as possible because it is necessary to discuss it well and bring it thoroughly. It is therefore also important to mention in this future law, on amending the law, on the relationship of the media, on the attitude of the state media, or on local media towards potential candidates. What are the sanctions, how this is divided into a media-owned majority of local self-government units, in particular the financing of electoral promotion. Very clearly separate who gives money, how he gives money. There must be no anonymous donors in any way. We want to make transparency in every business unit of local self-government from municipalities, cities and counties in order to act in accordance with the strategy adopted to combat corruption because it is very often known from small budgets to make big and wrong decisions where money cannot be controlled. The deadlines are very precise in protecting the electoral right, as long as an objection can be made, until it has to be decided by the appeal. Such a law is notchly clear, with provisions clean, should be passed as soon as possible and it does not have many articles. This law is not burdened with unnecessary things, but rather with a clear way of saying this is the new approach we need to have because they are both voters and political parties for it. Article 96 may need to change a little from when it will apply very precisely and clearly, there should be no calculations because it is not due for tomorrow but rather for the first next elections, regular elections in local self-government. So I support the law and let it be passed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65496	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65497	Thank you, Mr. President. I would simply like to correct the quote of my colleague, dear colleague Peronje, who says that it is only true that the candidate for mayor, mayor or mayor has collected a number of signatures as provided for in Article 16. It is simply incorrect because we have witnessed that in the past presidential elections some of the candidates have not received as many votes as they have collected the signatures of support, but therefore all of us, someone more, someone less, have received a large number of voters' votes and I have reported to correct that incorrect quote simply for reasons why I think that in the democratic multiparty system that political parties are the bearers of the system and that it is absolutely unnecessary to collect signatures for candidates, party candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65498	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65499	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Secretary of State. I absolutely agree with Mr. Peru, that the parties are wrong or not, but I agree with him and share his judgment that the parties do not need to collect signatures. Secondly, after this question has been removed who solves the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, come on, what we're going to do, it seems acceptable. There are several contradictory points but not those that should not be voted for when the people will. The citizens want a direct pick and they'll obviously have one. It is a pity, however, that they are not so resolute for the election of parliamentary MPs, although it should be acknowledged that the current law elected by MPs is logical, it is fair, it is correct and it reflects one real political moment in the Republic of Croatia. In one word, it is only fair to cross the comprehensive metropolisation of Croatia and the other to cross the bipolarisation of Croatia and give each such a chance. So much for the election of MPs, even though I'm 100% in favour of direct elections, so let's see whose mother's black rune moves, so let's see who's directly elected gentlemen. But in that immediate choice for one that, for the other, I also see the hypocrisy of this home. We offer others that principle, but we don't set that principle for ourselves. I'm not going to say it's cowardice, but what we're going to do is move on even though I said we have a fair Electoral Law written by legal experts, and as such, we need to support it, not that every party in power writes itself election rules. If someone on the other hand is for direct elections, for selecting mayors, mayors, MPs etc. Then it's Damir Cain. If someone fits this election model that's being offered, then they're responding to the IDS again, and at first sight everything's going to be okay, but is that okay? We all agreed in '99 to replace this semi-presidential system with a semi-parliamentary one. What did we get in 2000? We got one semiparliamentary system, one caricature of parlametrism. But what do we stand for now? At the local level, we advocate, we speak openly, for the pure presidential system, and now the question is whether it's good. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Why not? On the other hand, it's not what suits me. It may not be good because it does not define the relationship between the council and the mayor, i.e. between the County Assembly and the mayor. Between the commissioners and the council, I'm always committed to the council, but I said, this law corresponds to the IDS and the IDS will absolutely vote for it. Finally, even in IDS some perhaps imaginary sizes realize how difficult they are and what ratings they enjoy. Of course I don't mean Jakovcic, he'll win the election. I'm thinking of someone else. But what am I saying? I've always been and have been to strengthen the role of a representative body. Whether this is about Parliament, whether it's about the assembly, whether it's about the municipal council or the city council. Why? Because these bodies are a pillar of parliamentaryism. When, gentlemen, did we have the best law? I claim we had the best law in 1993. That's when it was picked 50% off the list, 50% directly. So out of 30 of them, let's say for the City of Split, Pula, it doesn't matter, Buzet 15 directly, 15 from the list. Today we are in a position to choose only one directly. Between 50% of the selected directly and one I choose, I think it's better to choose 50%. But we know citizens want a direct choice. So what do we do now? And in that part, if citizens want to have it, they have to get it and that's why I'm saying that the law is logical right now. However, this article 3 may indicate that only one who has 12 months of residence in a city or county can choose. So you don't manipulate it. We see here, at least that's how I quote it, and I'm interpreting it, that the mayor may also be the mayor, i.e., the mayor, and I guess he can be mayor now. I guess he might as well be mayor. If so, I claim it's not good. The mayor, the mayor of a small town, yes, but the mayor shouldn't be in office either. True, and the mayor is on the other hand an exponent of local self-government, but the existing solution we now have in my court is appropriate, regardless of what may be in one Italy, Austria it is different. So, if that's the case, I'm absolutely in favour of the incompatibility of the mayor's representative, as well as the mayor of the big city who has the office of mayor and representative. Such political agreements are between individual parties of the ruling coalition, on that second occasion. So that's what you should think about. Why not cause inappropriate damage to the functioning of these units of local self-government in this form? This, on the other hand, influence and what's important, what might need to change first, is simply decentralisation. So, this kind of influence where the state is incometing 85% higher, 88% of fiscal income, the City of Zagreb 6%, and the 560 remaining counties, which cities, which municipalities, the remaining 6%, are simply unsustainable. I argue that the Republic of Croatia was the fastest to develop when it was most decentralised, and that was according to the 74th Constitution, which was a kind of basis for independence as well as for the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, I wanted to say to Montenegro, as will be Montenegro. At that time, gentlemen, 60% of fiscal revenues remained local self-government. At that time, congregations, municipalities were able to choose judges, which may not be good because of the independence of the judiciary, but they chose the head of territorial defense and police and national defence and catastra, inspectors, and today our mayors, the mayors cannot even influence the behaviour of the matriarchs. But that's the problem that our people don't know. They really think about every environment that our mayors, the mayors are the most powerful people, and they're against capital, against the media and against the executive authorities, I'd say, in one second-rate position. Articles 31 and 33 are extremely interesting. For the sake of time, I'm going to quote this other one, but he's not logical. It is clear whether gifts from foreign associations cannot be received by our electoral candidates. However, what should the analogy also be prescribed? That also those who oversee elections should not receive gifts from foreign associations. We with these solutions, gentlemen, may in some way inaugurate the principle that only one who has money can deal with politics in Croatia. That's where we're going, unfortunately. So these can be capital, media capital, and clearly, the two strongest parties that have solved the way the notes are financed either from their own sources or from some donations. Article 33 says the candidates are obliged to submit an early report on the sources and the amount of funds collected to finance the promotion no later than 7 days before the elections are held to the competent electoral commission. Once again, it means whether foreign governments can participate in the elections, whether it's about observers or someone else. I absolutely stand for election control, for observers, absolutely for fair elections. However, is that and how fair it is? On the other hand, I say this, that such a law as is proposed, the citizens want it, we can't be against it. It also corresponds to the executive authority. Such a law absolutely corresponds to the government. Each prime minister will always be easier to agree in Zagreb with Bandic, in Varazdin with Cacic, in Pula or Pazin with Jakovic, in Rijeka with Komadin, in Osijek with Djapic than with the representative body. However, I suppose the essence should be, gentlemen, to open up a debate about power, about money, about property. This law, gentlemen, is certainly not ideal. I said, he's just as logical. There are no answers to a number of questions, however, the citizens want this law and so clearly, I said, we will vote in favour, but I repeat once again that the best law for selecting mayors, mayors and this Croatian mayor was in 1993, but what will we do? Where all Turks here and Little Mujo will then IDS will vote clearly for this Law, and time will show whether the commissioners will now become small despots or really respect the council's will. They come into a situation that at one point they're enough for themselves. I doubt that after the direct election, the council will improvise them, especially if the law gives them that opportunity because they are the ones who can rule on their own, but as this experiment ends, we will see it, have it all other countries, and Croatia will also have it, which does not mean that what works elsewhere always works in Croatia. I said once again, we'll vote for what it'll be like in 5 or 10 years we'll see that, maybe the citizens will ask for change again and normally, and then they also need to get together. At this point, our citizens want a direct choice and let them be, however, I also advocate that not now in this election cycle, in the next one they come directly to the opportunity to elect also parliamentary representatives, and MPs to be just as honest and to define it to themselves as they do to others. What? ... I won't mind. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here I first ask that MPs be elected directly, and then everyone else, but it is only my wish because such a will obviously does not exist in this Parliament. All in all, citizens will be given the Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb and there is no other way but to support it, however, the essence should be and should open a debate on how to decentralise the Republic of Croatia either with regard to these fiscal, fiscal, or financial resources which should be strengthened, which should strengthen local self-government, whether in terms of power, or with the return of property to them in '93. For years, under quotes, when it comes to the forests that we were talking about today, that is, the agricultural land of the states, it did not usurp under quotes, but "attracted" itself through the legislation. All in all, once again we vote clearly for this, the time will show how good it is, and until then clearly Croatia has the right to one attempt that we want to believe will end a little better than this experiment that we introduced in 2000 or 2001, that only the council members in the municipal, city, or county bodies choose from the list, and for which the law notes then... votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65500	And gold isn't all that shines. Two corrections to an incorrect quote. First, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65501	Your Honor, Mr. President, I just have two corrections to Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations. The first is an incorrect allegation that mayors and mayors are powerless. In fact, there is, for example, a mayor of the City of Zagreb who has more de facto powers now than he will have when the law is passed, as is Mayor Jakovcic. They have stronger powers de facto now, once the law is passed they will be reduced. And the other is an incorrect quote, it says, "Citizens want this law." They want a direct choice, not this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65502	Thank you. And the honourable representative Miroslav Rožic, the second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65503	My correction, Mr. President, is very brief. My colleague Cain said "citizens want this law." Citizens may want a law like this or something, but this one sure as hell doesn't want one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65504	Ah, wishes are strange, strange. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic PGS, SBHS and MDS representatives' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65505	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, let me refer on behalf of the regional party club to this bill. Right at the beginning... as we will therefore make known about this Law, we will be abstentioned, not because of the intention and purpose of this Law, but because we think that this Law should have been followed by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which would have defined this issue to the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the future, for example, it could happen. It is the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government that averts the results of this Law in a certain way, since this second law will speak of what we think is very important, i.e. what will be the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority, i.e. the division of competences with the council and the assembly. So this law tells us nothing about it, this law is technical occasions, it tells us that the mayors, mayors, mayors will be elected directly into two electoral circles. Whoever gets more votes will therefore be, performing that function. So it's not about what's really important what his authority is, how much money he's going to be able to have, what kind of money he's going to have, for example. to be his relationship with headship, so there's not one word here or anything like that. So, this is exactly what we don't have an answer for, and we think that we should have received this Law at the same time, we repeat once again, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government to round the whole issue. Otherwise, we strongly support the idea and the intention that our mayors, mayors, mayors are elected in a direct way, so that people choose primarily persons, so, and then the parties, unlike now that the parties are in the first place, as you know in our municipalities, cities and counties, are currently in the application of a proportional system where the lists are therefore chosen, i.e. The numbers shall be rounded up in front of the holder of that list and the parties represented by those holders. The result is that often citizens do not know who they are voting for, so we think about those people standing under the list holder and so the parties then decide who will represent them in representative bodies, and people often witness that their voices end up in the opposite... So we are in favour of the direct selection of the mayors, mayors and mayors, we agree that it is also one of the advantages of the directly elected head of the executive government's political, democratic and moral legitimacy that brings with it the direct choice of mayors by citizens, unlike the one chosen by the council group. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This also increases the overall legitimacy of the political system at local level and gives citizens a double opportunity to vote for both party candidates and possibly an independent candidate. It is also possible for a clearer separation of powers between the representative and the executive body to offer an opportunity for the mayor to act more or less independently of the party pressures of members of local councils belonging to different political parties and also to increase the independence of the assembly from the executive authority, thus also real control on the other hand. In our opinion, too, we agree that such changes contribute to strengthening the foundations of local democracy in the initial stages of its development and help the population clearly determine the local level of public government and learn about the idea of local self-government. We also think that such changes encourage stronger and more responsible behaviour of political leaderships, more open-mindedly identifying issues as more direct involvement of citizens. All of this should lead to greater transparency of local self-government and create more efficient management of local self-government services for the proper needs of citizens. So the bill's final bill of law, which we already have on our desks, had some provisions that we couldn't agree on. Fortunately, the government has now removed them from this bill with its amendments. That is why we are primarily referring to the provision that the government could have replaced the mayor, mayor or mayor on a proposal from the presidential body. I think it's good that this was done and we think it's not good that such a proposal has even appeared in the final draft of the law because, as we pointed out before and before such proposals in the world, it's almost gone, because it's understandable, so if we respect the procedure that one who's chosen can be replaced in that way alone. So, if he was directly elected by the citizens, then only those who chose him and not the representative body can replace him. It's one parallel that we have to stick to and not introduce any innovations that we could say to undermine the essence of these proposals that are proposed. What is therefore important is that unfortunately it is not the treatment of this law, which unfortunately is not in the Law on Local Self-Government, which was to be followed by this law. It is therefore a tendency to create a balanced relationship between the mayors of the local headship and the representative council of the municipality, city or county. It is critical for us because we need to have clear legal provisions defining the roles and relations of different institutions of local self-government. So the Chief must have all the powers, but also the representative body must have that word. So, there must be a balance between the two institutions, two bodies chosen from the same citizens, and normally it has to be about the distribution of the authorities in order for them to act in harmony and not to do exactly the opposite of making such changes another focal point, another generator of future crises in the work of our municipalities, cities and counties that we all agree on so far. Now, in the end, once again, our club will be restrained, not because we oppose the election of mayors, mayors in this way, but because we think that this law must go to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which would have just solved these doubts that we ourselves have detected in this debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65506	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65507	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! It's so nice that there's no transmission while we're discussing this. Perhaps the amount of demagogy would have been much greater than it's been on this subject so far. Demagogies in terms of raising voters and interpreting their will. So, reportedly, the Croatian voters express unequivocally the will and desire to directly elect executive power because it is actually a translation of the bill. It's a direct choice of executive power, and not at the level that one would think from the very beginning, so in the most important example at the state level, we choose by directly electing the Prime Minister, which would certainly then clearly reflect the will of the voters about who they want to see run their country. No, not at all. On behalf of Parliamentism, the Prime Minister, we are reportedly going to leave him to be elected by a representative body or legislation if that is what you want, and that is the Croatian Parliament, and then all of these under it are other levels of local self-government and even levels of state administration such as counties because the mayors are actually the level of state administration and not local self-government. Now, we're going to pick them directly, and that's what we're going to do? That will actually satisfy the will of the voters. Oh, come on! And then under these and such reasons for which there is, of course, a whole series of theoretical arguments that I don't doubt at all their convictions or any of us at the HSP Club, and even in their full regularity about how citizens of voters will participate more in the decision-making process, be more expressed their will, less susceptible to coalition negotiations, agreements, trades where they can't penetrate before the elections, although in most people who already use logic and have some experience in Croatian politics can already see in advance what coalitions they will be? Some even come together and announce themselves, despite not being formally on the lists. Some political parties speak in advance with whom they will, with whom they cannot, with whom they cannot. And so on and so forth. Therefore, there is much to be guessed but in the end everything is left to some kind of trade or better said to what is at, we must confess and give recognition only to the Croatian party of pensioners in the local elections in a very clear and unequivocally said not trying to sell cheap demagogy than she said: "It is in our interest to enter power, and that means that we represent the interests of our voters, so we will co-ordinate with any political option to enter power." It is logical, legitimate, clear and all this is cheap demagogy. But, of course, we now have a law in front of us that should actually interpret and respond to the voter's will to directly choose executive authority and where? At the lowest levels. Where is it, then, to say the danger of political rather than ideological trade the greatest, is it? So where it can be spilled from hollow and empty. Where people, mandates and everything else can be bought, and we will prevent it from actually choosing the executive power directly. It's interesting that the Proposer of this Law actually doesn't hide it at all in his own explanation, so he says what are the reasons for this law's adoption in the first place? There are three reasons, actually there are four but the fourth promoter has completely failed as St. Peter Jesus. So he denied funding and financial burden on local self-government. That's why he doesn't mention it. But he does mention this. So the first reason is, I quote: "It will further strengthen the municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors of the City of Zagreb and the Mayor." That is the first reason. So they need to be further strengthened. I guess they're too weak now. Let's say the ingenuity and power of one Milan Bandic or Cacic or Czechoko or Djapic if you want, I'm not going to, as a colleague of Cain to avoid being, uh, really small right now. They need to be strengthened. And that's supposed to be what our voters want, that's what our voters want. "Being" he says, "these officials need to be significantly strengthened and closely worked out by other relations," I don't know which, whose relations with whom? "To better establish the rights, responsibilities and responsibilities and especially the mutual relations between representative and executive bodies. And you know what in this law? Not a word about the development of these relationships. Not a word about how these particularly mutual relations between representative and executive bodies intertwine in all in some hope or all in some way in order to actually gain a higher level of democracy and parliamentaryism. Although it is actually a notorious fact that the direct election of the executive authority is always directed against parliamentaryism, and I really don't think that someone is going to lift my correction to this statement. So secondly, if, yes. The second reason that the legislator states is this: "The legislator believes that the proposed solution to the direct election will allow for the determination of the voter's will in the elections, and that is exactly what the greatest benefit of the proposed law says. Yeah, right. It's the only thing unfortunately voters think is the intensity of this law and will allow them to do so. That's why they want direct elections, not to strengthen mayors and mayors, what was first stated as a reason. It's just that it's going to make it possible for them to know their will as voters to express themselves in the elections. And he says that's the greatest benefit of the proposed law. However, in Article 10 of this Law, beware of what? You can actually run for president of the state. The Prime Minister can run. I can run for ministers. They can all run under this law and after they are elected to resign on that duty that is incompatible. Excellent. So we're going back somewhere very close to what we had when Dr. Francis Tudjman was the bearer of all the lists in the local elections. We're going back to a time when anyone can actually run. Because why? This law does not prevent them from running. He only prevents them from performing incompatible duties and assumes they must resign on one of the incompatible duties. Of course. But that's one thing that came to mind. Which will, in fact, express the will of the voter. I'm sure she'll be more specific because they'll believe, so we've already had something similar in the re-elections in Velika Gorica. One, one former minister, one current minister and one, in a transitional period, one minister, right? And so. And at that very time, is it at that point, so it was one wonderful, wonderful indicator that they can't actually run or they won't be able to run, and according to this law they'll be able to do, and then they'll see where they're going to resign. On one side or the other. Anyway, I'm guessing this other one, and then we'll have reelections or it'll take over the deputy mayor. If it comes from a similar option, and if it happens to be from another option then it will not take over when the resignation is given, but then we will get an interpretation from Mr Palarić that the elections should actually be repeated no? And so on and so forth. I don't think this really, really, this bill of law is going to live up to this reason. The third reason is that more voters will be elected to the local elections since the mayor's direct election will increase citizens' interest in going to the elections. I say responsiblely on behalf of the club whatever. This law provides for at least two rounds of elections, and in the least, somehow I would say in a very common option and three rounds of elections in order to reach a directly elected mayor or mayor or municipal chief. You know what? In a situation where local elections are attended by cca 30% of people, and in some repeated elections, poor 13 or 15% of people. I find it very interesting how you're going to get a higher voter turnout in three rounds to select the municipal chief you want from the municipality, Kukuljanovo, who doesn't exist yet, but let's just say. That'll be fantastic. Three weeks in a row, voters will be elected directly by their municipal chief in large numbers, and they can't sacrifice already for one week because they often find it much more important to think that it doesn't matter who wins or at least 2/3 of them who don't go to the elections anyway. So I really don't see where this enthusiasm comes from, where it actually comes from, that optimism that a much larger number of voters will go out for 3 weeks in the polls, or at least two in two rounds. And then there's even more optimism about what's going to happen after two months when it's going to be, when it won't be torn up, and then there's going to be some reason for the mayor's shift and so-called mayor to call a referendum. So the citizens will again be moved to the possibility that they can directly decide on the referendum and decide whether the elections should be re-scheduled or not to re-schedul the elections, etc. In one word, it will indeed turn into a school of democracy in Croats where we will go out in almost every Sunday in Croatia and choose someone directly to strengthen their role. Of course, the question I already said, which is the financial burden of those so-called so-called. continued elections in Croats into what this will turn into no one has calculated and no one has predicted. But like this, you will be told from the eye at least for the start of the first time when they're spent at least triple what the elections today cost in local self-government. Finally, the promoter concluded, the expert opinion of the public is undivided that the application of the direct election system of the executive body will contribute to a higher level of political stability of the representative body. Indeed, Mr Palaric will certainly contribute to the higher level of political stability of the representative body, because according to this proposal, the representative body will become completely irrelevant, and that is then maximum stability. Or what I can do, or what I can change, or what they want to change. It's stable until the next election. Maximum stability. This representative body will actually play a perhaps advisory role in those conscientiously elected mayors or mayors. Of course, it is said here, but then political stability will also be achieved at the state level. The public therefore expects it to say that the mayor's direct election should be a big and significant step in raising political culture, it is quite certain that every Sunday there will be elections and credentials of political process participants at the local but also at the state level. I don't know which way at the state level, but at the state level we don't choose directly. It's not a suggestion to be directly elected. So, the strangest thing is, let me just say this sentence, Mr. President, I end up with this, the strangest thing is that we want to go out to the voters and pass the law they want, that is, the law that should, which is the expression of their will of direct choice to pass that law now, and we will only apply it in 3 years, according to this proposal. It is indeed something that will surely go to meet and fulfill these desires of our constituents who want such a direct choice. They'll take you three years to apply this law like three months. And in a moment, there's a direct choice, and we're supposed to be in three years and in the European Union, and we'll probably be doing some other law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65508	Okay. Very good. Thank you very much. At 16 and 45, it was time for individual debates on this agenda point. And exactly 30 MPs and MPs signed up. It'll be a sequel on Wednesday, and probably Thursday. The time has elapsed for registration at this time. Correction of an incorrect allegation, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65509	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct a quote from a respected colleague, Rozic, who said that the mayors are the level of state administration. This was until 2001 when the mayors were the owners of the executive government as local self-government and representatives of the state administration on the ground confirmed by the president of the state. In 2001, however, the mayors are the sole holders of the executive government at the level of local self-government and representatives of the state administration. ... And it's regional. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the representatives of the state administration at the county level are the heads of the Office of State Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65510	On behalf of the HSLS club, respected deputy president Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65511	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, after this inspired speech, I find it a little harder to speak and comment on the articles. But I must admit that although we have made a firm decision to support this law, because it is better than the former, significantly better, some doubts have yet to be made, but all happiness may be improved in part and amendments. Why do we support this law? Because we really think it's better, because so far fraud, combinations, trade has shown all the imagination of Croatian citizens. And I hope that, if it's good anywhere, that this imagination is limited then it's right in the election. This is still one step ahead. The fact is, it seems that citizens have already chosen this election under future law. If you look at where the elections are repeated then you will see that in relation to the parties, according to the party rating very often or almost as a rule, people were defeated and only then political parties or options. There is no need for me to now list that such a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors have almost all countries or all countries in our neighborhood. As HSLS, when we proposed amendments to the law, we used to say there are even Republika Srpska only with us is not knowing who will eventually be mayor or mayor and then they can mention Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Italy, Germany, Cyprus and some federal provinces in Austria and Slovakia. Otherwise, I really believe that this will increase the citizens' interest in going to the elections and participating in public life, although I hope that my colleague Rosic is wrong that it will turn into a continuous process that will last for two to three years, because it would really be expensive for every budget and unsustainable, and then, of course, this issue would be questioned. The fact is, however, that the current way of selecting local officials in the public has caused satisfaction because they voted for one person who was the bearer of the list, and then eventually, when forming government or trade, they received some entirely different persons, here is not to mention these last elections where trade may have led to perfection in these repeated ones. There are arguments of course which are directly, which could support this law. I believe that this is more political and democratic and moral legitimacy, the overall legitimacy of the political system at local level has been increased, the clear division of the authorities between the representatives and the executive body, the possibility of the mayor acting less or more independently on party pressures by council members, but if the mayor or mayor and the assembly represent different political views that are likely to happen, this could lead to a greater risk of ineffectiveness and congestion in governance, i.e. when making some important decisions, for example. the budget or return this old model which already exists in which it is necessary to have the mayor, mayor or mayor in a certain way still have to agree with the city council. So again, there will be a small possibility of a settlement or trade. A higher concentration of power in the person of the local leader is possible, but as mentioned earlier on very clear examples, it is evident that it exists already now. But the law is definitely improved but with the intention of making it even better, I would really ask you to consider some more articles and try to correct them until the vote on amendments, and it is evident that it will be within a week. In Article 4, a change has been made, and it is said that the right to be elected as municipal mayor, mayor, mayor or mayor of Zagreb has all the voters who have at least six months of registered residence on the day of the election. Otherwise, the previous provision did not define a certain period of time for the application of the residence in the local unit on which the person was running. Thus, it will definitely reduce the difference in population according to the electoral units. In Article 5, it is more precise than in the first reading but there is still a shortage, whether it is good that the term of office of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors or the City of Zagreb is elected to the elections starting from the day of the elections or from the beginning of the constitutive session, or from the oath. We could really define that. Article 17 is one of the articles on which I draw particular attention from the applicant. There is no mention of the procedures for the control of the collected signatures necessary for the validity of the candidates. An item should also be added to regulate the procedure for the control of the collected signatures for the validity of candidates implementing the competent electoral commission. Although we know from experience that if such checks are not available, there are points and those who sign off and, of course, are legitimately entertained. This should really determine what these signatures serve if there is no control. Article 23 does not state which public ballots the competent electoral commission may use to publish a list of eligible candidates, so that they can be considered either all or only one. Article 25(3) states that candidates have the right to vote on equal terms which can be interpreted very differently. It should indicate the intention of this article, whether its intention to make certain public spaces available to all candidates for promotional posters or to make certain public facilities available to all candidates for meetings and meetings, or only to access public information means. Without concrete criteria, it will not be possible to determine whether the law is applied equally to all. In Article 28(1), the right to compensation for election promotion costs shall be granted by candidates who receive at least 10% of the total number of voters who went to the polls and I believe that this is the percentage that is acceptable. However, there is no definition of what really constitutes the cost of an election campaign, so what is it. It also raises the question of the documentation needed to determine such costs or costs under the allegations as a cost which is justifiablely compensateable. Whether it's making posters or maybe I don't know, there were apple trucks or potatoes that could be shared with the population or here's strawberries now. The law does not provide for any deadlines for applying for compensation and then for payment. We can probably make it a long time to pay off. Article 30 states that election promotion is financed from own resources, from gifts from domestic natural and legal persons. There is a principle of transparency in the fog, it is necessary to determine the amount of such gifts, i.e. it should add an item that would contain a limit to the amount of donation for the promotion, total grants and expenditure, and those restrictions must, of course, be realistic in order to allow candidates and political parties enough expenditure to manage their own promotion and it may be good to discuss it like this in the afternoon without a camera because a competition would likely take place on how much to lower the amount of these donations and there may be a risk of being unreal. With regard to Article 33, which states that candidates are obliged to submit to the electoral commission an early report on sources and the amount of funds collected for the financing of the electoral promotion, a final report on the elections and the amount of funds spent for the election promotion shall also be submitted. It would be important to add to the criminal provisions and the item for those candidates who do not respect these legal conditions. Because if we let them go only to the public court after four or five years, I'm afraid we're rather prone to forgetting, and there won't be any more news if someone doesn't respect the law. Therefore, it is necessary to be precise and to lay down criminal provisions. Article 65 does not state the deadline by which the municipal electoral commission should deliver the electoral results to the competent county electoral commission, and Article 68 also needs to set a deadline for the election commission to determine the results of the elections on the basis of the vote results at all polling stations in order to bring the results to the National Election Commission as soon as possible. Although I don't believe there's any greater abuse, I believe it would be valuable to arrange this part. What is important is that by its amendment to the Final Proposal of the Law, the Government deleted Article 12, which set out the question of the resolution of the directly elected municipal chief, mayor, mayor, mayor, mayor of the City of Zagreb and deputy and proposed that this issue be settled by the Law on Local, Regional or Regional Self-Government. In fact, it is certainly a good thing that the decision to delete Article 12 has been made because it could really be asked the point of going to the elections. However, we should at least know how it is imagined in a law that we will welcome in 2 or 3 years. Otherwise, it is logical to be resolved by those who are, or exclusively, the ones who chose directly. Although it is not bad or certainly better than the model proposed, this is the Slovenian model where the parliamentary committee for local self-government decides on it. Because the matter of the referendum, if it is a matter of referendum, then it is of course a procedure that is quite expensive and if council members have little fun then they will need to set sanctions for those who produce such a cost and fail to achieve the expected effect. So we have a week to think about it, try to fix the amendments, or at least specify the articles that I listed. We've also opened a few topics here. How can we never escape from the general stories, so colleague Cain also raised the issue of open lists for the parliamentary elections. That's what we love to talk about, but I have to say, we, as HSLS, have proposed semi-open lists for parliamentary elections. Because otherwise, if we went to just known names, so that someone who's unknown, who's starting to deal with politics could become a representative at all. That way, the job would appear to be life-long. They would always choose the same or some strange criteria to choose by means of a method of trial and error, I'm afraid. The question you have raised, the compatibility of the mayor and the representative is indeed a matter that I can say in person. Surely it is necessary to determine the size of the city, of course, we should think about what this means about the distance of the city from the City of Zagreb. However, I believe that it is not possible to specify it precisely, but I would like to suggest that we consider another topic. And that is, actually, party lists when putting together an advantage should be given to those who know a bit about the functioning of local administrations and self-governments that have tried in these jobs. I didn't have this natural path that I'm proposing right now, so I don't speak from experience, but I really think it's a good thing that those who have tried at least some of these places can be representatives because they certainly know the functioning and methods of working with us here. And believe me, quite differently, if anything, they read that basic document we're meeting, which is the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65512	Thank you. The HSN Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65513	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This Law, in its contents, could assess good, but because of what is not with it the most adequate title of this Law, could be the Law on the Selection of Municipal, City and County Casperes. Municipal, city and county Caspere, good spirits. Because because of what is missing, voters will decide in the elections in good faith or hope, when we read only this Law, that they will choose or choose and choose a person who will mean something, who will be able to do something and who will have authority. So we can believe that we're going to choose good spirits, and if there's no good spirits, then we're going to turn them into those who are missing or ficus or local prime ministers, Chancellor. There's no third. This second one will probably be, I guess we'll also have a national office system, regional, municipal and cityal. The Croatian People's Party certainly is for direct elections, which proved its proposals so far. And we expected a reserve according to this offered model as it was shown when Parliament discussed our draft laws. So, and then that reserve was expressed by those who were justifying fear, the dangers of strangers defending what it was, and that was trading mandates as means and purpose, dealing with local politics. And the truth is that the direct elections in the most part, though not 100%, narrow down or disabling that part of the maneuver completely. There are also practices I have found to remove this fear of a continuous electoral process completely in Croatia and not to burden local budgets with elections for any kuna. Namely, there is one country where regional and local leaders are appointed head of state. It's the cheapest option and there's no continuing election process, no fears, no expenses, nothing. Now, I want to believe that no one will ever suggest it. Therefore, this Law largely regulates the procedure of direct elections, but it must not be voted for, cannot because we do not have intervention or a new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. So, what powers will directly elected leaders have? What will their relationship with the representative bodies be? How will their exchangeability be resolved and in particular how will the most controversial point of all discussions be resolved so far, and this is a matter of availability and property management? One is the possession of property, the other is property management. Now if this issue of authority of relations with the representative body, property and exchangeability of these people are not an integral part of the qualitative observation of the offered electoral system, then I understand nothing. This is a segment of the candidacy and the election and the point. Try to imagine how the campaign is run and what programs these people face when they don't even know what powers they're going to have. Will he have the property and the possession and the management or just manage it? Will the representative body have all or only part of the property? And that's why it's not possible to vote for this bill so long as the government, and at the Committee's meeting... that amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government do not come with that solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But all warnings are in vain because this law must obviously be adopted, and then allow a few concrete proposals translated into amendments that significantly improve the text of the law itself. As regards Article 6 and the time from the day of the election and the election, we suggest that it be at least 45 days, not 30 days, because the number of actions to be carried out for quality preparation is a minimum of 45. Secondly, the end of the mandate of the directly elected leader and after the government's amendment that there is no government decision on the resolution remains a second sentence that cannot be. Namely, it says that if he stopped his term as head of staff to replace him with his deputy and that's understandable. If the mayor dies, he moves away from that unit, loses his business ability, or he's been sentenced to a felony, and he ends up in prison. However, if the termination of the term of office is due to impeachment, then it cannot be replaced by a deputy because they were in the package. Citizens voted in favour of the candidate and his deputy, in the package and at the time of termination of the term of office because of the cancellation of the fall and his deputy, and therefore this provision on the way, the conditions of termination of the term of office may remain only, unless the term of office has ceased by calling off the head man. I repeat, this is important because they were in the selection package. Third, we propose that, with the above-mentioned incompatible duties that the law provides, only one more enters, and these are parliamentary representatives. We believe that at the same time the same person cannot be a parliamentary representative and mayor, parliamentary representative and mayor and parliamentary representative and head of the municipality. Fourthly, as regards the required number of voter support, instead of the number as the biller suggested, we suggest that it be 2% of the electoral body, but that this figure cannot be less than 100. Namely, the diversity of the number of voters in municipalities and cities is so much that these numerical... The figures proposed by the government lead to the fact that somewhere, that number would be 3% of the electoral body, and somewhere below 1% of the electoral body, and then it's fairer to give a percentage for everyone, but to give a lower limit below which you can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone has already noticed, although the reason for the law says that the two-circular system of elections, the law also speaks of the third round, so it would also be a three-round model of choice. And what if the third round doesn't work? There is no solution in the law, and then elections should be repeated. It says "let's go to the third round," and what if there's nothing then? There is no extension or new sentence in Article 38. With members of election committees and election committees, you will probably agree that it is necessary to supplement that they are not candidates on the lists in order for someone to be a member of an electoral body that is not in the law. The same applies to observers in the elections of NGOs who have the right to observe the elections, and there should be a provision among them and that observers of NGOs also cannot and should not be candidates in the elections. There is no such provision in the text of the Law. And it ends with the next one. The last article or the transitional article of 96 is that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the "National Journals" and will apply to the first subsequent regular local elections. Ask the lawyers who do so whether such a provision in the law can or may write. The day of entry into force and the application of the law is one day, it must be one day, it cannot be different, and in all other texts, the Government has, in its opinion, warned the entry into force and application of the law in that fact. Therefore, this article should also be amended to enter into force and apply from 1.1.2009, because in the current law we have a provision that if there is a need for extraordinary local elections, they should not be held in the calendar year in which the first regular elections are scheduled. So if there is a crisis in the government in 2009 there will be no extraordinary elections because it is a regular election year and it is perfectly normal that this law can enter into force and apply only on the first day of that year. I end up with a suggestion to the government's representative. Do not insist on voting on this bill until the Parliament has held a debate on what you have clearly already written and these are amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65514	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65515	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what's completely incorrect is that the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors when they go to the campaign won't know what powers they'll have. Well, colleague Lesar, your sufferings and dilemmas will surely come to an end because in three years we will surely pass laws that define all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65516	The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati, on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65517	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs! So allow me to say on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club in a few minutes about the final proposal of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. Of course, today we are all able to discuss this law, the final bill of law, and we all know that we have publicly declared ourselves supporting the initiative for the direct election of these officials and, of course, it is one of the possible traps. If we've all declared ourselves, we're probably expected to support this proposal, too. However, it has already been said several times from the pay phone that we unfortunately do not have the opportunity to talk about the package today, because we do not know among other things, this law is of course not defined, and the powers of course and certain restrictions, or how the control of the authorities is arranged. But I will, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, give a few observations on the overall subject, it seems to me that this is significant and interesting. It is true that in a number of European countries over the last decade, a number of very significant reforms have been carried out in the institutional framework of units of local and regional self-government, and this highlights particularly the increased acceptance of the direct election of mayors. This is confirmed by Resolution 139 of 2002 on relations between the public, local assembly and executive authorities in local democracy, which has adopted the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe, which recognises that the direct selection of mayors is from a people of procedures that is increasingly used in the Member States of the Council of Europe for the appointment of executive authorities. It's a finished quote. Here, for almost ten years we have been talking about this idea launched by the then Alliance of Cities and the municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, which has also proposed this bill, and today, of course, we have before us, among other things, quite modified this proposal. However, what is most important about this solution was much debated in all professional and political clubs in the Republic of Croatia. Enough time before the next local elections are scheduled, I hope it will be in 2009 and is then foreseen between the other and the application of this new model of choice and the new structure of local and regional self-government. So enough time is enough to begin with the adoption of a package of laws that will certainly fully regulate the new system based on the directly elected head of local and executive authorities. Indeed, we expected this package of laws to be before us today, and I really don't see why there are no amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government as a fundamental law, because then we could discuss all the problems more fully. But he's gone. It is a shame, I repeat, that we are missing the opportunity to fully discuss the reform of local electoral legislation and we might avoid a whole series of issues that are also raised under this law and certain dilemmas that arise, as well as speculations that are present. This should highlight a few good ones, and we can say a few less good features of the current process of designing and defining the new system. It is good that almost a general political consensus has been reached in the country to accept the option of direct elections and this consensus is reflected in the fact that before the Croatian Parliament here is today the final proposal of this law. The adoption of that law confirms a principled commitment to change the governance system in local self-government and will no longer be only at the level of political support but primarily at the level of the constituent part of the Croatian legal system. It should also highlight the second positive feature and look at the efforts of the legislators to get as high as possible through public debate as possible. What I don't think is good is, above all, the fact that by considering partial laws that regulate only a partial aspect of the new system is lost from sight of the integrity and comprehensiveness of the changes that will follow in local and regional self-government. Likewise, I think that very few solutions already present in other countries that are significantly longer practiced by the direct choice system have been used in the drafting of legislative proposals. On the basis of the final proposal of the Law on the Direct Selection of Municipal Commissioners, Mayors and Mayors, we can also say freely the predicate which is in the public debate, which unfortunately does not have any amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, can be given a certain preliminary assessment of these offered solutions in the light of just comparative experience. The most important thing is of course a provision on how to choose. It was possible to divide for more options related to the choice of a leader. For example, there is a good example in Italy, there is a good example also in Germany. We've decided it seems to me to be a German model that's even better in our opinion. However, as far as the election of deputy mayors or other leaders is concerned, the intended solution is original. It does not follow either the Italian or the German model. For example, members of the local college executive body in the Italian units of local self-government were appointed by the mayor rather than the Council. While in Germany, the mayor is assisted by deputies elected by the Council and, of course, by the proportion of the strengths of individual party groups in the Council. The final proposal for a direct choice law has adopted a solution for a deputy to be elected together and at the same time with the mayor or mayor or mayor. Simplifiedly speaking, it is similar to the US presidential, presidential elections in which they are together on the presidential ballot for president and vice-presidential candidate. That solution doesn't seem most appropriate to me. The elected head of the local executive authority will have only one deputy under the new system and until now he has had two, as a rule two, alongside members of the Headship. If, for any of these legal reasons, a solution to the deputy is not provided for the possibility of selecting a new one during the term of office, which is to be said in the case of the American President. So the mayor or mayor or mayor would have to exercise all the executive powers himself. In addition to the final draft law, Article 8 does not provide for the deputy to assume the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor in the event of the early termination of his term of office. Unless the mandate ceases in the calendar year in which regular elections will be held. In a political and professional debate on the direct selection of local leaders, the executive authorities largely dominate the issue of how to prevent the appearance of a kind of mundane "presidentialism" in which elected leaders will abuse their powers at the expense of the representative body, and thanks to the very legitimacy of the direct choice by citizens. In this respect, legislative provisions on powers and responsibilities and possible resolution are particularly important, i.e. recalling directly elected mayors, mayors or mayors. Some solutions are well-known, but I would not really guess which solution will finally be proposed, but I must say that these solutions are not in line with the experiences of other countries and neither with the Council of Europe's crackdowns. So that I do not now speak here about these principles, or that recommendation of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe, which, just to quote a recommendation from 113 Congress, which states: "If those who are directly elected by the public authorities by the people each shift must be supported by the people." I do not know if it will be because we do not have a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local, Local and Regional Self-Government. As regards the powers of the directly elected leaders, and this all comes down to the same because we really do not know what the control system will be, or what will be the Council's attitude towards the mayor or the Assembly towards the mayor or mayor of the City of Zagreb? How do you solve the responsibility problem? How do you solve this particular problem that the Vice President of the Parliament was talking about? A higher or lower concentration of the power of the local mayor or mayor is possible. It's just speculation. Those speculations wouldn't be if we had another law in front of us from that package I was talking about. And what I still want to point out in the end, so I have already said what our remarks are about defining the deputy mayor or the mayor that we also support so far the incompatibility of functions expressed above all by the mayor. We can discuss the commissioner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There are many arguments that suggest that this incompatibility must be contained in this bill. We're all witnesses here and in this high house that just you, come on I'll tell the mayors act too locally. Maybe it's not good sometimes. But it's for local interests, but not for the state. I also have to say that he can't be equally committed to both jobs. We see how often the mayors here are present. Also to avoid any doubts about any, receipts, fees that are spoken of, a lot of arguments. In order to avoid this, why not put that incompatibility or incompatibility of functions in Article 9, I repeat the mayor primarily, and if the debate is opened, we can also participate and we feel that this would not be contrary to our thinking. Here's the end. I can see the light's already on. We regret that we missed the opportunity to discuss the package of laws and we already have clear rules to assume in 2009. And yet on the other hand, the question arises if other laws weren't ready why did they go with this law? Well, there's been plenty of time in this session to pass a package of these laws. Here's what we resent, even though we are in principle for the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. These remarks exist, and we will try to regulate them as part of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65518	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65519	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Ivan Vukic, today, said to the entire Croatian public here in the Parliament: "We are already used to fellow Stazic interpreting the laws and regulations as it fits him. And I personally, when I experience that he is one law that was proposed here in this Croatian Assembly, I will support the lamb for the entire Assembly."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65520	Was it really about the lamb? I wasn't sitting here?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65521	I can please all my colleagues in the Parliament, and my colleagues in the Parliament and declare: Nenad Stazic supports the direct selection of mayors, municipal mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, and all the conventions that come out of this support remain on Mr. Vukic. So much for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65522	And here comes Honorable Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65523	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, first of all, I'll talk to my fellow intern. Behind everything I've said, I'm absolutely standing. I'm glad you're behind your words, too. I'm glad that what I personally didn't expect happened, I have to admit, but what I said was I stand behind it and I invite you all in one period of time to the lamb here's where you decide. But I'll write the invitations, and the lamb will be somewhere on the Whitelight, not here. I'm too expensive here, though. Here's the lamb 260, and I've got it in Face 160. ... It will be. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It will be. Here's to this little joke I'm really behind the word of the one I said. I also absolutely support this law and I am glad that since the first reading, the government has respected a large majority of remarks and clubs and parliamentary representatives, mainly on the part of the resolution of the mayors, mayors and mayors. I also think that both the government and the ministry deserve congratulations, because all governments so far, including all political parties, had in their programme a direct selection programme of leaders, commissioners, mayors and mayors. This government has got the strength to keep its promise. I would also say the wish of a large majority of Croatian citizens to directly elect their mayors, mayors and mayors. I also acted in the county and mayoral office, and I remember a seminar in Crikvenica when the minister of justice was still Mr Ivanisevic. We then had as mayors one poll and 95% of present commissioners and the mayor in the survey was for the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. What I think this law will be, which is that the county assemblies, city councils and municipal councils will have to be more frequent, that it will be necessary in the budget to provide more resources. For there will be no municipal, city and county heads, so some of the responsibilities from the headships go to the jurisdiction of the county congregations, councils, cities and municipalities. But democracy is expensive, it costs, and that's why I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65524	Okay. The only bet was that, because it was about you having to work that direct selection of lambs somewhere on a polling ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65525	Me and my colleague, Stazic, we'll make a deal. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65526	It's going to be a generally interesting place. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65527	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Vukic said all parties had a direct choice of mayor in their programmes. That's really not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65528	Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65529	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I support the proposal of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, and Mayor of the City of Zagreb. The immediate choice of facts is, and that is what many colleagues have already said, that it was the wish of our voters. Because in this case, in this way, citizens will know which person they choose. It will no longer be possible for a list bearer to be one person, and later the executive authority is acting as someone else. But what's certainly the job ahead of us is exactly the harmonisation of this law, the Law of Elections with the Law on Local Self-Government that we hear is now being prepared in the community of municipalities and cities. Because that's where it is right now to be careful to define the relationship between the executive authority's holder, so the mayor, the mayor and the representative body. Because it can happen that we simply have a mutual blockade, that they overlap powers. Because very often it will happen, as is the case with countries that have this kind of choice that the representative body is opposed to the holder of the executive authority. And in that case, there's a problem with how to make a budget, how to make important decisions. So we have a case, here's the specific, neighbouring Slovenia as I am closest to where they have a direct choice of the holder of the executive authority. Very often is the representative body of opposition... And the neighbouring state has had several amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government where they tried to define this relationship and have now come to a solution that the representative body is chaired by an executive, without the right to vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They even defined pay-receiving levels and that by the Law on the Payments of the Executive Authority, it was to avoid the possibility of a mutual blockade. Because imagine the situation of the city council being defiant and simply voting for the mayor to be a volunteer with some minimum fee. It could be very difficult to work. And that's exactly the kind of detail we're going to have to pay attention to when we pass the Law on local self-government, i.e. His changes. That's it. And I absolutely support the Law of Elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65530	Thank you very much. There should be no further discussion now. So let's get the votes together for the sake of it. We can take one break to five o'clock, by six o'clock, by five o'clock, by six o'clock, take a break, but please, let's be here as soon as possible. We would not vote on the amendments and additions of the Penal Code today because it is a little bit more to be embezzled with the Government, with some amendments, because it seems that some amendments may be accepted but in some other changed form, and some government decisions need to be made again, so we will leave it for that next week. So now we can, we have a break, and we can stay here until everyone... Then please stay here and we'll... ANNIGHT IN 17.50 HOURS Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue with a session and debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. It's the Honorable Representative Vlado Jelkovac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65532	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb is a major and significant newspaper compared to the current way of electing leading officials at local level. The paper for the reason that the choice of representative bodies, executive bodies has basically not changed since 1993, since those first elections, and based on the law of the previous year where municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors were elected from the ranks of members of the representative bodies. The executive authorities are thus only directly elected by voters, since their choice is primarily the result of political agreements, different political options and coalitions created locally. After all, I think that the citizens of the voters expect us to pass such a law because, nevertheless, most of the political parties in their pre-election activities have made such electoral promises that we will act on the next local elections, i.e. by making the basis of the direct choice of the first man at local level. I think it is good that in time we pass this Law and that we will have plenty of time to make one quality preparation and all possible misunderstandings to clear and resolve, and in particular by adopting the Law on Local Self-Government. I would just like to say some things, or some of my thoughts about the very text of the Law, or the very provisions of the Law. So I think that Article 4 is a good provision that has been amended in relation to the bill, where it is said that the right to be chosen has a person who has at least 6 months of registered residence in the home unit of local self-government. Because here, we also had experience in the near past that people who only two or three days before the election applied to a particular local self-government unit had run for office. So, for six months, I think it's a reasonable deadline and that it can already be considered to be a citizen of a specific city or municipality. Perhaps one dilemma related to Article 8 which speaks of the termination of the term of office. So he says, if the mandate ends in the calendar year in that unit, early elections will not be held but then it is said that the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the commissioner will be acted by his deputy. I would here, that dilemma about who's changing the appointed chief in some way, sort of analyzed it with two aspects. One is a political shift, and the other is the replacement of the commissioner in the event of his physical inability to act as mayor for sickness, physical prevention, for some justified reasons. So, if the mayor, mayor or mayor, for sickness or for some objective reasons, can't act on duty, then it's logical and normal to replace him. However, if he is politically changed, if he is, I don't know how it will be regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government, but I guess by a referendum. If he was removed after the referendum then he could not be replaced by his deputy, but by the government's commissioner for the reason it is a political shift, it is a political option. So it's about the team that came together, and for political reasons, I think they have to leave together. The other thing is, I'm saying, if it's because of the disease or some legitimate reason that the Chief couldn't behave, then the Deputy of course he could. Perhaps not in law, but in some sublaws, I also think that further clarification or definition of the provisions of Article 9 should be made. It is said that the mayor, the mayor, cannot be a member of the representative body of the same or other unit of local, or regional self-government. Perhaps I don't understand what this is about or what the legislator wanted to say, but I think it is necessary to clarify, therefore, whether the head of a municipality can be a member of the county assembly in his county. Could the mayor specifically be a municipal councilman in that microunity within the county. Whether or not the mayor or the mayor may be members of the county headship or of those relations. So, I think that within the State Administration Office, there should be a little further clarification for practical reasons because in this everyday life or in practice different situations and different interpretations occur. I'm saying, maybe this isn't a subject or anything can't be said in the law itself. But in some sublaws, I think you should say that. I support the changes compared to the first reading in Article 16 where the censorship for the number of signings for officials is increased, and what is regulated then by the size of a single unit of local self-government, because so far, mainly for these large cities, earlier there were over 40,000 now are 35 thousand, yet too little. Maybe some people don't get enough of this, but it's still better than it was before. Article 36 regulates the election process, saying among other things that after the first round, "if the second and third candidates on the list get the same number of votes and cannot determine which of them has the right to participate in the second round of elections, the election process will be repeated in full". This is a little illogical to me because that's how we punish the electoral winner. One who, in the first round, was theoretically possible, received 49% of the votes, but did not have enough votes, so 50% plus one vote, and now because the second and third in a row received maybe 10 or 15% of the votes suffered and the one who won 49% of the votes in the first round, and I think that in some way in this dilemma should be resolved by some... in the second round for the two, i.e. to find a better and fairer model by which one who received, for example, the most votes in the first round and who was first because of these two, would not have to go through the entire electoral procedure of running and all that was done by then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A similar situation is also in Article 39, where it is said that if one of the candidates who has the right to participate in the second election round dies in the time from the first round of elections to the second round of elections, the election process will be repeated in full. I don't see how I have to admit to any great logic in this provision. I suggest, and I think it would be much more practical if simply those first two who have the largest number of votes alive went into the second round. So, I don't know why you'd have to do the whole procedure again and go through the whole procedure. Just one more thing that may be technical, perhaps to think about what it means to us. The article 55 and Article 60, which states: “All members of the electoral committee or their deputies must be present during the term of the vote."and at the same time in Article 60, it is said that a voter who, due to serious illness, physical damage or general impediment, cannot come to the polls will inform the voter's board, and the chairman of the election board will appoint two members of the election board or a member who will visit and allow him to vote. If it is allowed to vote in a way that members of the electoral committee visit it at home, they cannot meet the provisions of Article 55(2) at the same time where the entire election commission must be, that we do not bring ourselves into this situation because such cases are in practice. So here we order that all must be in the polling post, and in the following article we say that members, two members of the electoral board should go to the voters who are unable to come to the polls and allow them to vote there. This is also what I end up with in article 63: "The register is signed by all members of the electoral committee". I would, however, add all the members of the election board or the deputies because this is not what anyone says that only the members of the electoral board will be, in the end, their deputies and that is what is happening in practice. I conclude that I think that this is a significant step and a significant change, but I think that this will, in spite of the ongoing shortcomings that will certainly improve the electoral system and local self-government. Of course, I also think it would have been better if he had gone along with the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, but what is there is and I think it is worth supporting this bill, that is, the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65533	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65534	Dear President, the honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I want to express my agreement with this and the desire and the intention to really, finally and legally put on the wish of citizens to directly elect the leaders of local self-government units. However, I must express my dissatisfaction or my disappointment with the fact that, for the second time, we are talking about a law relating to one single day and that third Sunday, in May of 2009, and that at the same time we have not allowed the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, municipal, county heads, city, municipal and county parliaments to consume and apply the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government adopted in October of last year, which entered into force on 8 November 2005. This Law, which was full of our mouths and decentralisation and increased powers and opportunities to solve citizens' problems, everyday citizens' problems. Therefore, under this Law, unfortunately the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or their indirectly elected representatives as the leaders of the units of local self-government cannot consume rights. I'm asking you now who's responsible for that not even after six months, after we've said that building permits will be issued in large cities and counties can't do that, that right can't happen? Who is responsible for the fact that, for example, public road maintenance is still going on in the old system even though we said on November 8th last year that county and large cities will be responsible for the maintenance of public roads? Who is responsible for the fact that cities cannot exercise the right to primary health care of their citizens because this law has confirmed it, but no other laws have been amended? The government here obviously wants us to discuss it again, so here we have and now in the public controversy can or will the mayors of 2009 be this or that without anyone discussing it, and the government does not give us the opportunity to discuss its proposals for legislation that will seem today for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which will seem to be tomorrow for citizens in local self-government units to really enable what the law allows, which we here have voted in the Parliament to enable them to provide better service, better service, public service to their citizens and to solve their problems and raise the quality of life. The second thing that comes into the eyes here is that the government practically gave the last day of the law into the procedure, so at the end of 6 months and then came up with 2 months after it practically essentially changed the law with its amendment and then, not only that, but it sent a message to the public that the government is giving up on replacing directly elected mayors. However, the government has not given up on it as it claims and says, because it itself states in its amendment that it has just given up on this law to regulate it. And that this power, authority or its desire to resolve directly elected mayors will be regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government and we might fall for this story that the government has given up on dispensing directly elected mayors but in the meantime the text has come to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, in which not only will the Government solve directly elected mayors but the Government and dispel directly elected mayors because it suggests that the representative bodies of the units decide on the incomes and expenditures of local self-government units. This means that what the chieftains are deciding on now will be decided by the representative bodies in the future, according to the proposal for the text of the law. If the bill is to be passed and so far we have not received a correction of the text that was under discussion in the Union of Cities. Unfortunately, it did not come to the Parliament although it would be logical that we were parallel to at least the two laws to discuss if not the other thirty-five, six how long it took us to define the status and position of units of local self-government and then elected representatives either in representative bodies or in the leading positions. Moreover, the law says that the representative body of the local self-government unit will be able to raise the issue of the unit leader of the local self-government if this one does not execute the decision of the representative body, which means that at each session of the city council, the municipal council or the county assembly, a procedure for the resolution of the directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor will be launched. So where are we going? Gentlemen, we're not talking about decentralisation here. We're not talking about mayors really getting the authority to manage local self-government units, but we're talking about making the mayor a ficus. The mayors will be able to decide. Citizens will be able to choose the mayor directly and the mayor will be able to decide who will be his head of office or office, where there will be a table in his office and where he will set up other ficuses in that office. It's just a question of how when citizens enter that office, they're going to distinguish the mayor from the ficus. Maybe by writing a ficus under one jar and under the other jar will be written by the mayor. Therefore, I suggest that this law goes either into third reading or that the Government gives up on it since we have enough time here by 2009 to discuss and adopt a package of the Law on Local Self-Government because citizens are not the most important or not the only way to choose a mayor but the only important or important way to solve their problems in the local self-government unit, whether and how to increase their quality of life in a single unit of local self-government. Well then, of course, it will be important for them to choose their representatives directly or indirectly. But if it's important to them how they choose the mayor, I guess it's important to them and how they choose the representative body. Well, I guess it's also important to them what the relationship between the representative body and the mayor will be. Or it's completely irrelevant. Or indeed someone thinks that only the mayor should be elected directly and then by all other laws and, in particular, by the election result of parliamentary elections and the election result of local elections, we will determine which powers will be so directly elected leaders of units of local self-government. And I really think that we need to abandon these demagogue laws to or accept jobs, allow local self-government to consume its rights that it already has, to determine the texts of the Local Self-Government Act, where we will define all of which will be tax revenues, which will be tax revenues, how the elected representatives will be, what their relationship will be, which will be the responsibility and powers of those representatives that the citizens will choose. Or simply, to put an end to such a job that only deceives us and us and the citizens that they will have something and neither we nor the government nor the citizens nor those chosen will know what will really be. By 2009, there is really enough time to come up with this package in a way and to discuss it in two, three public readings, professional, among citizens, and to come up with what the statements and needs of the units of local self-government and citizens are. Besides, 2009 is in three years. Doesn't anyone think life's gonna change by then? Until then, and because three years run won't be necessary for us to update some laws. So I suggest, and there's still a whole series of holes in this law, such as financing a campaign that's absolutely not solved, so since we already have mayors that we're going to choose to let's define, let's say, campaign funding. I therefore propose that this law goes either into third reading or that the Government withdraw it and propose a package of the Law on Local Self-Government which will apply from the third Sunday of May 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65535	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65536	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! It is an incorrect assumption that mayors are ficus or that they will be ficus because today and under current laws they have become very strong and recognizable mayors just the ones who are the best. And the new law also means that citizens want and think precisely through the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors will be guaranteed a better quality of life without those political struggles to slow down the work of good mayors, mayors and mayors. Therefore, this law should be adopted immediately and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65537	And another correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65538	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the incorrect assumption that this is demagogue law. It is certainly not the demagogue law, but the law most of the MPs in this House sought. However, what I see with my colleague Mršić is that he obviously has more powers now than he thinks he will have in the future. I think the fear of the council is unwarranted and the council also wants infrastructure as well as the mayors or mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65539	Honorable representative of Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65540	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues! Well, since 1999, we have been discussing the need to pass such a law and the need for directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors. Certainly, the local self-government at the level of the Republic of Croatia is developing in one good direction, and I believe that right now, it is immediately or a year after local elections that it is necessary to come up with a new bill of law, which is proposed by the Government of Croatia and definitely leaves enough time for the units of local self-government, political parties, individuals who want to compete in time to know under which conditions and under what conditions the upcoming local elections will be held in 2009. Of course it is always the responsibility in the first place and of course that the responsibility of the head man of the body of the unit of local self-government is such that it simply requires the person who will run and one right person, one true leader at the level of the unit of local self-government that can run certain processes at its level. And of course I believe that the direct selection of the head man of the unit of local or regional self-government will make local self-government more rapidly developed. Without a strong and powerful locomotive, it cannot be expected that the wagons will also go at the full speed through the tracks or through the tracks. That's why we need to resolve all the dilemmas we've had so far. I would not agree with the proposal of the Union of Cities and with the amendment that the mayor's mandate, the mayor and the mayor's mandate should be set at a time of 5 years. I would especially like to stress here that there is experience in European countries where the mayors and the mayors are directly elected for an 8-year term. So on a double term. And I believe it is appropriate to even consider the five-year term of office of the headman and the four-year term of office of the representative body. Of course, in this Bill proposal, the most qualitative solution for me is that the directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor is elected for the term of office of 4 years as long as the term of office of the representative body. A bill like this will give us greater authority in local self-government. We're going to get a better chance of creative work and we're going to get strong individuals I expect to be an engine or a locomotive in the development of local self-government units. Of course, in those units of local self-government where just such people are, and I believe that it will be the vast majority of local self-government units truly deserve to be motors, or they can carry that burden of responsibility in the executive position of local self-government units. Of course this, with one law, will be resolved and eternal doubt about the electoral winners. We have witnessed in several past years various trades of mandates where Bianca's resignations, as well as various combinations of minority parties, have been placed in a position to act as executives in various units of local self-government. And during the debate on the Law on Local Self-Government, I stressed this once more, and I will point out in this debate that it is unacceptable for me to make an example of 15 council mandates by one political party to win seven and seven other political lists to win eight mandates. That these seven political lists dominate the local self-government unit. Of course, we cannot view this as a firm will of voters in that unit of local self-government, and I hold that such a law on choice of direct, direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors and doubts will be resolved through the choice of local self-government leaders. And finally, I want to express my support for the adoption of this law and I remain convinced that this is one step forward in the development of units of local self-government because as strong as local self-government units are, the strong people of local self-government units will be as fast as we can and will go towards the European Union and to a higher standard. Because indeed, at European Union level, there is a great importance and great task in the bodies of local self-government because they are, units of local self-government are simply one engine of development on, in these smaller areas mainly in the rural area, and we must certainly do everything possible to develop local self-government and in Croatia according to European Union standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65541	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65542	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Clem, said it was good to know the rules for the election of mayors, mayors and mayors. That's not at all controversial. However, a respected colleague does not know the other rules of the game. I would also like to hear from the promoters now when will the other packages of laws that should be about decentralisation, about the financial independence of the local self-government units, because in this way we will never know how realistic promises and citizens will not know how realistic the promises of those who will come out as candidates for elections because nobody knows it? They'll be able to promise themselves as they've promised so often the hills and the valleys without knowing what they're going to do? It will turn out that whoever promises better, whoever promises more, will be chosen and realistically what he can do then he will say guilty is the state and it is the Parliament's fault as usual in Croatia to say that this is the way it goes. By the way. We don't know, and there are no rules for selecting municipal or city councils or county councils? What will be the law? The one that's worth it right now? Or someone else entirely, third? That is why it would be more realistic than the proposings and much more serious if it had come with a complete package of laws related to local and regional self-government, then we would have known the rules. In this way we're just investing a little bit in the public because we're going to say we have a direct choice, we don't know everything else, and it's probably going to depend, and I'm a little afraid of the results of the next parliamentary elections, so to whom it suits. I'd like to hear from you, too, because yet you're from the majority coalition, why you go with partial solutions and not with comprehensive solutions because then everyone knows a lot more and the whole public will know the rules of the game. Like this, I'm afraid of a partial measure. Here's something we've done to make and the government is obviously very late in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65543	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65544	Mr. Korenika, this is definitely the first step. I have absolute confidence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I know that the adoption of this law binds itself and changes or the adoption of a new law on local self-government. There's something we need to start with. This coalition, which today makes up the majority in the Croatian Parliament, has simply accepted this way of electing leaders in units of local self-government and I expect that the Law on direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors will be absolutely harmonised with all the necessary laws that need to be amended or new adopted, concerning local self-government until the upcoming local elections. So, 2009. There is no doubt that it will be brought. If any delay in passing such a law would imply something else that we don't want. We want to keep our pre-election promise, we want, of course, that what we have promised in this mandate and we achieve, and I believe that there will be no political force after the upcoming parliamentary elections that will seek to put this law out of place. Because I believe that there has been enough critical mass in Croatia to support absolutely such a bill. So, the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65545	The second replica, the respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65546	Dear colleague Clem, you said this law would finally resolve the question of electoral winners, right? That's absolutely not true, is it, because this law will only solve how we choose the leaders of local self-government units. But maybe you do, and then you tell the citizens that the government predicts that representative bodies are being abolished, so they'll be only the leaders of the local self-government unit. There will be no representative bodies and indeed when you choose the mayor you will know the electoral winner. Because according to this, when you select a directly elected mayor where it is perfectly normal and logical for the representative body not to be a representative of political parties or independent lists or an independent individual who is mayor, which means that the representative body can have a completely different political composition from the head of the unit of local self-government. And only then will it be known who is the electoral winner, because according to what the government proposes at every city council session, they will be able to demand the recall of such a mayor. So who can work in terms of every session asking for your recall? Is that something we stand for? Is that what we stand for, and maybe you did promise that to the citizens, right? Maybe it's you, I don't know what your pre-election program was like. You may have promised the citizens that the mayors would be elected directly, but that they would not have any authority. Maybe it's yours, and maybe it's your pre-election promise to make it happen. But this does not give me any confidence that you will amend any other law, because you should have already proposed 35 laws that would allow citizens to apply the Law on Local Self-Government that came into force in November. How can we if you don't have the strength to put it in the process? How can we even believe you're gonna do any of this? This as it suggests, we can choose mayors by beauty, because it doesn't matter what they know or don't know how to do because they won't have any powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65547	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65548	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have a second reading before us, so the Final Proposal of the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. If we adopt this bill, Croatia would therefore join almost all European Union countries that directly elect local and regional self-government leaders. If we remember the pre-election campaign for the 2000 parliamentary elections, almost all parliamentary parties promised citizens that if they adopted power, they would change the electoral law and give citizens a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors. Unfortunately, we must conclude that, although the former coalition government amended the election law for local and regional self-government in 2001, it did not allow citizens to directly elect municipal mayors, mayors and mayors. So that promise wasn't done. It should be said the same way as this government has promised at the beginning of the term of office, but here is now the proposal to directly or directly elect local leaders this government still keeps an election promise. This proposal is also a guarantee that it will no longer definitely be elected under the old electoral law. The direct elections are the reality of this proposal. This is good because for a long time there has been public dissatisfaction with this electoral law that allows manipulation with the will of citizens expressed in the elections. Because a law that allows parties to trade in the voices of these same citizens clearly needs to be changed. It should be noted that all local elections so far, and this applies to parliamentarians simply not to power, but to the most successful politicians and staff, but to the most relevant negotiators and traders, who, by the will of the voters, are still bound by the fate of those same voters. I believe that the last local elections, but also recently repeated elections in three units of local and regional self-government have fully fulfilled their purpose, because things have led to absurdity because most of the authorities have not composed those who have won the highest number of mandates but those who have been with everything and everyone willing to trade. The very fact that it will no longer be chosen under the law that allows citizens to directly elect mayors I think, by directly choosing it, the goal has been achieved. I would like to believe that this proposal of the Law on the Elections of Local Areas and Leaders will never, again, be helpless to see the councilors elected in one coalition move to another and give support to a rival candidate, immorally changing and acting in this way the will of the voters. It is also good that the Government has refused to replace or resolve the elected mayors and mayors directly on the final draft of the law, and that the issue of the resolution of the directly elected local leaders and their deputies will be decided and regulated by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Since the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is a fundamental law when it comes to this legislation, and here it is stressed that it has already been built and discussed with the Union of Associations, Cities and municipalities, and that a harmonised and accepted solution by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not resolve the mayors, mayors and mayors and their deputies. I think it would be very good if that proposal arrived at the Parliament as soon as possible. If we do all this when it comes to electoral legislation, it won't be enough, because it's no secret that we have one of the worse election laws and that we need a full reform of electoral legislation. Because what do you say to the parliamentary elections that hundreds of parties go to? It's not in any more serious countries. Or elections for the President of the Republic to which, without any selection with ease, 15 candidates come out? This should not be indicated to us today by those who have been living well for too long, looking at the development of democracy in Croatia on behalf of the European Union. It's just not good, and we need to change it ourselves. For all these reasons, I plead that the Government continues and proposes a full reform of the electoral legislation so that we do not have any discrepancies in laws and illogicality. For example. The Law on Elections does not allow mayors to be representatives. While, according to this proposal, candidate candidates would be possible for mayors and mayors. I believe that it is not good because the direct election of the municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors strengthens local self-government, and this still leads to some conflict of interest in the conduct of the parliamentary representative and executive head, local authorities. Therefore, Article 9 of this proposal should extend incompatibility to both municipal and mayoral mayors and mayors. In addition, this would reduce the accumulation of functions. This would also allow for more independent and responsible functioning of local and regional self-government units. I would like to reiterate that the direct or direct elections for municipal mayors, mayors and mayors are that what almost all parliamentary political parties have promised, that is what the vast majority of Croatian citizens want, and that is why politics, i.e. The Croatian Parliament should pass a law that allows citizens to do so. One thing's for sure. That this bill will greatly increase citizens' interest in going to local elections. And also elected leaders will have much greater legitimacy. That's why I think this bill should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65549	Replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65550	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I have to replicate my colleague because already in several debates, what kind of majority is it if more parties or more lists participated in the elections are involved. It seems to me that we are violating some of the fundamental principles of democracy. Most of them are if they have more than 50% of their mandates in the representative body. So, ha, here he is, colleague Mršić says well, let's look at most of the Parliament. It's pretty wide, too. But we have something else. If when it comes to manipulation, the manipulation after local elections, it was not because someone has such or such a majority, but because some elected councilors went past the voter's will to other parties. It's the essence of things. But the fact that most of those who put together have power. Is that okay with anyone? We all tend to, so can I, not to be too smart to be around here right now, we all fight and say that there isn't when it suits us. But if we want democracy, democracy is the majority that manages to impose. And let us not be horned against it, but against trade in mandates, against those who, for money, for promises or for something else from one party, turn into another. Besides, I'm curious when you're already talking so much that the MPs shouldn't be mayors, mayors and mayors, if that's your position or your club, why didn't the government put it in the bill? I think we're talking one thing, for the public, it's going to echo very nicely in public. When it comes to the proposal and the legal text, it suddenly evaporates. Well, I'd like you as a club to support the amendment you're going to be in, so the parliamentary duty is incompatible with people. There, there was, there's a mandate like that. I'm afraid it'll only remain empty words for the public. When we make a statement about it, of course, as usual nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65551	Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65552	Mr. Korenika, I can tell you that in HDZ it's been working for two years. So, I was mayor, and when I got here, elected to the Croatian Parliament, I resigned, so I'm not acting like one. I hope it goes into the law and it happens. As far as I'm concerned, when I was talking about the majority, I was talking about the rule, as a rule, that party that gets most of the mandates doesn't usually participate in the formation of power, as a rule. That means some others are very good merchants. If we remember the last local elections, then you need to know that one party that didn't deserve well by lobbying and trading had almost 8.8 seems to me mayor, right. So, I'd like to believe that this law will no longer be possible. And another thing, but you'd already speculate and guess why, even though you promised to do this big job in 2000, you didn't do it. So you didn't want to because you believed that you would certainly get very good if you didn't do better in the local elections than you did in the parliamentary year 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65553	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65554	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. If we have in mind everything that has been happening lately on our political scene, we will all agree with the finding as we have heard today in this debate, that the existing Election Law has a series of weaknesses and that it needs to be changed. In their weak exit to the polls, citizens have sent a clear message, are not satisfied with the possibility of exercising their rights at local level, they themselves cannot significantly influence the creation of local politics, the development of the municipality, the city or county in which they live, so they do not see what the purpose of going to the polls is, moreover, that, after the elections have been made, their choice by a variety of political trades and combinations is clearly expressed in their will, so it is happening that someone with a minimal number of votes is acting as the leader. How to restore citizens' trust and motivate them to consume one of their basic rights, which is the right to choose and be elected. The constitution says citizens have the right to local administration and self-government, but it is also the fact that we are still a very centralised state. Although the decentralisation process has begun, units of local self-government have increased, but this has not been accompanied by the necessary financial resources. In addition, units of local self-government have remained without a significant part of their property, and therefore municipalities, cities and counties often are not able to address their citizens' daily problems in quality, and all of them create a sense of inability for citizens to have any impact on solving problems in their community and the result of such feelings is the pasivation of voters. How to ensure that citizens have a more direct impact on the exercise of their rights? One way is to ensure the direct selection of the mayors, mayors and mayors as proposed by the law which is the subject of this debate today. This will certainly lead to a higher level of personalization, but also responsibilities. This will increase citizens' interest in the elections because they will directly influence the selection of the main people of their municipalities, the city, or the county. The directly elected executive institution in the local self-government unit performs its legitimacy in this case from the immediate will of voters, not from the will of political parties and then cannot happen as we now in practice have a variety of political trades in the main positions come people from those political parties who have a minimum number of council members in the representative body and then present it as the voter's will. Of course, all this leads to frequent government crises and the need to repeat elections, which, of course, is not good because it interferes with the normal functioning of the local administration unit. This bill would eliminate the problem in part. There is no doubt that the application of the direct choice system of the Executive Authority will contribute to a higher level of political stability of the representative body and thus to the effectiveness of the executive authority, however, some other very important issues and dilemmas are now being opened, and this is primarily the relationship between the representative body of the executive authority in order to ensure the cooperation of the executive authority and the representative body. I therefore believe that it is a shame that, together with this bill, we are not also discussing the proposal for a law on local and regional (regional) self-government that should determine precisely these relations between the representative and the executive authorities, i.e. as my colleagues before me, which we are not discussing today a whole set of laws that regulate this area. Article 4 of the proposed law says that the right to be elected as municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb has all voters who have at least six months of registered residence in the area of the local unit, or the area of regional self-government in which elections are held. In this way, the legislator wanted to prevent all those manipulations that were in practice when individuals were fictitiously registering their residences in certain cities, or municipalities, and in reality they lived in another city, or municipality. One who wants to be mayor or municipal chief, or mayor, must live in the area for which he is running because that is the only way he can fully feel and recognize the problems that citizens and local communities face on a daily basis. However, I believe that the six-month deadline is too short and should be determined to be at least a year. I also believe that, for offenders of this provision, the legislator should provide for certain sanctions and penalties to prevent the different abuses of this provision in practice. Criminal provisions provide for fines only for cases of violations of electoral silence, and for some other offences no criminal provisions are provided for. The municipal mayors and mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb shall have deputies who shall be elected together and at the same time in the same manner and in the same procedure, as set out in Article 2(2). Furthermore, Article 7 states that the term of office of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb may cease before the term of office expires in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing local and regional (regional) self-government and the provisions of this law. Further in Article 8(1), it is said that if the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb ceases before the term of office, early elections will be discussed. And I'm now asking what if the term of office for certain reasons stops their deputies, and the people in charge of the mandate didn't stop. Whether early elections are discussed in these cases for one and the other functions, means for the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor and their deputies, or to discuss elections only for the deputy whose term of office has ceased before the deadline. It is not clear from this proposal how such cases will be handled in practice and I repeat once again that it is a pity that we are not discussing both the proposal and this bill and the proposal for a law on local and regional self-government today. Furthermore, Article 8 of paragraphs 4 and 5 states that, in cases where the term of office ceases, the mayor, the mayor and the mayor of the City of Zagreb and their deputy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint a commissioner in such situations to act as mayor, mayor or mayor until the elections are carried out. I believe that a much better solution would be for the representative body of that unit of local and regional (regional) self-government to appoint a person who will complete the mandate and act as a duty until the election of a new municipal chief, mayor, or mayor. Such a solution would also be much more democratic in the spirit of the amendments proposed by this Law on Direct Elections, as it would further respect the will of the voters of a particular municipality, the city, or county, because the representative body to which they had given their trust in the elections would be determined by the Commissioner and would not impose that decision on the Government by their decision. Furthermore, I believe that the solution proposed in Article 16 under which the rightfulness of party and independent candidates, the candidacy for the municipal mayor, mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb, is really not good or at least, I do not think that it is fair. Because it's not the same to collect 500 signatures in a city that has an example. Three thousand inhabitants as well as in a city that has, I say by heart, say, 30,000 inhabitants. Therefore, I believe that this article should be amended in a way that prescribes the obligation to collect a certain percentage of the number of people in the only candidate. And finally, I also believe that this final bill does not fully address the issues of financing election promotion. Article 30 states that election promotion is financed from own resources and gifts from domestic, natural and legal persons. The following article lists all candidates who are not allowed to receive gifts, but is nowhere defined as a donation, there are no limits to the amount of donations, restrictions on campaign spending, issues of anonymous donations. In addition, it is not specified what effect that candidate is suffering from which he does not submit a report on sources and the amount of funds collected to finance the electoral promotion within the scheduled time limit. In fact, I believe that the issue of campaign financing in all elections should be regulated in general, and this should be the subject of a single law on the financing of election campaigns. And I think it's also one way to regain voter trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65555	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65556	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. So the first thing I have to say, normally, is that I support the direct choice of both the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, and I support both the direct choice and the Prime Minister because it would probably be the will of the Croatian voters to conduct appropriate surveys. So, I support these direct elections, but I say, why don't we also talk about the direct election of the Prime Minister when I believe that part is also most interesting for Croatian citizens because these are the places where the future is actually decided, the present of Croatian citizens, meaning, and all other inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. But I don't support this bill because it looks like a close encounter of the 3rd kind to me. There's talk of something happening. When it happens, how it will happen now we do not know because we only have one part that is important for us and Croatian citizens, so Croatian voters can get the impression that and in what way they will express their will to directly choose means those leaders. So they can see what it'll look like. So the most important thing is that we now do not have one codified legal text where there will be not only these provisions contained in the bill's proposal but that it will be the part that is very important, i.e. the representative body and directly elected head, whether it is the head of the municipality, the mayor, the mayor. Not to mention all the other issues that matter for such an operation, whether it's a municipality, a city or a county. And now there, there's a lot of that word spent. So I don't think this is really mature to bring. The third reading should be done, but not the third reading should only be done on the basis of what is contained in this Bill proposal, but in one legal text, everything codifies and solves all the relationships that can be achieved. I can, for example, give you a simulation of the proposed provisions of the law where they can lead these legal solutions to absurdities, totally to absurdities, that it is possible that in some smaller municipality elections take place, take place and take place, and so that the budget of the municipalities is spent solely to hold elections. Let's say for example, an imaginary municipality, let's call it Mrudova High, and now they've run for, say, a former minister from the Croatian government, a former minister from the so-called so-called Minister of State. The government of Saokraine, and let's say the mailman returns from Australia. And it's a small environment where they have all their families and it's known how and how family relationships are different. And there are two families who judge in all these relationships. And according to this rule of law, if we simulate it, it's possible that they're going to the first round for a few months. A few months can go to the first round because these two crucial families, and they have the same impact, are likely to get the same number in the first round, for example, votes. Then what? Then it's going to repeat the whole procedure. Then there's a possibility that one of them might be able to separate himself a little bit, these two have the same number of votes. Then it's happening again from the beginning. Well, then the situation changes that whoever was second now becomes the first, but the second and the third get the same number of votes. And it can take a while. And let's say, let's say, after a half-year or up to a year, they choose him, but the representative body has already been elected, and there have been various relationships, and already at the first session, as the colleague said, they are looking for his mistrust, the mayor. And now we're going to go to the referendum and the mayor's referendum is able to promise this family, something's going to be resolved, and he gets a trust referendum. So, we're going to have to go into the selection of the representative body again, but since it's a small environment, everybody knows, there's another logic going on and now there's a difference again that the same kind of presidential body is elected. So in the re-election for the representative body again comes to the same power relationship and they go to replace that mayor again. And so I can, I lead it to absurdity where they will all the time just choose and choose and choose and nothing will be in that environment, they will be dissatisfied with, say, parishioners because no one will come to church... choose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The middle will be totally involved in the election, nothing will be solved. Here they are, that simulation is the one that's possible, and right is always important and simulate what we want. Now the question is whether we, whether it's really going to take so many laps or if we're going to go to the variant when we put it all in one place, when we see the relationship between the representative body and everything else that might be enough just one lap. Because it is possible, according to the solutions, that we can truly repeat this incessantly and mainly with this part of the referendum so that the entire mandate can even be the whole term. It is theoretically possible for the whole term to vote and eventually there will be a variant that the municipality will join with another municipality and then the whole circle will start again from scratch. Because there's going to be a new community or let's say that they're going to join one city and then they're going into another variant where there's not going to be these three characters, but some other characters are going to come and we're going to bring the situation to the absurd that they're doing their will all the time, the immediate will, but there's no, the legal situation is that, and the legal solutions are so that it's happening over and over again so we're going to go back to the first round, and then we're going back to the first round, and then we're going to go back to the same situation again, and we're going to get it back directly selected, but the representative body has changed its opinion about it, and then we're still asking the government to help her because there's no more money to hold so many choices. Here's one of the scenarios that is possible if these provisions are simulated and we end up bringing this whole will of voters into an absurd situation because we don't have everything ready in one place. If we had everything ready in one place it might be enough to mean other than the Prime Minister to put... , choice, see if maybe, whether it takes so many laps, if two have the same number of votes again all repeat all over again or will be determined... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] either as in some other variants or alphabetical lists or in any other way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can really do this in small areas to make it absurd for the same people to have the same number of votes, even three can have the same number of votes, and then two have meanings, but it's repeated over and over again under the law. Therefore, it would be far smarter to delay the resolution of this issue with one real simulation and to prepare everything simply for Croatian voters to understand what it is, what it will be like for you, because, objectively speaking, it will strengthen the function directly. So we have both now and mayor and here in Parliament and mayors who essentially have greater powers de facto, not de iura than they will have according to the solutions that will one day be made. So, third reading, but with a complete codification and a proposal for all these regulations, because this really doesn't lead to anything. It would be wiser to deal with what is more direct, and this is now the issue of holding parliamentary elections so that this variant does not happen that after the parliamentary elections then will be discussed in this assembly that parliamentary elections will be held in, say, 2011, and this seems to be a normal situation with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65557	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65558	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's colleague Kovacevic in a series of incorrect quotes in style, which would be if he said so, for example. It's incorrect not to know when this law will happen. Article 96 correctly states when this Law will happen. Then, it is incorrect that the vote will be repeated throughout the mandate, so in infinity because I think that one small part will be solved in the first round, but everything will be solved in the second round, maybe one single case of 6 hundred and I don't know 560 examples. Furthermore, it is not true that the commissioners, that the commissioners will have less authority than they have now. Now they have heads of state who make a decision, and the fact that some mayors, the mayors, have taken great powers and we all admire them, that's another thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65559	Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65560	Thank you. I wouldn't comment on this scenario from Mr. Middle, but I would like to comment on this proposal to introduce a direct election of the Prime Minister. If you were to introduce this, you would actually introduce a presidential system, you would choose a person like the United States, let's say what they have, then you would have a president of the state who would have the competencies that he had in the presidential system, and that would mean dictating what we have. This idea if you're gonna get... chooses the mayor or mayor if they have or don't know who this one is, then you might suggest the idea of being one this morning, and from noon on, to be two, say, mayors or mayors, that it would be the most just. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I would, I support the direct election of the mayors, mayors and mayors, I think that's good, it's an initiative from before and it's good to go towards the realization of that because of the fact that we're avoiding the domestic situation like that in Split that we have a mayor against whom 82% of the citizens voted in these past elections against, i.e. they didn't vote for him even though the lists were personalized. I don't think that's gonna happen in the future if we pass this bill or step into this, so with all the flaws, corrections, repairs, etc. that we go to that area where citizens will really decide who their mayor, mayor and mayor will be, not that they intend to trade parties, lists, party lists, individuals, traders, sellers, their own longer, foreign votes, etc. There are impossible solutions for a man with several percent of the votes won to be mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65561	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the gallery has the delegation of our friends colleagues and colleagues from the Moldovan Parliament who are on a multi-day study trip and visiting the Croatian Parliament, committees, and they are discussing our colleagues and colleagues. Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65562	So look, dear Mr. Jurovic, let's do a survey and we'll ask the Croatian citizens and Croatian voters if they are for the direct election of the Prime Minister and then according to. It's the same will of the voters. I'm the one we're talking to or they're saying why don't we pick it out? Look, it's a far stronger situation than the Middle One's choice of chief. Come on, isn't that the situation? Ask. It doesn't mean it's a presidential or semi-presidential system, you understand, but if it's the voter's will why and that part doesn't... That's the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You misunderstood me about this part of the draw, that's what I was saying not to your case and the case of the mayor of Split so that you would be in the afternoon, he'd be in the morning, but the variant if in the first round the other two got the same number of votes and then it could happen in that part of mine, and that's why there's that part that has to be simulated to see what's going on. There's a variant that really happens two or three times that two other people who got the same number of votes and then we're gonna go over and over and over again that first round of choices, that we're never gonna get to... the choice so then there's a possibility and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, maybe you'll get in the second round. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65563	And the vice president is also vice presidents of the parliament and president of the parliament in the elections. Everyone to the election. Honorable representative of Ivica Clem, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65564	Mr. President, Mr. Pero and Representative Pero Kovacevic have stressed multiple choices, choices and so on. In this part, I remind us that we have had several re-elections at the level of the units of local self-government that we held last year, so we already have such an election cycle conspired under the existing law where we do not have defined leaders in the units of local self-government. Here is certainly Mr Kovacevic's responsibility to the largest or strongest political parties to work on a little and to mark the political scene at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia and I think it is good to start from local self-government where we will no longer be able to simply hold elections in small areas as you mentioned there will be fourteen or fifteen lists of party leaders in local self-government units. It is very likely that there will be such situations where the head man in the representative body will either be the mayor, mayor or mayor to represent one political option and be elected by the citizens to that position and the representative body can be made up of another political option. I don't see anything tragic about it. Moreover, I think we will also develop dialogue in this way and achieve a more quality communication at the level of the local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65565	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65566	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm going to say a little bit. I am only an esteemed colleague, I have responsibly simulated one situation which could happen and it is always the obligation of all those who do regulations and simulate and see how it is possible to turn this one good will of voters into an absurd. And now I can tell you more about it. It is possible that you have at least 107 lists for elections in every environment because there are 107 political parties currently registered in Croatia without independent lists. Well, if I'd put that part in, then it would've been even more absurd. I went to solutions that weren't appropriate. Let's say, I don't know if you've seen a variant of why, say, active military personnel are forbidden to be candidates and all politicians, both the president of the state and the Prime Minister can be candidates, so they'll decide. Are the constitutional-legal equals? They're not constitutionally equal. Why are they excluded, for example, by active military personnel, from being able to run and if elected in the end to decide what duty they will be. Here, let's say I could still simulate various situations. My intention is to get a law that will be applicable where we will not bring with various situations that happen in Croatia to many solutions to absurdities, and it is possible to bring them, even if I don't talk about serial numbers. In the smaller environments, it is possible to track who received a number and voter's ballot and react to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65567	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65568	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When citizens of voters in a city comment on the conditions to be met under the proposal of this law by a candidate for mayor or mayor or mayor in respect of the time of residence in that city, municipality or county and before running for a stop in this proposal where Article 6 states that candidates have at least six months of registered residence in the area of the local self-government unit in which the election is carried out. I guess that's even more pronounced in the municipalities because it's about smaller environments in which most people know each other personally. The deadline may seem too short, especially since the registered residence does not guarantee that the person lives there. In that short time, not all the streets or at least the more important ones can know, know where they are and let alone something more. On the other hand, everything can be compensated by the proposed programme, a good candidate programme that the electoral body will recognise or not. The direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors, and mayors of Zagreb eliminates the possibilities which so far must be recognised and were very much burdened by the work to be the same, so let's say the hostages of the council or the assembly. This hostage, however, is subject to conditions while on the other hand all responsibility, criticism, objections are similar to going to or going to the mayor’s address, or the mayor’s or mayor’s. When it comes to the selection of deputy mayors, mayors or mayors, who are elected together and at the same time, in the same way and in the same procedure, shall avoid post-election games which have thus far been very present in post-election coalition agreements. And we have to admit, and I'm not going to say anything new, it's very burdensome relationships or mostly burdened relationships, and in a way it tied its hands to the mayor himself, the mayor or the mayor himself. And there was always fear for these or those reasons during the replacement that something might not go in the unwanted direction. Of course, that's possible in this way of choice, but the assumption is to a much smaller extent. In particular, it should be pointed out that relations between such elected mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors with councils or congregations must be defined up to the minimum in order to avoid any possible misunderstandings. The borderline possibility is that the elected mayor, mayor or mayor on the one hand and the council or parliament on the other hand, or the majority in the council or assembly, should be made out of completely opposed political options and that the whole story then comes down to this possible conflict. That's what must be avoided at all costs. Each of the chosen must bear its share of authority and responsibility within what the law allows and commands. However, it would be wrong to interpret this proposed election marginalising the role of councils or congregations. No, just puts all things in the right place, creates preconditions for this, and the other announced legal acts will address the issue of powers and responsibilities of both sides. This is certainly a radical change of system, it is essential in relation to the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the executive in local and regional self-government, and for these reasons I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65569	Thank you. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65570	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The final proposal for the Law on the Elections of Municipal Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is before us. At first, I can say that I accept this direct way of electing the mayor because it is repeatedly more and expressed by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Under this bill, if clearly adopted in 2009, citizens will be elected directly by municipal mayors, mayors and mayors, and by the majority of voters who voted. This electoral system at local level will be clearly in line with internationally recognised principles and the current rules of the Western European electoral system, and we will accept suggestions, wishes and will for citizens to be elected directly by municipal and mayors and mayors. The system of local self-government since 1992, when introduced on several occasions, has been changed, and the electoral system has gradually shifted from majority to proportional system. However, the choice of the executive authority has not practically changed until today, and this means that, after the elections, a representative body that is then elected by the holders of the executive authority, mayor and headship would be established. This way of elections, executive power is only directly elected by voters since their election is primarily the result of political agreement, various political options represented by the representative body. This in practice, as we know and know, leads to the political instability of the representative body, as well as the ineffectiveness of the executive authority, and what has been mirrored in the repetition, with frequent repetitions of the elections to political trade, and we can also tell the counterfeiting of post-election, the will of citizens by post-election arrangements. It is clear that all of this indicates the need to amend the existing law and, in the direction of the direct election of citizens of the mayors, mayors and mayors. With this bill that is before us for the first time, we are introducing practically into the political system of the Republic of Croatia the direct election of the mayors and mayors, which is certainly a big newspaper and significance. This is the political system that we introduced back in 1990, in 1992, which is the only thing that matters more. The change in the choice of the executive authority certainly strengthens the position of the mayor, mayor and mayor. The directly elected executive head will now extract his legitimacy, extract from the directly expressed will of the voters, rather than from the political will of the political parties represented in the representative body. Surely this requires that such a stronger position of the headman also requires redefining his powers and obligations to change the relationship between the head man of the executive authority and the representative body. One of the important issues regarding the representative body and the executive authority is the procedure and recalls the directly elected leader, the head of the executive authority. This is the case in Article 12. The law prescribed, among other things, that the Government will also relieve the mayor, mayor and mayor at the request of the representative body, which has caused a lot of controversy in the public... It is also good that the Government has proposed, by its amendment, to delete this article on the grounds that this issue will be resolved by specific law or amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that this bill of law draft has already been discussed in the Alliance of Cities and Municipalities. It would be good if we could fully look at this problem that this bill of law is also in discussion with this proposal. But I believe that this law will make a good deal of this relationship. I will also point out here that a lot of controversy has caused Article 16. Proposal for a law, which prescribes the obligation to collect a number of signatures for validity as party and independent lists. I think it's a good idea to determine the exact number of signatures needed so we don't have a dilemma here that we know exactly before collecting the signatures as many as necessary, and I think it's a good idea to prescribe and that the party lists should collect a certain number of signatures. This is about local elections, and there are cases in practice that the political parties who do not have their membership in this political unit are also going to go out with their lists, and it is also good to confirm them with the required number of signatures. In my view, the most significant features of this amendment to the law are that, which will respect the voter's will, his voice and political choice, which will certainly lead to citizens' confidence regaining their ability to influence political and economic life. And the professional public is committed in this sense. It believes that the direct election of the executive authority will contribute to the political stability of the representative body and thus to an effective authority. And finally, to conclude: it is certain that these amendments to the law will allow citizens to have a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors. That it will allow for further democratisation of the electoral process, stabilising political relations and enabling the executive authority to act effectively. For these reasons, I will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65571	Thank you. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65572	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, what we're going to get by adopting this law is certainly a significant step, but the question is, what direction is this step going to take? Is that going to be quite a shift forward or are we going to enter into a phase of vague relations in local self-government? We'll see about that, of course. It is a pity that the law is not proposed and the law on local self-government that would then be more clear, precisely determines the relations of representative bodies and in this way directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors. Otherwise, the question is, of course, very, very open. The direct election of mayors is a general trend in Europe, however, it is not quite as dominant this hour as you can say here. Nearly half of European countries still have an indirect choice of mayors. It's only for us to examine the real possibilities of this, and so I say it's a shame that we're not in full approach, and that means with this other law, we've already tried to define it on this occasion. That's why it's hard to support this law at this stage. This is just one political declaration and nothing, nothing more. When we talk fully about elections and election legislation of the Republic of Croatia, then the question arises. If we have decided more or less as a systematic determination of the authorities, but more under public pressure to go directly to the mayor's choice, then why not go to the direct selection of municipal councilors and why not go to the direct selection of parliamentary representatives. If this is a general tendency, if we believe it could help improve democratic communication in the country, why not do so immediately. What is the difference in legitimacy, in the attractiveness of the electoral process when it comes to the election of parliamentary deputies in relation to the election of municipal chiefs and commissioners, and can be equally concerned by the election of municipal councilors and members of the county parliaments. What seems almost certain to me is that this law is indisputable that it will bring, increase citizens' participation in local self-government, as the Council of Europe said in its recommendation two years ago. This will certainly dynamic relations in local self-government, resulting in citizens being more interested in the choice, and then is expected to follow, of course, the entire process of local self-government. It would be bad for citizens to be animated during the elections, and in fact, they're not really interested in the process of deciding their interests and their fate about their lives anymore. That certainly wouldn't be a good consequence of this law. But some of the other advantages this model could bring us just really need to examine. One of the points of this Council of Europe recommendation states that the direct choice of mayors will increase the independence of the assembly and thus lead to the separation of the executive and representative authorities, which is certainly desirable and a sign of the high development of democracy. But if it's going to be that way, that's the question. It depends on how we regulate elections for municipal councils, or councils of cities and county parliaments. Namely, if a strong mayor is elected as a candidate in the direct elections, while at the same time carrying a list that will be a candidate list for the same representative body where he will be mayor, it may weaken the representative body rather than lead to its increase. So these are just some of the issues that are being raised by this proposal, and it's really a shame that we didn't have the strength that at the time we approached this political declaration, this can't be called reform, but it's certainly a significant step. So, when we approached the realization of this if we hadn't gone to complete realisation of relations between the representative body and thus created a desirable balance that would therefore increase citizens' interest, the participation of citizens in monitoring the process in local self-government, but also lead to a balanced relationship between mayors and clearer relations between the representative body and mayors which, of course, does not necessarily have to be this positive consequence here. What needs to be emphasized here in particular is to look beyond what is actually happening with the system of our local self-government and with decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. This procedure is certainly not decentralisation. This is the focus of citizens on a part of the political process that will take place on local self-government but real decentralisation is the transfer of powers and of course financial resources and I must say it is finally clear that in this term the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no talk about making significant moves to strengthen local self-government and decentralisation of the country. It's a pretty sad fact. Decentralisation and strengthening of local self-government is a step that is certainly coming to us. We should have done it a long time ago. In this sense, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party has proposed a series of legislative proposals and proposals to analyse the process. But it is evident that after two and a half years of the government's term of office, there is no saying that a more significant step could be expected in the next year and a half in terms of strengthening local self-government. It is a big move and, of course, that in the last year and a half, if the government's mandate goes to the end, there is neither political logic nor political power to make some significant shifts towards decentralisation of the country, and in fact there is one possibility of improving our entire political system and I must, in that sense, show great regret that this has not happened. The government adopted the country's 2004 decentralisation framework programme. The government has appointed the Commission for its implementation, but it is clear that so far we have no proposed laws in this sense that any more significant shift will not occur. I can even say that in some segments such as the education system, the appointment of school boards, the laws that we passed last year even took place in a negative sense, and that means raising powers to the worse rather than by the principle of subsidiarity as much power as possible descending to lower levels where they can be satisfied in the best way. Croatia should always stress this, one of Europe's most centralised countries. If decentralised functions and balancing funds are rejected where local self-government actually only appears as a central government transmission, then the total public funds spent at the level of local self-government units are about 10%. If we know that almost half of those 10% make up the City of Zagreb, which is itself a highly centralised city in which there is almost no local self-government. If the same situation is with Osijek and Rijeka and Split, which are also highly centralised cities, then, in fact, for real local self-government, Croatia remains almost 5% of all public funds, and the average of Europe is about 25% and some countries, especially Scandinavian countries at the level of local self-government spend up to 50% of all public funds collected and spent, and these are real issues. So this law, in the sense of making one step, is more psychological than real because we don't know what's going to come out of it at the end, can certainly be one opening of a new window. But we have again declared something, and the real issues of decentralisation of the country, strengthening local self-government, stronger citizens' focus and participation in local self-government, and that means also in political life in general. Unfortunately, we didn't achieve this law either. We need to see what happens to the announced amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government when relations between such directly elected mayors and representative bodies are attempted. But for now, this negative assessment remains that we could have done it in greater, but now in this step. In particular, the assessment remains that it is definitely clear in the 4 years of the term of office, despite the decentralisation framework programme, despite the commission set up by the government, since the decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia in this term, unfortunately there will be nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65573	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65574	Well, I'd like to replicate my colleague, Radosha, on his thesis that there is no announcement of decentralisation, not that there is no announcement of decentralisation, but that she will not be. Because the 2007 budget projections tell us in 2008 that there will be no redistribution of taxes. Therefore, budget shares will remain the same, i.e. smaller for local self-government units than they were in 2005 for example. Because if you have 300 thousand kuna in the Croatian Roads budget for the County Road Administrations in 4 years, then we can't talk about increasing the amount of decentralised funds, that it even keeps at the same level because in 2008, you won't be able to make 300 thousand, 300 million kuna and maintain roads as you can in 2005. And finally, Minister Schuker recently announced that there is no tax reform until 2009. So, regardless of what the government, or the full mouth of the government and in the ruling parties are decentralisation, there is nothing of it. Because this government does not want, unlike the last government which is part of the tax revenue, to be redistributed, we will agree insufficiently, but for the first time part of the common taxes has been redistributed to the units of local and regional, regional, self-government. This government once again, I don't know which way it says, we don't even swear any more for local self-government, unless the mayors won't win, we're going to challenge the Ministers' and Prime Ministers' thresholds and beg for transfers or for gifts that the Government will redistribute.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65575	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65576	I don't agree with the spirit of exposure of my colleague Mršić. And I have to say, it's not true that there's no announcement. It seems to me that he was going to say that these announcements that exist are not honest. In the light of the proposal of the Law on Local Self-Government which was adopted, it did not de facto come into force because the remaining 30 laws that would enable it to function reads: "The foundation of the stated conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has launched concrete activities and taken a number of measures aimed at further decentralisation and the development of local democracy as a key basis in the context of approaching European standards." So, it's a very clear announcement from the government that she, in fact, wants decentralisation. But I agree with this taste, the content of Mršić's speech, that this announcement, which was made here, and all these projections he mentioned, is actually saying that there is no genuine desire to strengthen local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65577	Honorable representative Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65578	Dear Mr. President, distinguished government gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. The direct election of municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors is the most just way of respecting the voter's will, their vote and political choice. And these are the preconditions for restoring citizens' trust and the possibility of affecting political and economic developments. One of the more significant and certain consequences of the direct election is the greater turnout of the voters, which you will agree with me for sure that in the previous elections this response was disastrously bad. So voter response to local elections, but also participation in public life at all, and the consequences, especially at local level, which we in the Istrian Democratic Assembly have advocated from the very beginning. The draft electoral law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in the parliamentary procedure as a final proposal, creates only a basic legal framework for the implementation of the direct election of mayors. What about the representative body, gentlemen? The draft election law also, I must say, provides a wide range of rights to observers, which is a very positive feature. However, the new text in the final draft of the law introduces uncertainty regarding respect for the voter's will, since the provisions on the termination of the mayor's term of office are unclear and undefined. As a result, it is not possible to say with certainty that the electoral system established by this proposal is indeed good and that it will respect the rights and will of voters. And I personally think, and it is especially necessary to settle the following issues. Members who speak of the end of the term of office and the resolution of the mayor should be arranged to make sure that a truly real electoral system is established, not just an illusion of increased democracy. The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government needs to be amended to allow the implementation of the final proposal for this law. Provisions governing the issues of the electoral process should be regulated, for example verification of the authenticity of the signature of the support for the candidacy, financing of the election campaign, voting and counting of the ballots, etc., etc. I hope fellow MPs that these remarks will be discussed and finally adopted in order to remove all dilemmas about the direct election of the mayor. It is also very important how citizens will be elected by the representative body, so city, city and municipal councils and the County Assembly. And I would also like to point out in particular that the election law with the mixed system is for the '97 elections. the year was a good example of selecting a representative body. Citizens were able to directly elect their representatives to the representative body. That's what we want to talk about and what we're discussing in these, the second day, to get the centralized stuff down to as low a level as possible. But in the future, and it's important that no experiments happen, as someone called them, as in the previous elections one of the experiments was the City of Labin. Namely, the City Council of Labin has 15 councilmen. Out of that, 7 seats were given to the Istrian Democratic Assembly or 45% of voters' votes. A little less than 19% got SDP, 3 mandates, about 18% HSU, 3 mandates. One LS councilman and one HDZ councilman. After the elections, a sub-election agreement was signed between the charred coalition, SDP, HSU, LS, HDZ, to ensure that after it was visible that people from the SDP and HDZ parties would not allow such a post-election agreement, HDZ broke an agreement with this colorful coalition, but their councilman still supports the mayor, who, as picturesquely Mr Jurjevic, said that 82% of voters in the city of Split voted against the mayor. I'm going to be a little more gentle, so I'm going to say that it's in the city of Labin, that for the mayor who's in the city of Labin today, 82% of the voters didn't vote for him. So HDZ supports minority headship. It is very interesting that of the seven members of the headship one member has not been elected today. So what's going on? There is a growing dissent among citizens, people feel deceived, and the charred coalition of gentlemen deals mostly with itself. So the direct election of municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors, but also the mixed system we had in 97 is one example of how certain things can be solved without people becoming and not feeling deceived. So the most direct is the way to respect the voter's will and their vote and political choice, and these are the gentlemen's prerequisites for restoring citizens' trust in the ability to influence political and undermining economic developments. I personally believe and will bow to all those who have proposed this bill to go into third reading in order to remove any dilemmas about the direct election of the mayor, as well as the representative body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65579	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Palaric. Well, here I am on Thursday, and on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I have made a series of remarks on this Final Proposal of the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb, but now allow me to use these 10 minutes and say several sentences and on the basis of, of course, a very rich experience as mayor, as well as a councilman in the county assembly, but also a representative in this House. First of all, it's not very clear to me to be honest, why are we in such a hurry with this final proposal, because the public and political parties, including... cities and municipalities, and we can say that, more or less, we all support this system of direct selection of local leaders together, and I think we should have waited until the total package of laws in which the vast majority of the debaters here have declared themselves, and on the other hand, three years until the election, we have plenty of time to sort out the total package. That is why, as a club of HSS, we will give one conclusion on the basis of which we will also seek the support of all other political parties to postpone the vote on this final proposal until we get to our benches all other laws that regulate electoral legislation for local and regional self-government, and only then could we be able to declare why and in what way to support this law. It was certainly necessary first to discuss the roof law, that is, the Law on local and regional, in fact, regional self-government, and only then could we get a full picture. But to be honest, why didn't we have enough courage and strength and maybe put it all into one law, the Law of Elections, which we would have all these misunderstandings from now on solve and clear so that there wouldn't be any questions relating to the package of all these laws. But now let me say something about the law itself. The fact is that the essence of this law is reduced to 12 points, in fact 11 if this Article 12 of the law that the Government has also proposed to delete is excluded, it says that it can indeed be discussed in metric terms only those 11 articles which determine the way of the election, the direct choice of local leaders. I'd say there's a few articles that seem a little controversial to me, so I'll look back at them. For example, Article 7 mentioning the mandate of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb and the termination of their mandate in accordance with the provisions of the law governing local and regional self-government. So right now we're talking about exactly what I was talking about earlier, that it's going to be settled by law, and we don't know how. That's not a good approach. So on the one hand, it's not clear to me whether the existing provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government will apply or whether something is going to change and we don't know what and in what way. What seems equally important to me at this point is Article 9 where it speaks about the incompatibility of duties or functions, and here in paragraph 2, this incompatibility from the President of the Republic of Croatia to the director and staff of institutions which units of local, or regional self-government founder. There's no agent duty here. I said that we, as the HSS, are looking for and we will give the amendment in the form of a new sentence, that the mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb and their deputy during the conduct of their duties cannot be a representative in Croatia now. That will be, we still allowed the chief to be able, since he's small, but I also said on behalf of the HSS Club if most agree to be chief, we won't object to that, but in any case there's less of a mayor than a mayor here. I would not particularly explain our position because we believe that both the duties and responsibilities of the mayor are far more significant and larger and we think that the mayors, not to say the mayors, would not, because under this law the mayor may be a representative, and so far it has been decided by law that the mayor cannot be a representative. And you're not going to tell me that the mayor could sit here with these duties and jobs he's got. I've been in two mayoral terms, and I know very well what the mayor's obligations are. Not minor but enormously large, and if this compares with the great obligations of the representatives, it is almost unsustainable and we will absolutely be against such a provision because we also believe that the mayor of both the City of Zagreb and the Mayor and the Mayor cannot be a representative at the same time, but we will propose, in article 10, supplementing paragraph 1, that, of course, as under the current Law, this mandate can be put into rest. So, the term of office. I expect other clubs to think about it and support this proposal. I've heard from some of the other colleagues who spoke on behalf of the clubs that will also go with a similar idea. And I absolutely support such efforts. What I find very interesting, further, is the article 12 that the government pulled, but let me say 2, 3 sentences about it anyway. Because when I read that final bill that was before us, I stopped, to be honest, and I wondered if it was really possible. In fact, decentralisation should also mean decentralisation of political power, and such a proposal that came to the benches before us, so the original proposal is not about decentralisation but rather about the opposite. About centralization in surveillance. If you were to remain such a provision, it would mean that the government would take on powers that you're not now. But what is there is, the government has submitted its amendment. This article 12 is deleted, but in the explanation we have an even more original solution that I have already talked about, that this will be resolved by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. If it wasn't sad, it would be funny, I have to say here and find out that it doesn't satisfy me. This must be resolved by this law, and I call upon the Prime Minister, so that you, too, Mr Palaric, may submit an amendment until the final vote. It must be settled by this law, so let's not delay everything for the Law of Local Self-Government. Who knows what's going to happen and when it's going to be solved in a way. And finally, as I was saying in the name of the club, we have a problem of course in running, but also, first of all, with the election because the running process has been resolved, proposed so that both the mayor and the deputy are elected together. Together, at the same time on the ballot, and that's fine if we set ourselves up for such a system. However, somehow I find this solution unacceptable in this Law because first, we have no solution in which way to choose a deputy, head of local self-government if the deputy submits, for example, resignation. It's not settled by this law. Does that mean the mayor or the mayor or the mayor will do the jobs and his deputy? I've been thinking about how to handle it in the first place. We can't mix two systems now. We can't interfere that the deputy might be elected by the council or the assembly. That's not a good solution. So, simply this kind of recall resolution system or I don't know how to end the term of office to the deputy head of local self-government, we're just going to get into a stalemate position. There is still time before the vote, and I call on the government to solve the problem. And of course, in the end, all these remarks that I've said stand, and we're going along with our amendments, and the conclusion that I've said, we're really going to appeal to all the other clubs to postpone even the third reading. And that's not a bad solution, let's go to the third reading, but before that, come with the other laws and then let's discuss it in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65581	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65582	Well, here comes the day several times, the dilemma of who will be in favor, and who will be against whether the mayors can be one and the other. First, I'd turn the thesis. Let's talk about what Parliamentarians can be. Let's let the local government decide what their mayors will do and be. If that's the case, then let's say that a parliamentary representative can only be a parliamentary representative and nothing else. Because I don't see why, for example, the mayor couldn't be the parliamentary representative and mayor of a small town, and at the same time, the parliamentary representative could be the president of the county's largest county assembly in this country. Well, you'll forgive me, I guess the county assembly is a lot stronger and the president of that county assembly than the mayor of a small town's ficus in 2009, you know? And we're talking about this now in the morning who's gonna be for it, and who's against what the mayors of June 2009 will be able to be and won't be. Instead of discussing what they're going to do, my people. Not in 2009, tomorrow. Tomorrow. Because tomorrow we have to solve the problems of this, and the mayors are in Parliament today. You know why? Because 93% of tax revenues go to Dr. Sanader's office. And in order to get a crumb for your city you have to... Minister's thresholds, especially if you're from the opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's why it is, so it won't come to the mayor's mind when he has 30% of the tax revenues in the Republic of Croatia to sit here in the Parliament, but then the minister will break the mayor's thresholds. So let's turn the system around and then it'll be a lot clearer. But I'd love to, let's turn the story around and say that Parliamentarians can't be but nothing but parliamentary deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65583	Good, better to pick the thresholds than the cash register. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65584	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Mršić and I understand each other very well. And he, as mayor in the second term, knows very well what his obligations are, very responsible and very large as the mayor of the town of Koprivnica. I know, I already said, as mayor, and I agree, let's open a debate. But we can't talk about who's who's not. We discussed this possibility at the HSS Club and I, of course, as a representative of the Croatian Peasant Party at the moment expressed the position of the HSS Club. But if we're going to pass other laws before the 3rd reading, then we can discuss it and then I'm willing to support some of your ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65585	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65586	... on the same thesis or request by fellow Sabati in the obligatory not to combine the functions of the representatives with the mayor, the Commissioner allowed. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Why? Well, not entirely for these reasons that Mršić spoke of. On the contrary, it seems to me that it might even be an argument contrary to that because by breaking the thresholds, if it is in the Parliament, it could be found in a situation that puts it in a different position than one of the mayors who is not in the Parliament. So, I wouldn't use it as an argument, but what do we have to do here, we have to deal with it? We have to solve what this incompatibility is really about. This is where pragmatic reasons appear, so it's said because this one can't collect the quorum from most of them in the Parliament, so he needs the mayor here for 24 hours. That can't be an argument. Is the weight and severity and responsibility of the job? So we have, we can these Nordic parliaments are full, all ministers are members of parliament. They are not arguments or this one why the president of the Zagreb Assembly could not, for example, be the mayor. That's no argument either. The conflict of interest is not an argument. So I advocate that this attitude that we now have in the proposal, so that nothing is prescribed in that sense to stay until we resolve, we have another 3 years of story of the whole package then it will have, then it will be able to be decided in that sense to decide. I wouldn't be for this shape right now... Incompatibility of the functions of representatives and mayors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65587	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65588	Obviously, the topic is interesting because the present and former mayor appear and so on. I agree. We can discuss the reasons why to or not put it on and it is true that you realized that there should be no reason whether or not someone is mayor and is now or not a representative. That's right. The one who is not and then has fewer opportunities to reach the minister and that certainly is not a good solution, but I am afraid that there is no urgency to let it go to the political parties. I don't think that's a good solution in general and that's why it's my proposal, and it's going to be the HSS to put it into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65589	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65590	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So in the time of the frequent extraordinary elections for the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government here we are discussing a bill that should restore citizens' confidence in the possibility of affecting political and economic developments, above all at local level. It is an obligation for the state to find and provide instruments and mechanisms to ensure the performance of the citizens' will expressed in the elections. In the local elections in May 2005, this failed, and too many indications suggest that the government itself encouraged the formation of an executive authority such as the citizens did not want. With his opinions and interpretations, the most significant role in disrespecting the will of citizens was played by the Central Office, the State Office for State Administration. So it's the opposite of that primary assignment of yours. What characterizes the last local elections is the frequent change in the political uniforms of elected councillors. As a reason, these frequent fluctuations are cited blackmails, threats, tempting offers from job solving to money offerings. In this House, I was already talking about the case of the Municipality of Podgorica where a councilwoman changes her political uniform for the seat of the council president to receive a monthly fee of 2 and a half thousand kuna. Before her Camelot coup, the president of the council had a compensation of 800 kuna a month. So, its betrayal over 4 years will be paid by the citizens of Podgorica, and it will put 81,000 kuna more in its pocket than its predecessor over 4 years. The second councilman turns the losing option into a winning option only when the branch of sewers changes direction and instead goes into an industrial zone into a street where the house of that councilman is. This isn't a lonely example. Let us remember Slavonski Brod, let us remember Karlovec, and in their shadow were the events of Gornji Bogicevci,... And countless, countless other municipalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In these cases, with the issuing of voters, power has been formed at the will of the state government, and the Central Office of State Administration says everything is legal and everything is in accordance with the law and it is true. It's in accordance with the law, but it's not in accordance with the will of the citizens. Councilors have been selected on party lists. In their election promotion, they presented to the citizens the political options they would represent if elected. Voters were promised, citizens supported by their votes by the candidate, but also by the political option he presented. After the election, the elected councilman now violates the promise, abandons the declared political stances and becomes his own representative in the council instead of the representatives of the citizens, but provides power to a political option that citizens in the elections have clearly said no. It is absolutely certain that in the next elections, citizens will sanction treason, but they will also sanction a party on whose list the traitor was on. However, what we should be concerned about is the loss of citizens' trust in the possibility of affecting political and economic developments. So far, discussions on this topic in the Assembly have given rise to the impression that there is a consensus of all political parliamentary parties, that the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors will guarantee to citizens that they will have the executive authority of exactly who they wanted. It seems unequivocal that the election will respect the citizens' expressed will. This law regulates it and that's good, but the law is not complete. The relationship between the executive and the representative body has not been developed. Who and how will control and, if necessary, sanction the unsatisfactory work of the executive? Who's going to be his correction? We don't know that, and the proposer says it will be regulated by another law. If this is so loyal, there is no point in discussing and voting on this proposal until we have a complete legislative framework for the new system of election of mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. So how are we going to vote for this proposal, and we don't know if it will install untouchables whose self-will and untouchability will be exposed to units of local and regional self-government? It is unacceptable to consider giving the Government of the Republic of Croatia authority to resolve the elected. Only citizens who voted for them and no one else can decide that. It is a shame that no proposal on a simultaneous debate on a complete package of laws has been adopted so that we can assess and assess how the provisions in practice will work. This way, we do not have a complete picture and this law itself will be inapplicable and it is therefore unrealistic to expect from it the strengthening of the trust of citizens who do not know the authority of elected leaders, do not know the relationship between the executive authority and the representative body, the way decisions are taken and the procedure of impeaching the mayor, mayor and mayor. Furthermore, this law should regulate more detailed and detailed financing of pre-election promotion. It's really unclear why you missed it. Citizens are very interested and have the right to know who financed which candidate, or who, and how much funding the political option. Why is that so important? So simply because a citizen has the right to know how independent he is, how free he is from the influence of the greatest force, and that's the power of money. Money comes with interests. The citizen votes for one of the candidates because he expects authorities to act responsibly towards their voters, to represent the interests that a citizen accepts as his own. However, these interests may be in conflict with the interests of the financier not only of pre-election promotions of candidates but also of the political party to which the candidate belongs. What interests will the elected mayor, mayor or mayor represent then? Well, of course, the interests of whoever financed it. For this reason, a citizen must know the financier so that before voting, he can determine whether there will be a conflict of interest and behaviour or a commitment chosen in the event of such a conflict. I believe that both parties and candidates must be free and, therefore, it is necessary to lay down by law the amount to which a natural or legal person may donate one political party or candidate. This way, the public will still not know who the donors of individual candidates are or who the donations are. Without regulating campaign financing, the elections will continue to be non-transparent and space for speculation, suspicion and mistrust in the work of elected leaders will be left to the public and the media. In this way, citizens' trust will not be restored. They will continue to speculate on whose service the elected leader is in. The citizen feels powerless and helpless and as a solution is found in... And instead of going to the polling station, he'd rather stay home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if our goal is to restore trust, then let's do everything we need to do for that return instead of actually throwing this law to the citizens only dust in the eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65591	Thank you. Three replicas. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65592	Thank you, Mr. President. The first time a colleague of Ljubica didn't know about Podgorica a few months ago, I didn't get a chance to answer, so now I'd like to answer the Podgorac case. The Podgorek case doesn't actually exist. I was present when she made a deal with a lady who moved from one option to another no one offered her any money or any money. She was dissatisfied with the work of the former government in which she and the way the agricultural land was distributed, by setting up various actions around the land. And as for any money there was talked about half a million kunas, there was talk about everything. The only thing that mattered was whether this furniture was going to have 4 million budgets or the other one. She chose this set. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65593	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65594	My colleague, your explanation may be this superficially looking at perhaps a bit convincing, but let's look at all this together from the aspect of an ordinary citizen, even if it is a citizen of the municipality of Podgorica. I'm sorry we're talking about our community, the municipality of the region from which we both come. However, it is very indicative that what leaves space to speculate on citizens and creates mistrust, and that is that this councilwoman has been appointed or elected as council president by changing political uniforms. It is determined by a fee of 2.5 thousand kuna and its predecessor had a compensation of 800 kuna. It's enough space to create a belief that it's actually the way to buy places and provide power to someone. And that's what we need, that's the kind of opportunity we need to remove. And that's why I've suggested that in some amendments to the law, I don't know anymore, I think about local self-government that in such cases when the government is allowed to move from one political bloc to another political bloc to discuss elections in these cases and that the people value whether they accept such... Or he doesn't accept it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, we will restore citizens' confidence in politics. As long as we don't clear this up, as long as the citizens are left with some space for their doubts and their ambiguities, we won't restore trust and the citizens are disappointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65595	The second replica, the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65596	Well, look, I get the feeling that there were still a few sentences missing from my colleague Lalic when it comes to the inauguration of cases of immoral crossings, it's clearly about purchases. It seems to me that in cases like this where it is clear that the political option behind it is quite concrete if it has not already been sanctioned by Palarić's office, if it is qualified that the act is done under the law must be intervened by the police, it must intervene USKOK, it must intervene the judiciary because it is obvious to steal as well as any other theft. In the city of Sisak, by changing the uniforms of two councilmen, they gained a very tangible material benefit. One of the councilors who changed his uniform was the demands he had listed that he should meet from receiving a severance payment for him and the wife of every 75 thousand kuna he did not have the right to purchase an apartment of 75 thousand kuna that was 150 thousand kuna. ... That's not true, my colleague. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Until the employment of another child in the Croatian forests etc. Don't make me say it. So it's about concrete material financial interests. That's what needs to be investigated by the police. That's what this is about. And in the case of Sisak, it is evident that Palaric's office, as the Administrative Court later decided, was also confirmed in favour of the ruling party. Look at this mayor, too, so-called. The mayor of Sisak raises his salary by 100% and then cuts 20%. This is how it turned out to be him, and his salary is higher than the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65597	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65598	Although, indeed, my colleague Vidovic, if I had listed all the cases that were happening in Croatia, it would have been a long list. And it's a little strange that we, under the same Law on Elections for Local Self-Government Units, had elections in 2001 and what happened in the elections was not what happened after the 2005 elections. And that... In fact, there is a basis for your claim what you were saying about the central office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I absolutely agree with you. So we had a proposal, a proposal from that same Office for Reliable Interpretation, which, thanks to God, refused this Assembly and the Committee on Law and Constitution, and this credible interpretation had one single goal. To replace legally elected power in Sisak-Moslavina County. And now if we have a state body that supports such abuses, how can we expect the trust of citizens? Well, we can't expect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65599	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Correction, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65600	Well, just funding a pre-election campaign is one of the key issues. And I'm really surprised that the government here isn't what it normally likes to train strictness or define principles took advantage of the opportunity to bring here some principles that would then apply to some other, other choices. I'm surprised, for example, that the government didn't have the courage to take over what Gong suggested and warned in the public debate. I'm the one who made it into the amendments now. For example, candidates are prohibited from receiving donations from anonymous sources. So every donation must have a name, name and amount. And that's possible, isn't it? Or, for example, banning legal entities owned by local self-government units from being donors. It's also those who have business contracts with those units of local self-government because then they wouldn't have a case of Liburnia. You know, Liburni invested in a pre-election campaign of parties she wanted to come to power after that party to return not what it is, which she gave to those parties but fertilized that capital by one 40 or 50 times. Finally, we need to come to pre-election campaigns being transparent, so I suggest that a candidate who does not submit a report on where he cannot get the money to finance the pre-election campaign back from the unit budget, or regional self-government. So it's just gonna be one financial punishment for him. If you deliver a report that's complete and true, then you'll get your funds back, and if you don't deliver that report, then you won't make it happen. Will the government accept and the ruling majority of this amendment will show whether we are going towards public policy transparency, and here in this case local self-government, or do we still want hidden sources of campaign financing and corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65601	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65602	So again, I am really glad that my colleague Mršić and I agree on the transparency of pre-election promotion financing, but I trust my colleague Mršić and the financing of each individual political party's political work. But I'm not as optimistic as you that the government will accept your amendments. Because of the need to finance pre-election promotion and political action we have already discussed in the Croatian Parliament a number of times. And the government is aware that it should. That's the only thing that guarantees transparency. The voter has a right to know if his candidate is independent? His candidate is independent if it's not up to anyone's donations, regardless of whether it was in the payment of the bill, anonymous donations. There must be made full clarity and complete transparency. Well, here's my colleague, Mr. Gristle, and my appeal to the government if you're going to put those amendments in, I'm not going to write them then, accept that. Because you yourself said in this bill of law the aim of this law is to restore citizens' trust. Let's leave the party colors of the motionor and do whatever it takes to restore citizens' trust. A citizen cannot vote for the one he knew that, I don't know, a million, two, five or seventeen million kunas had been given privately to finance pre-election promotion. He's not free. He protects other people's interests, not citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65603	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65604	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected by the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is this bill of law, which is just another one in a series of partial solutions that we are offered both with other legal proposals and with the election legislation. I must certainly say that at the pressure of citizens who have opted for the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, 85% of citizens want a direct choice. We can say that this law was extorted by the government. I think the proposed solutions on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors are expedient since they do not comply with the provisions of the law on local and regional self-government. This law lays down a direct choice model for the mayor, mayor and mayor, without establishing which direct choice model is more appropriate to the Republic of Croatia and our political reality? And so far we have had in some environments a personalized campaign which is also one of the models or perhaps not thought about it as they have in Italy, an Italian model where 30% of the mandates are won immediately and 60% of the mandates and thus avoids this trade that happens in the Republic of Croatia. In this law, too, running solutions mean collecting signatures and running from political parties. So it's not enough to be run by a political party or voters as authorized promoters. For the validity of the candidacy, you need an additional collection of signatures. And I also believe that the number of signatures is not well solved and that a percentage should be determined according to the number of inhabitants, i.e. voters, to be confirmed by the signing of the candidacy. While the candidate who receives more than 50% of the voters' votes included in the list of electoral voters was elected to that official, it is very logical and correct. But the prerequisite for any electoral legislation has been arranged, which is not the case with us, so we can already question the good intentions of this law. Because this open possibility is an open possibility of manipulation, because there are no problems being dealt with systematically, the voter lists are really messy, and nothing has been done to regulate them either through legislation or otherwise. Because if we pass this law instead of building a house from the ground we build it from the roof. How there are still many topics in this proposal that are either not well solved or do not belong in my opinion in this law should consider a third reading. For example, this proposal is not well solved. It seems to me that six months of stay, or residence six months on the territory, is too little. At least a year should be set, and perhaps even an entire term of office. The article on the incompatibility of duty was preceded by the talk here. I believe that Parliamentarians can also not be mayors and mayors like they can't be mayors so far. Perhaps they should consider not being even presidents of city councils and county congregations. In my opinion, Article 31 does not belong to this law, and it is about campaign financing. This should also be regulated through the Law on Political Parties and also by a special law on campaign financing, where the details could indeed be elaborated on how campaigns would be financed. Also, in order for the draft law to be implemented, it is necessary to plan already, i.e. to establish appropriate amendments and additions to the Law on local regional self-government in which the following will be determined in relation to the natural direct elections. The position of the directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor and their authority. The relationship between the executive body and the representative body of the units of local self-government and the division of powers of former chieftains to the representative body or directly elected officials. The same question is raised in a way that prevents manipulations in the second round, as, of course, two candidates who have the most votes enter the second round and in a way that prevent the one who has fewer votes from getting the support of all those others. It means everyone's conspiring against one candidate again. And finally, it would be better if we were before this electoral legislation which seems to me in some way only clouding and courting our citizens and deviating them from real problems, and they are regionalisation and decentralisation and powers and money. Perhaps it would be better if we had discussed the introduction of home regions, not if we had the recentralisation we see from last session of the government, where the government took it as a right to even determine the working time of catering facilities in the areas of local self-government units because surely cities and municipalities know less than the central authorities how they should operate catering facilities in their area. We are really experts in creating illogical and partial solutions, and therefore I suggest that, indeed, this law goes into third reading and that these many illogicalities are resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65605	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65606	Mr. President, here's a colleague who says that this law is an advocacy to citizens which is certainly not true and that that would also be the way to court all parties, parliamentary parties, all MPs, civil society, civil society, the public. So, then it would really be courting I think to the entire population of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65607	Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65608	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Pesic Bukovac correctly said that all polls showed that over 85% of voters, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are for direct elections. However, then this election law must be so in order to remove all the dilemmas about the direct election, and it is true that it says here in this proposal that the aim of this law is to restore citizens' trust, and we have the possibility that as parliamentarians, we will pass such a law that will ultimately contribute to that and that citizens' confidence in Croatian institutions, in this House will become... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65609	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65610	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, it seems to me that colleague Bukovac Pesic read well why the bill came to the Croatian Parliament on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. And that's a valid reason. That's a good reason, only that reason won't satisfy this bill. So, there's a huge gap, a discrepancy between citizens' expectations, so 85% who want a direct choice of executive authority in local self-government and solutions and messages sent by the government with such a bill. It's discrimination in essence, a divide in essence. First of all, it should be said, and so do the theorists and practitioners of democracy that no democratic electoral law solves the issue of democracy in itself. All democratic systems are valid and valuable. The issue of its implementation is what bothers us. If, and I will quote this again, some democratic theorists, if under the democratic system we mean primarily respecting the set of procedural rules and regulations in making collective decisions that allow for the widest possible participation of interested citizens, this law does not allow it. The final bill of law as we received it today on benches, so in the second reading and which should be voted on, has no serious intention of being applied in practice. Here's why. First, the legislator himself says he will enter, be published and enter into force within 8 days of publication, and will apply in 2009. And it's a legal nonsension that we will have in practice in the legal force two laws that regulate the same matter, the same matter. And if the lawyers would interpret it, this last law, fresher and younger, derogates the previous law. So there's legal practice and legal theory clearly. But what does this law not solve to be good for democratic resolution and decision-making in local self-government? It solves in part only the choice of executive authority, and in part. And what doesn't solve? It does not address the issue of responsibility of directly elected representatives, i.e. executive authorities, mayors, mayors and mayors, or according to representative authorities, so to congregations, municipalities and counties and cities, or citizens, because it has a double role. That doesn't solve this law. When we add that this law does not address at all the issue of the choice of a representative body in local self-government, nor do we know what it will look like, then what we are saying is that it is an improvement for democratic relations and the credibility of politics in local self-government. On what basis can we conclude that when we haven't even regulated how will citizens choose representative authority in local self-government? We don't know that. We can talk about trusting the government, but after morning it's known, it's morning it's known. Such a solution does not deserve to be voted in the Croatian Parliament. A fundamental democratic institute, the control of the executive authority and the exchange of power during the term of office, is the fundamental principle of democracy, this law has not even tried to resolve. In fact, he tried, and the government realized that it had crashed, and the provisions of Article 12 were eliminated by its amendment. And left it empty. So, the fundamental principle of democratically formed authorities, democratic control of the executive government says we will deal with it later. Can we give Bianca a pass to the government? We can't, we can't. In fact, the Parliament's responsibility is to precisely regulate relations and determine the responsibility, mutual responsibility of the representative body and the executive authority. Because it is the task of the representative body, so it cannot be eliminated to control and oversee the work of the executive authority. From government to local self-government. I have already said something about the entry into force, but here the debate often mentioned the incompatibility of certain duties, executive authorities with representative authorities. In Croatia it is a fundamentally incompatible duty, only a question at which level. In fact, none of us suggest that the minister in Croatia be a member of Parliament. Because they're separate authorities. And the argument that has been withdrawn here, that in certain countries of the European Union and European democratic countries there are different solutions. But, of course, there are different solutions not only to this interconnectivity function, but in general systems are different. I must say that the argument that the mayor, mayor or municipal chief who would at the same time be and the representative can use his representative's duty to secure his executive office in the municipality and the city's better position is an automatic abuse of representation duties. Because the parliamentary duty is intended to safeguard the general and common interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's a conflict of interest if it's interpreted like that. But I can't offer a solution, because practice is really different. But that argument doesn't stand, that's all I'm saying. For this law, I must say, I once whispered that to the President of the Croatian Parliament in my ear when he interpreted the Rules of Procedure, so now I must say that sentence about the proposal of this law that Pascal said. So, democracy without power is powerless, but power without democracy is tyranny. And all those who advocate give us power, give us rights, give us rights, and we will answer to the citizens, and we will answer to the citizens is not good legitimacy, democratic legitimacy. Give me both the rights and the responsibility to know who I'll answer to. This law really does not solve it in principle or in principle. Such a law cannot truly deserve to pass in the Croatian Parliament. And one or two sentences about funding and decentralisation. Of course decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia does not mean the choice of government in local self-government. It's not a decision on interests. It is already established interests or rights of local self-government as one will enforce. And decentralisation implies extending the authority of local self-government to the burden of decision-making in the central state government. There's really no talking about decentralisation here in this law. And that's what I think is a really important topic, but it would be a big step if decentralisation started to come up with before we came to the European Union, even if all the rules regarding local self-government were established. And finally, the issue of funding such a proposed election in local self-government units. Well, I think that both corruption and conflict of interest begin from unreal promises to the citizens. And what would be the reason why an election process like this would not be unrealistic promises. There's no reason why there's no control. It's not intended for control. As for donations, I advocate always being public, and in other words all political parties' revenues must be recorded in a public account so that they can be controlled by either Parliament, whether the State Audit. And one more thing, it seems to me that the trends in democracy are that politics is financed by public money, so we must consider that when it comes to local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65611	Thank you. Five replicas. The Honorable First Representative, Pesic Dorotea Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65612	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is why it was in my opinion that this law was extorted. Because the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware that 85% of citizens want a direct choice, and that next year they are parliamentary elections, so here we will give the citizens what they are looking for, and let's not forget that local elections are only in 2009 or in three years. And that's why this law is now on the agenda. Because this government, under quotes, is fulfilling all promises and will be able to boast here are the citizens you wanted so you got a direct selection of mayors and mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65613	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65614	Thank you very much. I agree, of course, that the law is a political necessity for the government, because 85% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have declared themselves. But I believe that fulfilling the wishes of the citizens is not in the making of a law that will not meet their expectations. I think it's a scam, not a promise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65615	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65616	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the esteemed representative, Leco, said that the selection of a representative body in this Union proposal is precisely defined. Dear Mr. Leko, I ask you, do you think a mixed system for selecting a representative body would contribute to the return of citizens' trust and greater voter turnout in view of this proposal that has been made today?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65617	Asking for opinions in the replica. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65618	Dear colleague, my position here was in the introduction precisely. No democratic system in itself solves the issue of democracy. Therefore, both this and the other democratic system is good if it is respected in practice. The problem with us is that we are not even in practice, so there is a purchase of mandates, blackmail, corruption, a change in the political will of citizens, which is not foreseen by the law. So let's face it, let's not solve the problem with normative optimism, by offering new laws, by implementing existing laws, that was my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65619	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65620	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his debate, he asked or worried about how to elect a representative body in the regular local elections. Justified concern and I share it, but right now, I'm not even sure if the presidential body will be after this kind of election model. Perhaps the government will propose that representative bodies be abolished because all authorities will be in executive power, and perhaps no authority will be in the representative body and all will have leaders, because we do not know because the government has not given up the law package and you have said that it is good that the government has given up its intention to replace directly elected leaders. I'm not sure they gave up on it, they just gave up writing it in this law, and maybe it'll write in that law on amendments to the law on local self-government. So it still hasn't removed that fear that exists, because so long as we don't get that other law, it's hard to give judgments on this law. Why is this law now being forced? Well, you heard your colleagues from the HDZ Club who said it was their pre-election promise and they're doing it. In the meantime, four times they refused to vote by a direct election model that was offered in the package, it doesn't matter now. And in the end, you have warned of a double system of electoral regulations, and imagine only when they come with the law on additions to the Law on Local Self-Government where we have a double system of representative bodies, a double system of resolution, a double system of powers and jurisdiction. I think we will be the only European state to have four local self-government governance models at the same time because of the inability of the proposing to resolve in transitional and final provisions when the law enters into force and when it applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65621	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65622	Dear fellow Lesar, of course it is convenient to lead the matter to absurdity, it is acceptable for the citizens and they understand it best, and you and I also know that it is not possible to eliminate representative hair because the Constitution provides. It is foreseen that the representative authority controls and oversees the work of the executive authority. Therefore, it is not possible to violate the Constitution, we trust ourselves, and even citizens would severely punish it. Do I trust the government to give up what's changed? Well, I believe in the government's good intentions still. Well, some people tell me it's not exactly like that, but I still believe in the government's good intentions because it's an interest she declared. And in the end, I don't think this law really needs to be defended or attacked, but realistically assessing its range, and its range is back, not forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65623	Replica, a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65624	Dear counterpart Leko, therefore, I see nothing controversial if a mayor uses different roads and channels and in order to achieve the right that citizens have under the Constitution, which is the right to achieve local self-government and to solve problems, including possibly sometimes a channel of parliamentary MPs. So I do not see that this is a problem in conflict of interest because it provides neither political power nor property benefit but solves citizens' problems. I, on the other hand, see a major problem in the abuse of ministers and government in providing someone with power or some benefit. Because we had, for example, the situation now in the pre-election campaign in Gorica, that the entire government had come to the opening of the Zagreb-Sisak highway without having any construction permits or any other items, and at that national opening of the highway, the party flags waved. Secondly, I see a problem in Požega County where, before the elections in the City of Požega, the government met, made certain promises. When citizens chose another power, none of those promises. In Požega County, the government promised before these extraordinary elections a 250 million kuna project, today none of it. That matches the debt that was created in that Požega County. I see a problem in government meetings that as a ringishpill and go around the Republic of Croatia where land in state-owned property, where we have a land available plan as exclusively agricultural purposes, the government leaves its decisions to local self-government units and thus violates the law, for the purpose of entrepreneurship zones. So the government doesn't have to respect the Agricultural Land Act, the Spatial Planning Act, and local self-government units need it. I see here a conflict of interest in what is happening today in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65625	Replica. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65626	Dear Mršić, Croatian experiences in 15 years are very rich when it comes to violations of labour laws and principles and the meaning of the law. So you said you were allowed to use various channels to achieve the mayoral interest in the Croatian Parliament. And the Constitution says he's a representative, that's what you said, read yourself, use various channels to achieve the interests of the mayor's office. Therefore, the interests of the narrow part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the Constitution says that the representative does not have a binding mandate, even if it is the mayor's mandate when it comes to the MP. It's about the MP, not the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65627	And respected representative Davorko Vidovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65628	I would say, even though my colleague, Leko, in response to one of the replicas, did not hesitate or doubt the government's good intentions, I really wanted to, I really wanted to warn you. That we simply, and we wouldn't actually be able to talk from a formal point of view about the motives of a particular law and project. This does not fall within the area of correct political and moral political business. So, I honestly believe that the government has a good intention, the intensities are good. But what is undeniable is what has been repeatedly and in the debate and so far has already been pointed out that this is quite insufficient and therefore inadequate if it has not been followed by a change in a whole series of other regulations, laws and solutions. If we don't know what's going to happen to the Law on Local Administration and Self-Government, if we don't know what's going on with decentralisation, especially fiscal decentralisation, if we don't know what's going on with the selection of representative bodies if it's not settled, if we don't know what's the relationship between representative bodies and executive authority, then this is actually a matter of direct or indirect choice of mayors and mayors and their powers, in fact, extremely confusing and extremely cloudy. I bow therefore, if I understand correctly, you do not question your colleague Leko, or you do not challenge this Law, but you are proposing his postponement, the adoption of this Law, or the third reading, and I am adhering to that solution. We have time, we need to agree on a whole package and then the story will have a completely different meaning because it will then be able to contextually observe the solutions that are given in the proposal of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65629	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65630	Dear fellow Vidovic, of course I advocate the increased and asymmetric responsibility of officials in the exercise of power. And that means that I really advocate knowing who's responsible for what, which means that responsibility when it comes to individual, direct choices would be precisely determined and that citizens know who's responsible and who's guilty. But if that's not regulated well, then we're really going to get something that won't allow citizens to know who's responsible or who's responsible. But worst of all, we won't know who controls the executive power. That was the point of my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65631	Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65632	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Office. Here is today the second day we are discussing in the second reading of the proposal for a law on the direct selection of the head of the executive unit of local and regional self-government, so direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors. I say, we are discussing today in the second reading, probably with the will of the majority, the Law will be passed, and we have not solved the essential shortcomings, unknowns and nebuloses that are highlighted in the debate in the first reading of this bill. It is clear to me that today, if you want to go to Europe, the general trend of moving to the direct selection of the executive head is, I would say, but in these and such electoral systems of direct choice, all doubt must be resolved before the election itself. There must be a clear definition of the relationship between the representative and the executive, and is that the case with this Law? Obviously not. At the very least, it was necessary to refer, in parallel with this Law, to the procedure and amendments to the Law on Regional and Regional Self-Government, that I do not particularly speak of more than 30 laws that need to be changed, which regulate local and regional self-government. And is that done? It's not. Are we sure that the elected mayor who will be elected under this law will not be just a ficus that the government will be able to replace? I don't think so. The government says, believe us, we'll be in the process one day just don't know when, the draft law amending the Law on Local Self-Government which will be defined that the Government can't really replace the directly elected leader. But how do you believe it? It could, therefore, have been parallel to the procedure to refer at least to that Law, not to those 30 that I specifically mentioned, but the government didn't. The government won't do it now, it'll be a nice day, we'll see when it'll be. It is clear to me that in the Croatian political public that one thing was created among citizens, I would say, the atmosphere of the need to move directly to the selection of local and regional executive heads. It was promised by most political parties, including the SDP, and there is no clear return. The less I think about it, the less important it is right now. I would vote in favour of this law with one whole law of direct choice, but I cannot vote for this law. In view of the fact that this Law is not complete, it seems to me that repairing the current Law, which says that list holders, as a rule, should be defined by the candidate for the head of the executive authority, that the holders of the list are not in general but as a mandatory candidate for mayor, and that the Law would be good when this one is not yet complete, and that is why I find this change completely unnecessary. It was certainly worth avoiding the possibility that on the list the holder of the list may be a person who, surely, in the event of winning his list, would not be the deputy mayor, mayor or mayor. It was worth avoiding, for example. that in the municipality... In which I live, I'll be the bearer of the SDP list, which is fine, but also the holder of the HDZ list is Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tudjman, let me beat Dr. Tudjman, but the truth is we've both been defeated by a third candidate, but if I had won, I would have been the head of the municipality, and I'm sure dr. Tudjman would not be and therefore should have made changes to the law that the personalised campaign would only be confirmed in a way that the holder of the list was necessarily a candidate for the mayor, mayor and mayor and then the law would be good or this Law, but not as complete as it came into the procedure. Or let us take an example of the election for the City Council of Nova Gorica. The HDZ list's holder was Minister Schuker, and it was known in advance that he had publicly said that even in the event of victory, fortunately until that victory for HDZ there was no, Minister Schuker would not be mayor. These situations should be avoided and then the existing Law would be good for me. But specifically about this bill. I must say, in this law, the most important thing is what is really not in the law, and there is nothing we have warned about but in the first reading and clearly formulated legal provisions governing the relationship between the executive and representative authorities. It is a key issue to establish a balanced relationship between the directly elected mayor and the representative body in order to establish mutual control and to know the rights and obligations, and unfortunately, there is no such relationship in this Act and it is pointless for me to adopt it. In addition, this proposal for a law without the Law on Regional and Local Self-Government leaves great powers to the Government who, in the extreme line, does not have to respect the electoral will. The government's announcement of amendments to which this will be resolved should then be made immediately. Article 7 together with Article 12 are completely inaccessible and unacceptable, they need to be amended immediately now and here, rather than waiting for future amendments to the law. In these articles in this Law that is under discussion today, it is necessary to install instruments that will respect the will of citizens, not the will of the Government. It cannot be defined in Article 12 that, I quote, "the government will resolve the commissioner." etc., not to read the entire text but to indicate that they have simply obtained the prescribed conditions for resolution if one of these prescribed conditions is met. In Article 9, the list of incompatible responsibilities should, in my opinion, include parliamentary representatives and heads of state-owned enterprises. In Article 16, the word "party" should be deleted in my view because it is not right for political parties as carriers of a political multiparty civil society to collect signatures of support. Article 17 should be amended accordingly to verify the authenticity of the signature of the support because otherwise, it is necessary and unnecessary. In Article 19, the obligation to verify the appearance of party candidates in a public notary should be deleted, parties shall have their own leadership, their authorised representatives and their seal, let us give a little more confidence to the parties, avoid unnecessary assurances in the notaries unless we aimly want the cost of the election to be as high as possible and someone's profits also greater. There is still a lot of illogicality, and the biggest thing is that parallel to the procedure is not the Law on Local Self-Government, so the concerns of the team are greater with the large part of the MPs resulting from this debate. For this reason, I believe that this debate, which was held in the House, is welcome for the amendment of the Law and its reference to the third reading, provided that, in parallel with the third reading of this Law, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is discussed, or that the provisions of this Law are thus defined not to leave any doubt present in this Proposal. Because of this, the best thing we can do with this bill is not to adopt it and for the reasons that I have put forward in my debate, and also the remarks of a number of clubs and representatives in this assembly, I cannot vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65633	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65634	Dear colleague, here I must say that your debate and the debate of your party colleagues show that you have actually supported the adoption, not the adoption of a law on direct choice under the pressure of the obvious public, or because now that you realize what is actually going to happen I see that there is almost a panic between you. Namely, it is known that SDP is going to the election bar with four, five parties, a common list and so on. Here your candidate will have to go alone with four competitors from earlier coalitions. So, your chances of selecting the mayor, the mayor will really fall to a minimum and I'm glad you're aware of what you're actually seeing from your discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65635	Answer, Mr. Peru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65636	Thank you very much. ... Because there's a lot you should say in this short time, but I won't. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] I'll just say that you're completely, that you didn't really understand the core of our remarks. The SDP is not against the direct election of mayors, however it is against the adoption of such a law which is not complete and which leaves numerous dilemmas and numerous hidden pranks. As for our concern that our candidates won't make it through the direct elections, if you want me to come from one environment where I can safely say that they won't pass, they haven't been in 15 years, they won't be in the next 15 years, but that's less important. I was part of my personal thinking that the existing law could be corrected in a way to say that the holder of the list was the future mayor, a candidate for mayor, and that it would be more quality than this unarranged bill we referred to in the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65637	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65638	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! So immediately on the trail of what Mr. Markovanovic objected to. The SDP had in its pre-election programme that it would advocate, that it would work to pass laws or that it would legalise along with those with whom Croatia would eventually manage a direct choice of local officials. However, what is the problem and what we are trying to talk about today and last Friday, that is, Thursday, is the fact that the Government is consciously or unconsciously not fulfilling the promises it has made in this House, that it will come with a full bill of law and that there will be thirty of them that will be reformed by local self-government. This isn't just about one law. And praise is worth keeping pre-election promises, but this is a partial solution. I'm asking again. Why we don't have a law on the selection of local representative bodies at the same time. Then we would know the relationship between the executive and the local representative body. A lot of colleagues have expressed their desire that he won't even be needed in the end. We're talking about strengthening local self-government. Gentlemen, strengthening local self-government will not be the moment when the financial strengthening of local and regional self-government is not carried out. These are all empty stories. How will our citizens know what real candidates promise them if we don't know this hour with which money they have at all, what are the actual powers of the executive government, means the mayor and his deputy or mayor and his deputy and which representative bodies. I think we're talking a lot, but a part of our colleague was talking about ficus. We can now assume that the government will have or most in the Croatian Parliament of good intentions but you know the road to hell is filled with good intentions. We're going to take a few concrete remarks on the bill. Article 8 states that when the term of office of the local chief, mayor or mayor is terminated or may be terminated. I would like to hear from the government's representatives what and what will be defined in the future because everything here is what will be when it will be, we do not know in any way other than from stories by the media how the elected mayor or mayor will be resolved. There's a theoretical possibility that eventually, I'm asking that question now, a vote of no confidence to the deputy. What's the procedure after that? It seems to me that we simply don't know anything about it, and that is why it would be necessary for us to hear what is the relationship in one session of the Parliament, meaning some thematic session of the Parliament that would deal with only local self-government and how it will be dealt with. This way, perhaps one of you knows the government's hidden intentions, I admit I don't know them. I personally consider that only six months of housing or living in a local self-government unit is insufficient. Personally, I think it would be more appropriate for a year because our practice has shown and proved that people move very easily, which is what it is if we had such labour mobility as we have politicians' pre-election mobility would be phenomenal. The third thing is for MPs. I believe that, that's my personal point of view, that it should also be forbidden for MPs to be but not only in executive power. Let's go with duty decumulation but at all levels. Therefore, not only can MPs not be mayors, mayors, mayors or deputies in this case but also not be in lower representative bodies. It'll be a complete solution then, not that we're going to paralytically ban one of them and not the other. It would be a full contribution if democracy still spreads capillaryly throughout the country. As far as I'm concerned, I'm stressing it one more time, so the fact is that SDP also has nothing against direct choices, but it's also the fact that we should still get a whole set of laws because then we would know the whole relationship. This way we don't know them, and it can happen that before the parliamentary elections, we get some other laws. I know I'm repeating myself, but it's so important that it should be repeated. The consensus of political parties in the Croatian Parliament in the immediate selection, I don't think, is questionable. Whoever keeps to himself knows that's what the people want. But also those colleagues who think that after the first election round and yet some coalitions will agree. Whoever falls out or who falls into battle for the election for the mayor, mayor or mayor will always find a way, regardless of whether he is in a coalition to announce to the public which candidate he supports. Therefore, the law that we have enough time and my proposal is also a suggestion along with those who have already talked about this third reading and that the third reading does not come before we get a full set of laws, with the strengthening of local self-government primarily by decentralisation, strengthening powers and greater financial resources, because in this way self-government will live in the right sense of that word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65639	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65640	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Korenik said the government does not keep its pre-election promises on this issue. That's just not true. The very fact that this law is before us makes it clear that the government has very much fulfilled its pre-election promises. The second thing is that you failed in your mandates, although before 2000 you also promised to change the law, to go to a direct choice but you did not want to, you did not have political will or consent between yourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65641	Replica Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65642	So it's completely incorrect for HDZ to keep its pre-election promise because if it had fulfilled its pre-election promise then the elections would have been 2001. ... Don't play with the microphone. It's not a representative's duty. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] It's the president's duty to play with microphones. So let it go. I'm replicating my colleagues... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65643	Please, go ahead. Don't hang up. Who's turning off the microphone?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65644	Don't play co-workers. Unseriously, citizens will condemn it to representatives of the ruling coalition playing with microphones while there are such important problems in society. So it is quite true that HDZ has not fulfilled its pre-election promise. Because if it did, then in 2001, the citizens would choose directly. This law is dust in the eyes of citizens because HDZ is fulfilling the promise of a future parliament because this law refers to the year of gentlemen, not in 2001 unless HDZ intends to call elections during its term of office. Not local, not parliamentary, but local elections. And if that's the intention then okay. Okay, then. Then you will keep your promise. However, before the next parliamentary elections on this law, nothing will be possible under this law. Even as far as this law is concerned, nothing will be possible in 2009 because a bunch of other laws need to be amended so that they can be implemented. So don't talk to a colleague here in the hall about something he really isn't. That's not what you wanted. It didn't happen. Now a little dust is thrown into the eyes of the citizens and said, "This is what you might be able to do in 2009 if we change 35 more laws."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65645	If a representative asks a word to respond to the quote, replica, replica, suggests... The word is given as soon as the speech is finished to him who has spoken it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Replications should relate to the underlying exposure rather than to the corrections of the incorrect quotation Well, I think that's, let's not think about it, so we heard it all. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Right? The answer to Mr. Miroslav Korenik's replica. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65646	Dear Mr. Vice President, I've said it's commendable that the government is trying to keep promises, but she's unfortunately partially trying to keep them. I note that since the local elections, it has been exactly 30 months since the parliamentary elections. We had a local election last year. Let's remember May 15th last year there were local elections. So if promises are so fulfilled, if the government is so responsible, how come we didn't have a bill last year? So let's go for two years or I don't know for 19 months and then go to local elections under the new law. That's the point. And you, when you're prescribing or anyone when you're subscribing both to the SDP and then to the majority that she didn't have the will of the voter. Then there was no plebiscitarian will about going to a direct choice. It is only for, in 2003, for parliamentary elections that our electoral programme was to go directly to the election. So these are the flossules and throwing dust into the eyes as something was wanted or not wanted. However, the fact is that the government does not keep the pre-election promise because to be a pre-election promise we would have in full the words decentralisation as powers but even more fiscal. And there's no "R" from that either. When it comes to the Croatian Parliament together with this, then you will be able to say that you have fulfilled your pre-election promises. I ask you how many municipalities and cities you have today that have insufficient incomes and everything depends on the will of an official in the government or on the Prime Minister whether they get some money and develop locally. That's the point. This is just the tip of the iceberg. And what is most important about this, unfortunately, is not discussed in the Croatian Parliament and the question is will we discuss it in due course?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65647	Guys, that's what it's all about. This is where I quoted Article 209, paragraph 3. If there's anything else you could do, pretend to respond to a replica or replicate to someone you're replicating. At least somehow, yeah? I think so. We know what we're talking about. Right? Replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65648	You see, you're telling me why we don't have changes to the Law on Local Self-Government at the same time if it makes sense for them to come? You see, colleague of the Korenikas, it would be logical for the amendments to that law to come if it were to be clearly sought without any intention to resolve this issue. But if there's something going on, if you really want to throw the dust in your eyes, then it makes sense that only this law that everyone supports comes. Because no one has anything against immediate choice. Well, there's no SDP. Well, the SDP makes a difference. So if it were a direct choice of mayor, there would be no Pintaric in Sisak who was told by the citizens, "You won't be mayor. We don't want you brother to be mayor." And he bought two councilmen, so he's the mayor. [[The intruders don't understand.]] You're telling your colleague, Korenik, that there's a need to resolve the funding issue. Not just the financing of my colleague, Korenik. [[/Intruder: That's right!]] There is also a question of responsibility for spending money. So they're gonna give the citizens a direct choice of mayor. They're going to pick Romko immediately tomorrow, and what's it worth to them? When the former mayor brought the county into bankruptcy. And nothing to anyone. So who does the former mayor answer to? No, he's a respected representative in the Parliament today. To whom and to whom does he answer that he robbed the citizens along with his friend Zeco de facto? He put the county in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65649	Come on, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65650	Therefore [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65651	Come on, please! Hang on...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65652	Therefore, colleague Korenika, colleague of the Korenika... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65653	You're not a judge, Mr. Stazic. Don't take too much... rights [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can't insult a representative here. [[Agreement: But I am a representative so I can speak, give myself a Constitution read.]] You can do anything. [[You can do it. All right, all right. Read the Constitution.]] You can do anything. [[Intruder: Ma Constitution read.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65654	Read the Constitution and it will be clearer to you. Therefore, colleague Korenika, colleague of Korenika Which is worth this call to logic when we still have Pintaric we still have Bagaric who leaves the county in bankruptcy. [[Intruder: Stick to the answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65655	Thank you very much. You're Mr. Stazic, you're really going through all the time and systematically every step of the way. You allow yourself a lot of things. You're insulting the MPs. You judge as if you're a judge. Calm down, come to your senses and become like the other representatives normally in the Croatian Parliament. The answer to Mr. Korenik's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not without reason that the government is supposed to keep pre-election promises and that's pretty partial. Because the fact is, within six months, I'm not sure we're going to get any other laws on reforming local and regional self-government. Because I agree if there are no finances then in that, or if there is no decentralisation of finance, local self-government will hardly strengthen. It will strengthen on paper and again we have the possibility that, as I have already said, someone from the government, whether it is a clerk, a minister, anyone who, yes, doesn't give to another. And you should give and prescribe clear rules of play. From health care, from education, from communal arrangements and everything else. Responsibility, I can have and I guess we can all believe that the government doesn't have any bad hidden intentions. But yes, but I'm not so sure about that. But it would also be logical and normal if we had a law on the selection of representative bodies here, if we knew the relationship between the representative body and the holder of the executive authority. We know absolutely nothing about it, we know about responsibility. That's the responsibility you're looking for. The other thing is whether we all respect it when we're on some other duties of the laws of this country. As I recall when we were elected to sign that we would respect the Constitution, the laws and everything else. It only remains often empty rhetoric. Life clearly teaches us that something is different. It seems to me that around this law a lot of larma and for nothing. After the parliamentary elections, we can expect some other solutions, at least in my deep conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65657	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65658	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me briefly get involved in the debate about this law. So, which tells us that in the future we could or should therefore directly choose our mayors and mayors and mayors. So one of the objectives of this law should certainly be to stabilise the electoral process in the system of local and regional self-government. Unfortunately, we are witnessing, therefore, from a number of examples that have been mentioned in the debate so far that the current and existing electoral system actually generates a number of crisis situations in this system, which ultimately results in, for example, political parties at the very bottom of citizens' trust. Here I have this research that was conducted right after the last local elections. So, in May or June of 2005, which tells us about it, that political parties are at the very bottom of people's trust. That's it. that the respondents questioned whether you trusted state institutions on the scales just gave the lowest score to political parties. After the 2001 local elections, political parties received a score of 2.1, and after the 2005 local elections, the score fell to 2.0. Other state institutions have a slightly higher grade but not important. But what concerns us most as political workers, as members of political parties, is therefore the low rating we received from our citizens. So, from people who could and should get trust, especially when it comes to elections, and the fact is that this grade, we get a low grade right after the election. What we should do to these and such laws, among other things, to restore the trust of our voters, and we can do so in a way that we can achieve the basic principle of this election, i.e.. to keep each voter safe in his voice, i.e. to be sure, therefore, that his voice will go in order to improve the situation in his municipality, not that his voice goes in order to ensure the authority of a particular individual or political option, and sometimes it is not even safe. It is often known, therefore, that the vote given to one individual or political option ends up in the opposite camp. That's what's causing the dissatisfaction. This causes frustration on people and unfortunately what we have for the result is that from choice to choice we reduce the number of people who are therefore going to the elections. It should be the opposite. So I'm talking about stabilising the entire local and regional self-government system. So here we're talking about a part that's talking about direct elections. I agree with all of those, therefore, that it is actually part of this system, that we cannot stabilise and improve this system unless we agree with it and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Unless we also comply with the Law on Elections of Representative Authorities in such a way as to introduce a direct selection of members of the Council, i.e. In my opinion, it would be a mixed system like we had before, and I also agree with those that this system should certainly include the Law on the financing of our municipalities, cities and counties because I am also asking myself what this directly elected chief will do and in some municipality that has a budget of a million and a half or two million inhabitants. So a large part of that budget will go to pay. We may be left with a budget from which one or two projects will be able to finance, and for that, several working days a year, and not all year and such status will therefore be directly elected by the Chief. I certainly support the way for the mayors and mayors and mayors to be elected directly. This should therefore lead to greater transparency in local self-government and should create more efficient management of local self-government services and meet the needs of citizens. Also, one of the advantages of the direct holder of the executive power is the political, democratic and moral legitimacy that brings with it the direct choice of the mayor by the citizens, unlike the one chosen by the council group. So we have the law here that's purely by me technical law that says that this chief and his deputy are going to choose. But unfortunately, we don't have answers to much more important questions. So, what will be the relationship between this mayor and the representative body? It certainly matters to me that this relationship is balanced. It is also important to have clear legal provisions defining the roles and relations of different institutions of local self-government. Unfortunately, we do not now, and I agree with those who are talking about having to go to the same time as the amendments to this law and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government so as not to happen to us, for example. This Law on Local and Regional Self-Government has put an end to the intentions of this law that we have a stronger and more independent, and an independent chief, i.e. To restrict his powers by the Law of Local Self-Government, bring him down, as it has been said several times here to a simple ficus. I don't think that would be good, so we should legally define the relationship between these different levels in order to prevent potential hotspots from occurring in the future. As far as the Law on Elections is concerned, I think I've already said before that we should return to the mixed system so that we have one side and a strong mayor, but also on the other hand that we have a council, a representative body that would also have the support of citizens, i.e. that a certain part of the council is elected by direct elections. And I also agree that it is also very important to amend the Finance Act. Unfortunately, we have heard reports here that some important examples will not come. And as an example of the current situation in our units of local and regional self-government, I can give you an example of the Međimurje County. The Međimurje County in 2004 had total budgets, so all the budgets and the county itself and three cities and all the municipalities were 250 million kuna. Just to remind you that Međimurje County has 2 and a half percent of the population of the Republic of Croatia because it is the densest populated area. The 250 million total budgets relative to the state budget are 0.25%, 0.25%, so a quarter of one percent, so budgets are compared to 2 and a half percent of the population. Or if we divide it into months or years, so by the number of inhabitants in 2004, we return to the citizens by the number of inhabitants for the whole year 2004 2 thousand kuna, or which would monthly be 166 kuna, so all income, tax revenues, all cities, municipalities and county in Međimurje County. I think it's actually the key to everything and that we should go to fiscal decentralisation as soon as possible. So let me repeat, I will not support this law. I will be restrained, as I have announced on behalf of the club, because I think this whole problem should be dealt with in a systematic way, that we have a concept so that we can adapt to this concept all of these laws that are related to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65659	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65660	So colleague Pavlic, not only do we not have answers to some questions or to most of the questions raised here as a dilemma. But here is the question of the application of this law at all. Because I personally believe that it is completely incorrectly defined in the transitional and final provisions of Article 96 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union since the application of this law. It is said, therefore, that the law will take effect 8 days from the day of its publication in "The People's News" and will apply to the first subsequent regular elections of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. If this provision remains like this, this law is inadmissible. Because in this provision, at least two more things should stand. And that is still what all laws must change to make this law applicable. Because if we pass this law, adopt and do not amend at least two more laws, and these are the Law on election of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional, regional, self-government and the Law on Local Self-Government, then, regardless of this legal provision set out in the transitional and final provisions of Article 96, this law will not apply. It should therefore be conditioned that this law applies to these first subsequent elections, however, provided that these two other laws are amended in the meantime. Secondly, it should be said that before these next local elections, regular local elections of local self-government units must change their statutes. Because if the units of local self-government do not change the statutes before the local elections and there is an election under this law which will then be applied it will be obvious that the statutes will not be in any way in accordance with this law, i.e. the elected leaders will not be able to enter into office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65661	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Peace, there's no answer. I respect the Rules of Procedure. The gentleman answered the line, but Mr. Pavlica didn't answer. You understand? It's all right. Right? Let's move on. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65662	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. If citizens want a direct selection of municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors, then we need to determine for such a procedure, we need to regulate the legal framework and translate that desire into a law establishing the rights and obligations, and the direct choice procedure itself. I deliberately said that if citizens wanted to, since I have not seen a stronger poll anywhere, a poll that answers a whole set of questions, let alone a public debate that would confirm that the citizens really only want this as changes in the electoral system, and I mean a complete electoral system from local self-government to government and Parliament. Here are estimates that 85% of citizens want a direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. That's possible and true. But one survey is not a credible method to determine, especially not on-line poll, it was on the government's pages or daily press, which determines the real mood of citizens. You know these high figures that are discussed here, Croatia last experienced 15 years ago, and if I remember correctly after that, we didn't have a referendum on any of this. Therefore, I do not think that it is responsible to swear to the figures that he is a line of survey and to present that this is a public opinion especially because the whole set of questions has not been clarified yet. This is certainly a good topic for an attractive political debate in the Croatian Parliament, but it cannot be a big and important newspaper in the electoral system, nor is this about the root change of the electoral system. This could be a good step and a good experiment that can show whether changes in the electoral system are going in the direction that citizens expect. In order to prove the quality of the solutions offered to representatives of the Croatian Parliament, it was necessary to offer a minimum simulation of the functioning of the future system of local, regional or regional self-government. It was necessary to say, as a minimum, what everything and in what laws should be changed in order for the system to be clear, uniform, efficient and stable, of course. Of course, such simulations of the functioning of the system should have been presented to the public, and if it really is thought and wants to respect the will of the citizens and to do the transparency. It would certainly be acceptable for me to discuss with this law at least in the bloc the amendments and additions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government at least in part of the election of members of representative bodies and part of the right to obligations and powers of representative bodies in relation to the executive power. I would also support the reference of this proposal for the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb in the third reading, due to a large number of amendments, i.e. because of the lack of greater political consent in this House that this is a good solution. I can't figure out how it's going to work, that's what's going to explain it. How this application of this direct choice system will contribute to a higher level of stability of the representative body, and thus to the effectiveness of the executive authority if there is a re-recurring relationship, i.e. the circumstances of re-election in a large number of local units. In my humble assessment, we don't have a lot of repeat choices compared to the number of units of local, regional (regional) self-government. This year's extraordinary elections in politically significant and trousical units do not mean that we have a statistically large number of repetitive elections. I'm afraid there will only be more under this law. I boldly state that under this law, the local unit will only have greater stability if the party or parties supporting the mayor, mayor or mayor in the representative body have an unquestionable majority of mandates. Where this is not the case, the continuity of the instability and continuity of the elections will be present. If, by reason of the citizens' will, a quality person, real authority in a city, municipality or county gets a mandate and his list has no support for the representative body, it is possible that the mayor, mayor or mayor will be exhausted in convincing the representative body of the quality of their programmes that will never pass, and will prove only the ineffectiveness of that person. The effectiveness of the executive authority certainly depends on one part and on the holder of the executive authority, but it certainly depends more on the openness and professionality of the city's administration, municipal, county administrations towards citizens, as well as on their professional activities. I repeat, if the mayor, mayor or mayor has strong support, that is, the political majority that supports it, there will be stability and efficiency, and if it is not only uncertainty, or instability. So the current sheriffs as we love them will probably become marshals, and where they're dancing on the wire now, they'll dance even more. This bill has its quality provisions, and it must not be forgotten, it is a compliment. So it has its quality provisions that can be a good basis for designing the entire system and should not be easily criticised by this law. This bill also provides a number of amendments that are nomotechnically and substancefully correcting this bill, and I would be very happy to have the proposal that the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts a number of these amendments, install them in the final draft of the law. I don't think this is a topic for a political match, that it's a serious task and a step in changing the electoral system that certainly deserves a greater political agreement in this House of Commons. Out of concrete remarks, I think the article 16 exaggerated with the number of signatures for the city over 35,000 inhabitants and the right measures would be to collect a thousand signatures, and have the city of over 100,000 voters collect 2,000 signatures. Insufficiently well-defined selection of deputies, chiefs, mayors and mayors, and this is particularly undefined in cases where the statute of the local unit establishes that the deputy should be a member of the minority national community. I haven't found the provisions, and I don't think there's any reason to know whether or not to allow the simultaneousness of the candidacy for executive and representative authority, and that's an important understanding, is it? Whether independent lists will double their signatures for the list and candidates before the election, for the mayors, mayors and the county and vice-presidents, it may also be a rather confusing situation. I believe that their relationship is inextricably tied, and in no case can this mandate be segregated. They can agree with a number of MPs that direct elections for the mayor, mayor and mayor have a positive effect in the fight against electoral abstinence, but should be serious and responsible and say that it is only a good bait for greater voter turnout and that at the same time the members of the representative bodies, most of the parties established on the political scene account, will receive greater support and legitimacy from voters. The cost of the election will certainly be higher. I am personally well reserved for possible effects, especially in the essential nature of this law, so I will finally give my judgment on this law after I have learned of the possible reference of this law to third reading and the acceptance of some by my court of very high quality amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65663	We have four replicas to prepare you for a long period of replica. The first is Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65664	Thank you, Mr. President. You're a colleague of the Hrelja in your debate said, you've actually assessed this bill that it's a good thing for an attractive political debate. Here I absolutely agree with you, however, that we are too serious and that the Croatian Parliament should have an extremely high level of responsibility when all laws are passed. Therefore, an attractive political debate, it does not belong in this House and, in fact, throughout today's debate, is trying to create the impression that the opposition is in some way against the direct election of mayors, municipal mayors and mayors. However, it seems to me that neither of us nor anyone in his debate has said that it is against the direct choice. We all agree, and we are all for direct choices, but what we are trying to say and trying to point out, which is, we are trying to point out a series of illogicalities and indeterminateness in this proposed law, and that is why we advocate that this bill goes into third reading. Because I don't think the amendments to all that illogicality could fix it. Here is just one example, you have also pointed out many examples in your presentation, but one example is that it is not solved how cases will be solved when, for some reason, the deputy mayor, or mayor, has been called off. He's under the bill of law to be selected in a package. And besides, it also creates the impression that actually the adoption of this Law is a magic wand that will solve all the problems. However, it will not be resolved as long as the local administration units do not have enough power and resources to solve their problems the way citizens want them to. And only then will citizens' trust in institutions begin to return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65665	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65666	Dear colleagues, it is true that I have said that this is a good topic for an attractive political debate and I agree with you that we should refrain from this attractive part and discuss fundamental problems in this Croatian Assembly. However, I am a witness like you that a lot of our colleagues, for some time perhaps we ourselves, cannot refrain from this attractiveness which is certainly not good. And I just wanted to find out that that's the way it is. In any case, I do not accept that this is a good procedure in the Croatian Parliament. I also share your opinion that with the direct selection of the mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, we will not solve all the problems neither the electoral system nor all the problems of the units of local, regional, or regional self-government because this simply is not possible. We can say exactly, we are for direct selection, but we are also the root change of this entire electoral system, but which in one quality, transparent way would be presented in public debate to the Croatian public to know the essence of these changes. And not that this lure requires plebiscite support for and that it is actually shown as a total change in the electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65667	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65668	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I agree more or less with what the esteemed colleague was saying with the fact that I must immediately say that, unfortunately, amendments cannot be corrected by this legal text in order to get one elaborate, whole, codified legal project that will give an advance picture of what will and how it will take place. If that were the case then it would be logical, which I would suggest we have, but unfortunately we don't, it would immediately be logical to test this project and so that in those, say, cities and municipalities where the re-elections would take place then it would have to go and in part check it out in teams of municipalities and cities. But unfortunately, we can't do it now because the relationship between the representative body and the chosen body isn't arranged. And it would be the smartest thing if it was all arranged, what I was saying and... and what you, my colleague, have been saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we could see in what it looks like. This means, let us take an example of two municipalities, not all of them, where two cities will repeat themselves. And eventually county, if any happens, and then we have a situation where it's possible to look at until the regular local elections that will take place in 2009. How come we don't have anything? We have these kind of attempts that we've proven by simulations that they don't hold water and we have whether or not something's going to work out, when they don't know it. In what form you don't know. Who will, and you don't know it. And therefore, we have one close encounter of a third species when they come not knowing, with whom they will not know, in which way they are not known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65669	Answer, Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65670	Dear counterpart Kovacevic, I must remind you that I have said that my final position on this bill will depend on the proposing's willingness to accept the third reading. I mean, to accept the amendments. I have determined for the amendments that they are of quality, and as far as the content and nomotechnical expressions are concerned, I would not easily reject the possibility of repairing the final text of the Law with amendments. Since I repeat again, according to my humble assessment, the amendments proposed for the text of this Law are very high-quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65671	Thank you. Replica, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Hrelja said that the law is unarranged especially when the topic is, when the topic hits the rights of certain minorities, such as in Istria, to have a mayor, a deputy mayor from their ranks. I remind, I remind. In Istria, in all cities and in all municipalities where historical Italians live, they have the right to a deputy. One of the deputies. This law here actually changes the rules of the game and will very soon start to ask the next question. Is the law stronger or are the statutes stronger? Do they have to change statutes or statutes as they are today, they are actually supplementing the law already today? I wouldn't be surprised if it became very fast and constitutional matter, matter for the Constitutional Court. So, in the next election, will all the lists, for example? for Pula, all the lists in Pula and all the parties must have except the mayor of the deputy mayor who in this case is Italian because so says the statute. Or the other way around, or the other way around. Or this law actually derivates the statutes, so the statutes will have to be adapted to this law. In fact, if the rules of the game change, then I can say that not only do I express concern as Mr. Hrelja but I say in this case, then minority rights are sometimes restored, and human rights. And we need to start thinking about it seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65673	Answer, Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65674	So I thank Mr. Radin for in some way expanding this subject and clarifying this subject, and I hope that my concern is now justified to him, because in the end, I said that this was to be specified in the law, because, in all likelihood, if we are to do so in the law, then the way in which the deputy mayor or mayor is elected as members of another national community, then we do not have to intervene in the statutes, or because it is at the level of value of a stronger act, and then we have solved a lot of possible problems that are opening up here and potential threats to the rights of national communities and human rights, therefore, and it was my suggestion that the proposal would further clarify that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65675	Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65676	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja, you're saying that we don't have a lot of repeat local choices statistically and that we've had repetitions in politically significant environments. No, I don't. That's not true. Repeating the elections was where the trade in mandates took place and watch it not everywhere, not in Karlovac where the trade was recorded, Minister Vukelic signed a trade contract, everyone knows it, published in the paper, not in Sisak, and not in Sisak where Pintaric bought two SDP councilors and won power beyond the will of citizens. Where did the repetition occur? There was a repetition where HDZ found itself in opposite positions. In one middle... to lose power over the sale of the coalition partner's mandate, and in the second, he had a chance to win power by buying the mandate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, whatever side he's made up his mind, he'd have to lose power somewhere. That is why the government has decided to discuss elections in the two electoral units, not in all, in which the power was won by trade in mandates. It's just one reality, our citizens know it, they don't need to be explained to them, the citizens of Sisak know it, so they know who they think they're mayor and they know who they choose. They know they didn't vote for Pintaric and they know he didn't get enough votes and they know he got fewer votes than his competitor and they know he forced himself on them as mayor by buying the mandate. That doesn't have to be explained to the citizens. In the re-election, citizens showed that such practice and wherever these elections were held, HDZ was punished and lost power.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65677	Answer, Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65678	Dear colleague Stazić, I ask you that no matter what you have the right to say that it is not true that these are political thorny areas, you have the right to deny my opinion regarding a statistically larger or smaller number of repetitive choices, you have the right to do so, but I also have the right to have an individual assessment and to say that this is not an excessive number of repetitive choices. Also, you also know well that only those who mistrade are foretold it so or who have naively entered the store are shown and you also know well that every election is roulette, because look exactly the opposite shows the Sunday elections in Bakru from what you said. I didn't want to play any games, but it's a very different and very susceptible change maybe from month to month, so I wouldn't bring the courts, but I would allow your criticism and your replica to my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65679	Thank you very much. It's 13 and 25 now. Does Mr. Cain insist on being first in three hours? Come on, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65680	I'm waiting disciplined here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65681	Mr. Cain, which I hope won't cause a lot of replicas, and then we'll have lunch later. Here's the replica. It's in advance. Replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65682	But I have a constructive proposal that before this law, the Law on the election of mayors, mayors, or mayors should... Our Rules of Procedure that members of the same club don't replicate themselves. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Whether it's IDS, SDP, HDZ or anyone else. That device is mocking the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't make any sense anymore, and so does our patience. Secondly, what I want to say to Croatia at national level means when it comes to the election of parliamentary deputies, it certainly has an appropriate law. It should also be said that this legal proposal was passed there in '99. The year did not write politics, was written by an independent group headed by Mrs. Gaspovic. What is the problem with this Law for selecting MPs at national level is that minorities there do not have a double right to vote, which punishes, above all, those parties who sincerely care about minorities. So in that part, such a legal proposal is discriminatory and certainly not fair. Most honestly, it would certainly be that parliamentary deputies are elected directly, meaning directly, however, they do not agree to this power finding primarily by the large party. But once again, Croatia certainly has one suitable electoral law. Second. Who stands for the direct selection of the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor? They argue primarily with our citizens, and that's okay, that's what we need to respect, that's what we need to respect. The mayors, mayors, or mayors, also advocate such a model by holding that they have a certain advantage over others. For such a model, every executive authority shall also be represented. Why? Because it is easier for the prime minister in one river to make direct arrangements with Mr. Komadin than with the city council, in one Pazin or Pula with Jakovcic than with the county assembly, in Zagreb with Mr. Bandic than with the county assembly, in Osijek with Mr. Glavas, pardon this Djapic or Kramaric when he was in that position rather than with the city council. If such an election model fits I'll tell the IDS, but on the other hand we have to be honest and admit that life is a little more complex and more concrete and I'm glad that Mr Furio Radin, I'll talk about it later, made one serious complaint to this matter for reasons that would endanger the constitutional position of national minorities in a whole series of local self-governments. It's not just about Istria, it's about those environments where, say, Serbs are based on the constitutional law to give, speak now under the quotes of the deputy mayor or mayor, however, Deputy Mayor, etc. and in those environments where the majority Serb population is given to another deputy by representatives of the Croatian nation, or Hungarian, anyway, the Czech Republic. In the 1990s, we've all been there in the other half asking for the semi-presidential system in this country to be replaced by a parliamentary system and now at the local level we're introducing a pure presidential system. We have to mention it, and we have to ask ourselves if it's good. Maybe it's good. IDS is actually 100% for this election law. Why? Because the citizens want it, it's number one. And number two or so anyway because as strangers, that's fine with us. However, I claim that the most honest electoral model was the one we had in 1993 where half the councilman was. ... Excuse me, 1992, where half the councilman was elected directly. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Or third, come on, pick directly and half of them were selected from the list. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now the question is whether it is better to choose twenty-five or twenty-six directly in a county like Pula where there are twenty-five councilmen to choose 13 directly or just one. Why, on the other hand, can we not agree on a direct choice at this national level? Why are we defending the double right to vote on minorities? Why won't what's really matter, what everyone mentions, at least from this middle up there to the left, mean actual decentralisation? Why are we not for real regionalisation, real redistribution of financial resources between the country on the one hand and local self-government on the other. Mr Mršić mentioned 590 units of local self-government, municipalities, cities in the Republic of Croatia achieve 6%, the city of Zagreb 6-6.5%, the country of the remaining 97 to 98%. Croatia as much as it might be to someone... It sounded the fastest to develop according to the 1974 Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I speak in this area when local self-government is due. At that time, the congregations were elected by judges which may not have been the best but also by the head of finance and police, and the catastra, and the people's defenses, and today our mayors, the mayors, can't even influence the behaviour of the matriarchs. I can't today. He's not even a mothermaker's behavior because he's a civil servant. So, the point in this local self-government is this financial autonomy of these environments, which is the essence of fiscal autonomy, autonomy about authority, autonomy about the choice of their associates, about the management of goods, etc. Clearly, that constitution has been thirty years. It has passed, but Croatia has to admit, it was the fastest development in Croatia if for no other reason than at the time the local self-government kept 60% of the fiscal resources in its space 40% headed towards the state or federal institutions. On the other hand, Croatia, among other things, is at the very least falling back because of this supernadal system of local self-government. Croatia still has not reached industrial production and not even the gross product of the 89th year. There was a war, we lost markets, and the other countries went into transition, etc. But no matter what, they're facts we can't skip. On the other hand, Croatia is metropolitanised, the electoral law at national level still protects us from this bipolarisation. Bipolarisation is certainly not good, it leads to divisions or duplication of the population that took place in Italy, Montenegro, etc. and Zagreb, because of its financial position where all the institutions of this country are located from state ministries to banks, is simply beginning to suck up the Republic of Croatia, both politically and economically and increasingly the gentlemen of finance. So, what should Croatia do? It needs to be decentralised, it needs to be regionalized not by model four times four as if we are going to some races but it simply needs to be recognized, a quad drive but simply recognizes those counties or regions of Istria, Slavonia, Dalmatia, the Rijeka region, I don't know Međimurje, Dubrovnik, Baranja etc. And for the end one more time. How to respect these minority rights in those environments where it is constitutional, or where it is a constitutional obligation, but above all a civil obligation. That mention of the statutes which the IDS adopted, for example, on the proposal of minorities, etc. in Istria, it hasn't been since 1993. It's simple, I'll say, from 43 or 50 years and some years. These are serious issues that we here still have to agree on in order to avoid the degradation of these minority standards. The law agrees to the third reading and... Incopatibility as I interpret the mayor's law can be a representative, that's certainly not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What if the deputy resigns, why this collection of signatures for political parties, etc. But is it appropriate to protect these minority standards to go towards decentralisation or regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia? At some point, the government must replace the mayor or city council, not just a referendum. What if one of us MPs were directly elected commits some crime. So who's gonna take my immunity?- I'm sorry. Well, it's going to be taken down by this Dom. And also when it's a crime, it has to be done by the local council.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65683	Thank you very much. We have one replica and one correction. First replica, Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65684	Dear fellow Cain, you have said the totally opposing views you have made. First you said that the direct choice of the mayor, mayor, mayor and mayor of the city of Zagreb is the will of the citizens. Then you said it fits your party's beliefs. And then you said it would be fairer if the elections were therefore conducted under the 1992 Electoral Law. So, I ask you only to determine whether you are for the interests of the party, the interests of the citizens or the interests of the right that you so bitterly represent in the Croatian Parliament. And secondly, I'm not so young that I don't know that since 75 years of age, this country has been singled out for Croatia but also very much has stood out for undeveloped in all parts of the former, former state. So I'd like to ask, I'd like to question some of your statements. [[Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65685	Thank you. Mr. Cain's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65686	I didn't really want to answer with a replica right now, but first I'll go from behind. In 1974, local self-government had as much as 60% of the fiscal resources achieved in its space. Today our cities, the municipalities of Pula to Buzet, from... , Zagreb is a little different, from Rijeka to Split and so on fail to earn more than 6% of the funds generated in their premises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just a matter. It went undeveloped, Mr. Hrelja, told federal institutions, for republican institutions, but the bottom line is that 60% of the fiscal resources remained in the environment where these funds were achieved. That's a fact. Today 6% of the dinars, okay, dinars. And on the other hand, IDS is primarily a party that respects certain principles but we are also pragmatic. We are the ones who will go through the will of the citizens and say, "No. We are against direct elections."We are for direct elections because it suits us, but will citizens, after this next term of direct elections, figure out how good it is or how bad it is? In some ways, it's good, but there's a lot of risk. And I always say between 25 directly elected councilmen and one, so it was him and the mayor's office that might be better to choose these 25, but as far as IDS is concerned, he will absolutely support these proposed changes because I said it suits us politically. Then we won't have one Labin where you're in the HSS coalition with the SDP all... Then everyone along with HDZ and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 'Cause But it didn't just happen to us where we got 45%. [[The intruders don't understand.]] We got 45% in one Visnjan or Visinadi and the same situation happened again. Therefore, if it suits someone with such an election model, it corresponds to the IDS and Two hands we'll raise for him just to get him... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65687	Thank you. Correction Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65688	Well, here's to correct my colleague Caine who said that the best, the most honest, the most qualitative choice was in 1974. Then they... Oh, my God! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The congregations are here to choose, I can... Judges all the way, so the directors of the Catastres, I can add school directors, hospitals, directors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was one tiny condition only. To be members of the Party. And we all the other mortals didn't stand a chance. So much for honesty. I remember in Virovitica two families that were horizontally changing. One year he was the director of the sugar company and the director, so the president of the municipality... And so on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65689	Thank you very much. The session continues at 15.15. To compensate these 15 minutes and the first is precisely Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic, then Velimir Plesa and two by five minutes 2 clubs. Party at 13.43 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65690	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and debate on the final draft law on the election of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65691	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the reason why we passed the Law on election of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb we mostly heard. So there was also the desire of our representatives, the desire of the parties, the wishes of the public of different associations. However, we can see now that when desires begin to fulfill that they have then gone a little bit into a simulation of what they are going to be, so the desires become a little bit already, they turn a little bit into a sadder way of expression. The way the election will certainly increase the interest in the elections, as the name is nevertheless the party's name, and each name especially in small areas means more than the party. What can happen, and it will likely happen in many places that many mayors, mayors, will even be non - party people. It will happen there, too, that those who are able to finance well and the campaign will be better off. Or those who hire a number of people so they'll probably be a lot of surprises. The election costs will certainly increase, as I assume that at least two-thirds of the MPs, two-thirds of the mayor, the mayor, will be elected in the second round. I'm not exactly as pessimistic as here's a colleague of Kovacevic who's mentioned for four years that it's going to take them somewhere to pick the man in charge. But the costs will certainly be higher. It's a good thing the election for the mayors, mayors and representative bodies are at the same time because otherwise the costs would be even higher, and I think the election dates would be smaller. It is certain that after this, changes and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government should be made, and I just think that it is good that this law went alone, because it is from our debates and many of us have actually talked about this next law during these discussions today and the previous day, so the promoters will certainly make sure that there is something in this law and of what we consider to be good and useful. There should be good thinking about the resolution of the head man, so the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. In what way will it be good not to be, that the council doesn't really remember every moment, but now we're not like-minded, so we're gonna get rid of you because after such a proposal, if it doesn't pass, we've heard that punishment and that punishment should be just as it was announced. I believe the independence of the mayor's decision will grow, not that it will be smaller. Clearly, the Council can limit, so it finally restricts activity and restricts business through the budget. The budget is actually a framework in which the mayor, mayor, mayor, moves and the council can certainly impose an opinion. So far, the manipulations in the elections may be less. Let us remember that there have been countless cases where some party has received a single councilman and has blackmailed in fact that this councilman is the captain, or the mayor falls in power or power cannot be formed. In this case it will be a name and that name no matter who it belongs to will pass. Furthermore, it was said that MPs could not be mayors, or that mayors and mayors could not be representatives. I think that's good. We just see our mayors here occasionally. Here we have the honor of seeing Mr. Picula for a long time. Mr. Vidovic, while he was mayor, did not appear here at all and many other examples here. So we see that some mayor is rewarded with applause here when he comes and stuff like that. I don't think that's good. Here I have shown by example that this is better, because in fact I have given up the seat of the mayor of the municipality so that I can do this job honestly, because one thing's certainly not going. It's good to avoid this fictitious residence, so that for at least six months it will be a registered candidate. That's what I support, maybe longer. Article 16 does not make any sense to me because it is a different criterion for the city and the municipality. There are small towns, there are large municipalities. It'll be very easy to collect signatures somewhere. In a small town, it'll be hard to collect signatures. Maybe we're not doing a division like that, we're doing it according to the population. Then onwards, I'm a little bit of a deputy, so we're gonna have to watch out for what's gonna happen to the deputies. The deputies are going in the package now. However, if I may be two deputies, three deputies. Let's see if the mayors have two, three mayors. Some mayors also several mayors, when they change, under what conditions. It's going to need in the next law to really decode it. That should be foreseen in the next law. There's been a lot of talk about decentralisation. But that's where I have my opinion. Decentralisation will bring more to rich municipalities and cities, the poor will not bring almost anything, because they now have very little, so, yes, in some, all taxes are left and still can't go on. The decentralisation of money will bring out clearly increased commitments and I think that there are some great benefits besides perhaps the possibility of greater interference and will not be. As a matter of fact, this law is only coming into force for three years. I think all the other laws will fit into this law, and finally on the following laws we decide, not to turn out now that this law is one, the other will have nothing to do with this, and finally on this other law, the next law we expect will also be given the last word. I think this law should be supported and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65692	Thank you. Four replicas. First, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65693	Here's the esteemed president, colleagues and colleagues. Since my colleague mentioned me in that simulation, but I tried to stick to it that, as in chess, a good chess player is one who can predict at least 3 moves of his opponent, these others are bad. At least three, I say, and he'll get the first or second group. And if he predicts and means more, he can become a master, a master, and everything else. That's how I feel about making the law. When making laws if you cannot predict and simulate what it will look like in practice, how it will apply then we get the law we get. That's why I tried to simulate the variant in a small municipality I called Mroda Middle where it's possible that they always have elections, elections, elections, elections. Then they have a referendum, and then they go back to the election and they spend all the money from the budget because we've got some solutions here that aren't right, and there's not one whole again. So, the thing is simple. That is why we need to pre-immute all regulations, hence here in the assembly and the proposings so that it would be easier to apply and implement and to achieve what is intended to happen. But unfortunately I say this can be led to absurd if you look at the provisions, even though it is seen how any action is possible to carry out and again at the beginning of the elections, and again the referendum, and so the elections pass the whole term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65694	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65695	Thank you very much. Well, here, I have to replicate my colleagues. Namely, when he talked about these cases that must be extremely rare cases, of which I don't know 540, 560 cases might be one, two. He mentioned that the law should perhaps be incorporated into that in case of an equal number of votes to go by alphabet or extract from the hat, from the drum. I mean, it certainly wouldn't be good to get into a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65696	Second replica, Honored Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65697	Well, Mr. President, here's when fellow Markovanovic said that when this desire begins, or the pre-election promises start to come true, that after the simulation some become sad. I'd ask my colleague to explain it a little bit more, because he obviously knows what we don't know. The choices that are yet to be, the circle of happiness is turning politically. We know that both often and state policy has an impact on local elections and everything else. He already knows who the sad ones are, so he'd ask him to explain it to us. Here, maybe we're not well-informed enough. As for the mayor or the mayor or the mayor who he says and he stands for what we advocate and we from the opposition. I would now ask him openly if he will support the amendment of his colleague, Lesar, when it becomes known about this law on Friday. Because often times because of the public when we're in front of the glow camera, it's said in the name of clubs of everything and everything. When the vote comes, that famous Friday when we join, then everyone suddenly forgets and does not support such amendments. I'd like to pray to him, especially I'll watch him plead on Friday. And as far as decentralisation itself is concerned. Well, the fact is, by decentralisation local and regional self-government will have greater obligations. However, for those who do not have income and are now scheduled in the state budget to receive assistance from the central state. Only then will we have to have clear criteria on how much, based on which any municipality or city, if underdeveloped, will receive money. But there will be no political decision, but there will be clear criteria. So if income per capita is that high, maybe that much capacity. But unfortunately, as long as someone else decides to do it without criteria, we have this sad situation that we have. But let's not let because we have in Croatia and rich that they can't develop, so let's go if we're poor enough to all be equally poor. That can't be why we're not going into further decentralisation of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65698	If there's a vote on this on Friday. Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65699	Well, he shouldn't be particularly wise. He just listens to the people here, right? And then it gets summed up in the end and it goes like that. All MPs, except for the SDP, supported this, and supported it. But you're starting to express one step back, so it'd be better this way, better that way, this one can't be, this one can be something like that, which is what a colleague here says. So I thought you'd changed your mind, you know. Here, I apologize if you're not. But I believe every simulation doesn't work for you for sure, either way. As far as decentralisation is concerned. Well, it's true that the state is now giving to those who don't. So they're going to have to give them more. And will these small municipalities, small towns and general ability be able to take any of the decentralisation. It's very difficult right now. Great cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, cans, I can certainly Koprivnica, no colleagues, and so on, they certainly can. The election itself will finally show it, but they're still really far away. So we don't want to talk about the forecasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65700	Third replica, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65701	Thank you, Mr. President. I need to replicate to an esteemed colleague. It's not nice to remind yourself that some mayors who are also MPs that when they go in there, they're laughing at them. One thing is legal solutions, and something else is the practice of some people you answer for. I don't think those solutions are bad. The more there is indeed a much more developed country where it is entirely possible to be also a parliamentary representative and mayor of a city at the same time. I'm not saying this right now... I'm not doing it anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I could easily change the board. But in times of heavy centralization, it really isn't bad when a constituency speaker could be used to take advantage of certain problems and needs... and the needs of decentralisation indicate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So as long as we have such legal solutions, then we need to separate a legal solution that is no wonder, seventh or eighth of the world's wonder and behavior of some people who may not possibly welcome each time. But let's leave it to them, because nobody here says we have to sit here. Here we are, 152, mostly 60 people, 70 people, and not them, the rest is not all mayors, and we're just missing them, and now we're mostly focusing on some representatives of mayors who aren't the most visible. So, my colleague Markovanovic, I'd like to ask you just a little more discretion just according to that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65702	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65703	Well, here's my colleague's fix. I didn't say they were laughing at them, I said clapping, and that's a big difference. ... Yeah, it's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Secondly, I have to say here on behalf of the people who aren't even here, here I can say that many of them are actually at their jobs, we have a lot of university professors, we have a surgeon, so people who are really doing another job. As good as it is or not, I can't say it. But that the mayors at least show up here, and often when voting their vote, they should say something, too, that's certainly true. Let's see, it would be good to keep statistics somewhere, I say some come only exceptionally here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65704	And respected representative Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65705	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the style I see that almost all my colleagues are being tortured by the arrival of the mayor's representative or the mayor of the municipalities. I would, however, miss it as is the law of my colleague Markovanovic, let the parties decide whether their people will be able to behave in all the duties and mayors of the big cities and MPs, and I will do it again in this style. That's exactly why Mr. Vivodić lost his mandate. Not for buying a mandate, not for the truth. He was not nearly ever in the headship, nor were the people satisfied with the conduct of his duties, so two of his councilmen voted in his mistrust. So much for the truth of counterpart Markovanovic and so much for whether it is possible for the big city to be both a representative and a mayor and many other functions, large parties to think about it. That's why it's good that it's left to the party to decide if one man can have 10 functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65706	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65707	Well, there's a colleague who said it right, and I think she needs to patent it. In the chieftainship to say that you're in the Parliament, in the House that you're in the headship and I think it might work, we've seen it from the example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65708	But sometimes it gets caught up in it. He says he's there now, and he's not there. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65709	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. So one of the fundamental illogicalities in the Croatian system of local self-government stems from the fact that the proportionate electoral system applicable to parliamentary elections is applied in the smallest units of local self-government and even in the local self-government elections. The situation that we will eventually get by passing this law if we stay for one longer time or if it remains without the new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government would significantly limit the role of a representative body, but would also complicate the role of the elected, directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor. I made a little effort, so I went to see how it was regulated in certain countries of Europe, and I can say that the electoral legislation in Europe is different in this respect to the extent that in certain regions within one country they are taking place in different ways, and when it comes to the majority in which directly elected mayors or mayors of certain smaller municipalities are elected, so we come to the point that even the question that somewhere it is chosen by an absolute and somewhere relative majority. So you have an example of Austria where they choose both directly and indirectly. For example, direct elections are held in Burgeland, Kerten and Tyrol, and in other countries the Austrian federal elections are held as special elections. In Bulgaria, they are direct, and an absolute majority is needed. In Cyprus, a relative majority is needed directly and is needed. In France, an indirect and absolute majority is needed. In Germany, a direct majority is needed. Now not to count, so the differences are from state to country but even within certain countries I say certain regions have different regulations. What is quite clear as to whether the mayor's direct or indirect elections, the mayor and the mayor are the fact that the advantage of direct elections is quite clear. Citizens know in advance exactly who might be the holder of the executive authority at local and regional level and are themselves committed to the person and programme closest to them. This is in terms of the principle of subsidiarity on which the European Union is based as one of the principles, and belonging to which it is one of the Croatian priorities. What also directs us to the direct selection of executives in local and regional self-government. Because it is logical not to choose and judge the judged political option according to the macroeconomic policy that a party offers either according to foreign policy priorities or according to defence policy. The choice of mayors, mayors and mayors in a direct manner will lead to a change in the focus of the election campaign, affecting its dezideology and ultimately contribute to selecting or selecting people who have concrete plans for the development of local units. It is also certain that such a direct choice will also affect its independence over the centres of political power. I certainly belong to those who are safe and who advocate the thesis that this change in the choice of executives in the Croatian municipal system requires and is likely to be an incentive for one thorough reform and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, but also the Law on Elections for Local Self-Government Units, which will say that I advocate finally and after this adoption of the law if it will go only in the second reading, if it will possibly go into third reading that it may be done parallelly with it and together these laws to agree and that we get common electoral legislation for this part of the segment of life that is particularly sensitive and that we all swear in such discussions that we are precisely for such access to electoral legislation. Because imagine the situation if there were to remain such a law that would now be passed, and if these laws were to remain in force so far on the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, it would become pointless for the mayor, mayor or mayor to be elected directly by the people, and his associate team, which, according to current legislation, would be elected by the representative body. Of course, one who would have been elected in a direct manner should be independent of the political will of the representative body. The relationship between the elected head of the local authorities and the representative body must rest in a position so that the Executive Officer cannot disband the representative body, and neither the representative body may vote non-confidential to the Executive Officer. At least not in any case, and at any rate, whenever he remembers it. In addition, it is necessary to clearly define the competences of both and others, which makes sense that the Executive Officer must be given the consent of the Budgetary Authority, and in addition to the budgetary constraints and restrictions that can be laid down by the Statute and other general acts whose adoption is in the power of municipal, urban and county parliaments, the representative body should in no way affect the mandate of the directly elected executive holder. The choice of the mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors alone cannot be guaranteed and it is not a guarantee of achieving expected political results, and the introduction of changes in the form of their direct election into the existing municipal system without their full adaptation could lead to dangerous political problems and unexpected effects. Perhaps you should also see the possibility for local communities to be able to apply that system that they consider most appropriate. For what? In fact, the different logic of the municipality’s organization is less than 3,000 inhabitants and one organization of large systems such as large cities. This is not unknown to European legislation. That is why I said that even within certain regions, individual options are different as regards how the mayors, mayors and mayors, or the president of these earthly congregations, or earthly heads in Austria or Germany, are. It is quite certain that direct elections do not in themselves guarantee high democracy and that such a transition requires serious preparation because otherwise the transition could cause great costs, but also unwanted and unexpected results. For this reason, considering this bill as one incentive or the first of steps towards a fundamental reform of the electoral legislation, I intend to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65710	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65711	In fact, I agree with you in 95% of what you said except in that segment where you said that the presidential body should not affect, clearly, directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors. I think you feel the danger there too if it wasn't possible, it wouldn't be good again. Then we could have one presidential system at the local level. Therefore, there must be a mechanism, but I completely agree with you that we should talk openly here about the dangers that threaten in one case or another. Here, colleagues talked about the simulation and what the simulation would bring to the benefit of one side, and the damage to the other party. There's been a bit of a joke. However, colleagues and colleagues, all political parties will have damage under this Law. That's too bad, which is good, 'cause it'll go the way it does to the Czech Republic. In no city or municipality of less than 50,000 inhabitants, no party has pushed its own man through. No one. It was exclusively by people who were recognizable in those environments, who did something useful, and the citizens had trust in them, not in the parties. The parties passed in major cities where it was important to organise. So this should certainly be discussed as potential, clear, dangers, but certainly let's not obstruct the possibility of a representative body, which means that the political parties must nevertheless have an impact, regardless of what I think or you think, the democratic procedure requires it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65712	That the parties will pass as barefoot. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65713	It's quite clear that you may have misunderstood me. I didn't think that the representative body in any way could have, but it can't be the one that's going to happen today because maybe the elected mayor and the head of any other political option, about who has most in that representative body, remembers, uh, this morning, I don't like him anymore or I resented him, and now we're going to launch in any way a question of his recall. Because it is the danger that arises here and which should be well considered and well seen how and how to resolve it. Because look, in most of these countries that I've tried to list, there is a connection between these two choices in the sense that the chief and the council were elected either at the same time, but on different ballots. In Italy, the Council and the Chief of Staff were elected through a single voting procedure and it should be remembered that, in this and such case, the representation of the parties in the Council depends in general on the decision of the voter, who will then be elected by the Chief. But in systems where the chief and council were elected to different, the mayor or mayor was elected in direct elections. It may occur that the chief does not belong to that party or to a coalition that has the majority in the council and that may lead to tension. I was going to say in that way that it can't affect the representative's body on her, on the impeachment of that mayor and chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65714	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute club debate. HSP Club, Honorable Representative Miroslav Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65715	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In the name of the HSP Club, I will actually relate to this last debate, so I will say a few actually reviews of the HSP Club on the proposal of this Law as appropriate in the final 5 minutes. A few times in this assembly talk about this Law heard about a question or a prelude to which this Law corresponds, and to whom this Law does not correspond. So it's really political hypocrisy at all to think about adopting or not passing any law, any law, starting from the starting point to which it suits, and to whom it doesn't suit. That's why I'm going to say on behalf of the HSP Club, HSP this law fits, but it opposes the adoption of this law because it is bad for Croatian citizens. And now I'm gonna say why we think he's bad. Because the adoption of this Law and the fact that this Law is put into the procedure is an eclectic example of misinformed public opinion on what will be obtained by such a law. Indeed, there is a propaganda about how their will will be more evident if they directly choose the executive power at the level of local self-government. Also, at the same time, it is raising different populist political leaders in Croatia especially at local level, at local level of local self-government, and the evidence of this is actually very simple. The evidence comes all the way from the explanation, so I'd say even from some of the debates in the Parliament. The first is the premise that many citizens said they wanted, and that's what the citizens want. We are convinced at the HSP Club that after a serious public debate that would bring out all these arguments which some of them have brought out in this parliamentary debate, but unfortunately they will not reach the public in this form so that the public could actually use it as a kind of public debate, so that after a public debate citizens might still want a direct choice of executive authority at local level, but that they would certainly not want it to actually be implemented under this or this law. In fact, this law gives and proposes solutions to the political system of Croatia and the constitutional order of Croatia to some solutions that are actually partly taken over from some different political systems. It is therefore impossible to transplant one implant from another political system simply into Croatia and say that it is good. That's what you saw from this debate. Namely, all such crosses are infertile, or sterile by biological law, so this law will also be if implemented in our political legal system in this way. Secondly, the second proof is certainly so it would be something like saying that we want to install a propeller on the car because then the car will go much faster and much better. It's true, though, when it comes to the plane, but it's not a safe solution for the car. Another evidence is the inconclusiveness and superficiality of the solution proposed by this law, many of which spoke about the election, the recall, the permanent elections in Croatia, so that Croatia will actually come to an uninterrupted or permanent vote during the four annual mandates. The third is true, the third evidence is for all of what many have been saying different offenses to this law. But Mr. Palarić, indeed, with one for me, has, personally, almost annoying stoic stillness, silenced all these objections and all these suggestions that we've been talking about here, because, of course, the conclusion is this law that we're making anyway, if we bring it, it'll only be applied in three years, and in three years, whoever lives, who dies. And finally let me just do this. What was particularly startling to me was that many MPs, even from the ruling majority, made a series of remarks, as a colleague has done now before the end. But then the conclusion of all these discussions, regardless of the content of the objections that were made, was like this. But gentlemen, regardless or precisely because it's raining, we're going to claim that the roads are dry. So, I have a whole series of objections to this law, but that's why I'm voting for it. HSP won't vote for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65716	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65717	Well, colleague Rožić, it's incorrect because we from the SDP Club have just advocated and asked for a third reading of this law because we are aware of all the shortcomings, especially us who play chess as some colleagues have said. It's not enough three moves. A good chess player and 20 moves ahead of time. But obviously, some on the other side, so from the government bench, it's not too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65718	Okay, here we go. You got it. It's okay. The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65719	Dear Mr. President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. HSLS will just vote for this bill and it's too bad it didn't happen much sooner. This story lasts if not there since the 1990s, but very intensely since 3 January 2000. But unfortunately, we have missed some opportunities to really go to a more radical reform of local self-government. But then again, the people are smart, so they say better than ever, and I don't think that they should hesitate and that it would actually be very good to know what rules that will be held in 2009 in the third week of May. Now some people are calling on that public, and we can see that it's never quite as simple as it seems to us at first sight. Apparently 75% of our public is for a radical reform of local self-government, which between the inner suburbs and the direct selection of mayors and mayors and mayors. And then again we hear it's a poorly informed public and a little bit of it reminds me of that Brecht thing when we can't change power, then it's good to change our own people, because obviously that own people can't follow all the genius of its power. I don't think we're too brilliant and sometimes that public should be listened to, because let's be honest with ourselves, that last June when in 2005, when we were formed, the town council, the municipal councils, elected heads, the county that we weren't really great and that it was really a month of our great shame that showed that we were really able to make all the opportunities, the bad opportunities that politics provides for us to really make such good use of them. And it's no wonder that in these elections somewhere around 20 percent of the citizens went out because they lost all confidence that politics, the political system, such as no legal solutions, but what we're capable of doing out of it really made political prostitution, protection democracy and everything that goes along with it and all those stores that we've witnessed and which we also approach selectively, and then one we see, the other we don't see. Where we fit then that's how people agreed. Where we fit, then we roar from these booths, in interviews we really show that our worse face. Of course, if that's what citizens are looking for, then it's not them who determine what rules will be made. This is then left to the profession and it is precisely that those solutions that would lead to certain important political changes, which would improve the image of politicians in the public, are then left to do so by the profession. Is that what the profession has done all the way to the end? It also seems to me that the Government should not decide on the resolution of directly elected commissioners, but it, the mayor and mayor, should, in particular, develop supervision of the legality and constitutionality of their work, as well as sanctions for the violation of the same constitutionality and legality, and should separate this from political responsibility. It's actually the key to the problem. Since recalling what should be an expression of a certain political responsibility there are now several variants and I think it really is here during the last Friday and here today, there has been a lot of hearing between them and the wise proposals that some way predict that, but the possibility of recalling, but also very important to say this impeachment should not really be an expression of our imagination again, and that this really happens at every council session, or assembly. So also this representative body should somehow condition their behaviour, their behaviour and the sanctioning of such behaviours that will actually be a mockery of politics. And also, I see it's already red, it's a big question of what it means to directly select the deputy chiefs, the European system and the direct selection of presidents of the Republic don't know this institute, and I'm afraid that it should give up because it just seems to me that a whole series of new unnecessary misunderstandings have been caused, but here's to say that HSLS will, in addition to all that, because it's the vox popula vox dei vote for this law because ultimately it's the way to solve many of our crisis situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65720	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65721	Well, I have to fix a respected colleague, Kramarić. It is my syntagma that the public is misinformed about this Law, and not about the principle, could associate it with something other than the change of the people. So I just want to make it right because he obviously understood it and misinterpreted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65722	PGS club, SBH, MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me say and repeat some things very briefly at the end of the debate on this important law in our opinion on behalf of the regional party club, some of the reasons why we will not support this Law, but we will in principle support the need to elect the mayors, mayors and mayors directly remain abstained from the public impression that we are against direct elections. However, we feel that this Law is not good enough for what we need today. Given how many years the public, as well as the political public and parties are committed to require a direct choice in Croatia, the law is not good enough. In the debate, MP Leko said the law leads with some solutions backwards. We wouldn't go so far as to go into analysis, but it seems to us that it's not pulling forward, it's not pulling forward and it's imprecise enough that we don't think it should be supported. First of all, we believe that the question of the choice of the representative body as well as the authority of the representative body in the municipality, city or county is what is not well enough solved. We think the question is how the representative body will monitor and control the executive authority is open and that this is why it really doesn't need to be supported. Of course, what has been presented as a style figure in the debate, and this is the question of whether after one such approach will at all be representative authorities, we hold a figure of speech because we probably won't go that far backwards, but the fact is that the question is also open. We believe that further in terms of power, what is very open and what needs to be addressed in the package when the issue of power of representative and executive authorities is resolved and that this should be accurately prescribed as well as the question of the exchangeability of all elected, so from the elected mayor, mayor and mayor further. We think that in local self-government if things are dealt with in the future, there will be more than likely to be riots, and there is enough already and therefore we think that it is true that yet in a certain way it is normative optimism and that we are going to solve something because of what the political public wants to solve, and we are going to open up a whole series of problems with it. We tend to the promoters to do the third reading, but the third reading in the package with amendments and additions to the Law on local self-government, amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies. In this way, minimum conditions would be created to create something integrated that would improve the situation in local self-government from choice to functioning. This is how it seems to me that we will in principle address the issue of choice, and that we will leave the functioning of the local self-government for that 10 years, the promised procedures for reforming the system of local self-government that is being promised on the continuum. I talk about local self-government every time I talk about it. Six or seven times over different laws, we always stay that reserve, we're dealing with temporary segments that are related to local self-government, but you know that's because we're going to go into an entire reform system within six or eight months. We never get into this and we have no indication of it and we think that this proposal is the same at that level and therefore the one that will open more problems and we will not support it, we will remain abstentioned, and we ask the promoter to take this seriously and report to the finally very seriously the Government that there are plenty of proposals not to be carried out by the free majority, but to accept proposals to reconsider everything once more, to try to extend it to at least the Law on Local Self-Government and to the Law on the Selection of Representatives' Body Members and therefore to postpone and implement the third reading together with amendments and additions to other laws that would be necessary and what would talk about seriousness, the desire to resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65724	Thank you very much. A colleague, Ivanish, needs 77 votes for this law. A simple majority isn't enough. Final Review State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office Mr Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65725	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! No matter how critical we talk about local self-government in Croatia, however, local self-government is a successful Croatian state project and nothing can be compared with municipalities before the establishment of a democratic system. We also heard during the debate about this law that everything was great at the time, how great was the jurisdiction, the great means, but there was no link that was important to democracy, and that was freedom of choice. There was no free choice, there was no multi-party and it is not possible to compromise the local self-government system in Croatia now with the one in the previous system. But there is no perfection, there is no end to improving that system. Therefore, in this term, everything we have done has been done in order for local self-government to develop and we believe that this law will also contribute on the one hand to raising the level of awareness of citizens in the elections to decide with their vote on the selection of leaders at local level, because even now the list holders have partially and personalised pre-election campaigns and citizens have been about to know what the composition of executive bodies will be, but now by adopting this law it will be unequivocally clear. One of the advantages of the adoption of this law is that it is adopted in regular procedure through two readings and it is sufficiently early from its application so that all the consequences of these products can be seen, removed and adapted to the entire system and the direct selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors. We have abandoned the practice that electoral legislation is changing right before the elections and I think it is good and that this comprehensive debate is also a step forward because we do not want to impose solutions. We have discussed the legislative proposals with those concerned, and this is with the community of the county and the alliance of cities and municipalities, and we have not discussed them in a way that holds monologues and convinces each other, but that through the debate we will find the best solutions that will come to this law or direct choice model, preferably through the consent of all political factors in the country. Here, and on the trail of these discussions, the government has submitted an amendment that gives up this minimum opportunity to resolve mayors, municipal mayors when they meet the law of the envisaged assumptions. So is it possible for someone to be mayor without living in that city? Is it possible for him to be mayor in prison? Is it possible that he's the mayor of someone who's taken away his business ability? But from that government gives up, it does not want to impose solutions, and this is a step further in giving up the responsibility of local self-government, because I remind you that today the Government has the right to disband the representative body and decide on the termination of the term of office of the executive bodies of mayors and chieftains. It is very reluctant to do so, it does so when it has to, when legal assumptions have been fulfilled and so far all the lawsuits brought against the government's decision have been rejected as evidence that the government has acted according to the law. However, we want possible conflicts between the representative body and the mayor to be resolved by those who chose them, and that will be voters in that unit of local self-government and regional self-government. We listened carefully to today's debate, we received amendments, we also received an initiative to discuss the law in the third reading. We will inform the government of everything and the government will manifest itself when put to the vote. Thank you very much to all those who have supported the law, those who have sought to correct the law and those who have openly expressed their opinions and disagree with the amendments in their own way and in their vision, thanks also to their contribution to the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65726	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll do it on Friday. ... Depending, there are various types of votes on the final draft law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There are procedural votes and votes on the metrics. Final proposal of the Law on the election of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The vote on the Final Proposal for the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb will be postponed and will be held at the same time as the vote on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government." So, when this law that has come on amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, where the relationship between the representative body and the executive authority is regulated, the two shall come and meet. Please vote. The result? With 91 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached. We have another conclusion, which is the Club of Representatives of the HSS, which reads: "The vote on the final draft of the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb will be postponed and will be held at the same time as the vote on a package of laws that will regulate the system of functioning of local and regional self-government." Okay, now we have to vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 27 for, 6 abstentions and 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority of this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65729	It's unacceptable. We believe that the term of office should take four years, not five years, as proposed by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65730	Representative Zvonimir Mršić?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65731	So since there is a complete change in the system in the mayors' and mayors' elections and that we have experience in Croatia that people elected directly have a term of 5 years, and even more, we believe that because of the economics and rationality, it would be extremely important to choose the mayors directly for 5 years. Because they draw legitimacy directly from the will of the citizens. I demand that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65732	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. [[Subject: And MPs 7.]] He didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd representative of Dragutin Lesar?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65733	It's not accepted by this amendment. He wants to extend his pre-election promotion. We consider 30 days minimum for the election process.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65734	Representative Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65735	Mr. Secretary of State, I consider it enough to be 30. I think it should be 45. But you didn't make any arguments why do you think that? And I have to say it's about one bill that's been in the process for a long time. The law of good intentions with bad solutions. Try to fix the law and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65736	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3 is the Government, becoming an integral part of the Law. 4. also Government is an integral part of the Law. 5. The HSU counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65737	It's unacceptable. This amendment seeks to address the situation in case the election year is held. So we know that the elections will be held every 3rd week in May of the election year. Local. So in that year, if the mayor's term should cease, for example, he dies or moves or loses his business ability under the Bill of Law, his deputy, who was elected together with him, and no, we do not accept that then be appointed a government commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65738	Mr. Secretary of State, we are still in the position that what we have proposed is a better solution, so we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65739	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth representative of Dragutin Lesar?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65740	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65741	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Seven of Dragutin Lesar's MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65742	It's unacceptable. This amendment aims to prescribe as an incompatible function with the mayor and municipal chief of staff the duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The government holds that, leaves the decision to every political party, not to prescribe it as an incompatible duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65743	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65744	Mr. Secretary of State in an attempt to be consistent and have the same relationship with all local officials this argument that you have made on behalf of the Government certainly does not hold water because under the current Law mayors cannot be parliamentary representatives, mayors and mayors of the municipalities can. This amendment of mine is about all local and regional self-government in the same position. The more what we have now, the less the solution... the speaker has been shut down. And this is about the topic that the Croatian People's Party has been pushing in this House for 8 years and you're forcing us into the situation that I suggest to my colleagues in the Club that I do not support this Law more than you think you have arguments. And, of course, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65745	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 8. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65746	It's not accepted from the same, with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65747	HSS? He's pulling. 9th also of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65748	Also because it talks about the mandate of MPs who should be put on hold.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65749	Please. HSS Club, Amendment 9. ... Retracted. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ten. Government becomes an integral part of the law. 11. The HSU counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65750	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65751	It becomes an integral part of the Law. The 12th representative of Zvonimir Mršić?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65752	We do not accept because we have accepted the amendment to the same article of the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65753	He's a colleague of Mršić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65754	Retracted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65755	The 13th representative of Dragutin Lesar?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65756	We do not accept for the same reasons because we have accepted the amendment of the HSU's representative on the necessary signature for the candidacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65757	My colleague Lesar?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65758	Did you doubt that I would ask for a vote because the amendments are not the same at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65759	Okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th Zvonimir Mršić?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65760	We don't accept. This amendment envisions a reduction of electoral silence only on the day of the elections, and has already become a Croatian standard that electoral silence is the day before the elections are held and ceases at the time of the vote. So even after the polls are closed, there can be an assessment of the results and comment on the elections. So we stay with the government's solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65761	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65762	But there is a Croatian satandard that violates electoral silence and that we have no sanctions. So if you have something that's prescribed. If it breaks and you don't have sanctions, I don't think there's any reason that Saturday before the election, there's still a pre-election campaign. I don't think that's going to violate the regularity of the election and we're not going to get into a position so that those who break it don't get punished for it. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65763	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15. Also Zvlamir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65764	We accept this amendment, Mr. President. But I would also refer to the claim of a respected representative if there were no sanctions. There are sanctions for breach of electoral silence in Article 93. We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65765	You accept. Okay. It becomes an integral part of the law. 16th also representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65766	We do not accept because it wants to exclude almost all serious legal persons, companies in co-financing campaigns. We have the Public Procurement Act. We have a system for ensuring the legality of public procurement. And we therefore believe that this is a sufficient mechanism to, in the fight against corruption at local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65767	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65768	But it is precisely the financing of election campaigns by political parties from companies that have small or large contracts with the state, i.e. local self-government and are the source of corruption. Because especially today, when the rule of law does not work enough, it comes to doing business only to finance someone’s campaign afterwards. We've had examples like this. Unfortunately, we will also have them in this election campaign now for parliamentary elections. I think you should really say the one who benefits from a direct conclusion of a business with the state cannot finance the campaign of the one who will then assign it to him. I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65769	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65770	I accept but only partially and this is the first indent I will read for clarity. "Article 33, paragraphs 1 and 2 behind the words "candidates" add the words "and the deputy candidates". We do not accept the rest of the amendment because it is settled by the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65771	Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65772	Well, I'm glad you accept the part. However, the bottom line is that those who break the rule to submit a report cannot receive compensation for financing their pre-election campaign. So you're saying here, you're putting on one obligation again that we don't have a sanction for. There's a very specific sanction here. So the Law on political parties does not discuss independent candidates and candidates for direct elections. It is therefore essential that those who do not submit the report will not be able to obtain funding from the city budget or municipal budget for this. And allow me, in the end, another general remark. So the SDP is to be directly elected by the mayors, mayors and mayors. Unfortunately, however, we feel that this law does not resolve this issue, and unfortunately we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65773	What about this part of the amendment that you do not accept, which the government does not accept? Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65774	We're looking for him, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65775	About this second part. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18 representatives of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65776	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65777	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 19th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65778	We don't accept. The amendment envisions a solution to the situation that, in the second round, one of the two candidates dies, should then be included in the third-in-command election match, according to the amendment. We believe that because of the flow, because of the short deadlines, the government's solution should remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65779	Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I said, I repeat, this is about a bill of good intentions and bad solutions. Although my colleagues and colleagues at the club listen less and less, I will still suggest that in the vote they support this bill with promises to the Croatian public that in three months it will be a brilliant law when we have to fix it. But Mr. Secretary of State, you have accepted amendment number six, my amendment number six. Now I've seen that he's made a mistake. In addition to the municipal chiefs, the mayor and mayor were to be written. It's just that someone who's been cheating turned out to be mayors and mayors. And you accepted them only as mayors of the municipalities. It just proves how carefully you've read the amendments you've accepted. So please fill in the mayors and mayors for the accepted amendment because it really came out of the transcript. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65781	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20 representatives of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65782	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65783	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 21st representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65784	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65785	It becomes an integral part of the law. 22nd representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65786	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65787	It becomes an integral part of the law. 23rd representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65788	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65789	It becomes an integral part of the law. 24th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65790	We do not accept this amendment because it has already been resolved by other provisions of the law and the instructions of the State Election Commission. So to vote, so it's just technical, but it's written in other articles that no one can come... Because of the presidential bell, the speaker is not understood./... that the president of the election committee is authorized to ask for police assistance. So I don't know what that would do here. That's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65791	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65792	... Similar provisions exist in other laws, in presidential elections, parliamentary elections, for the election of representative bodies. [[Specially enabled.]] But this is a law that regulates a kind of election and cannot be chosen for the president of the state to apply to the mayor's election. If this provision does not exist in the law, it shall not apply under other laws. And the instructions of the State Election Commission, let us let him do his part of the work, but within what we have decreed for him. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65793	Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 25th Representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65794	We do not accept because we hold that such a model of the distribution of ballots could lead to a breach of vote's secrecy because someone can mark the ballots in their own way and then know how he arranged them and know who he voted for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65795	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65796	Mr. Secretary of State, my amendment is contrary to making it impossible for anyone on the election board to know the number of serial ballot voters who took it. That's why they're proposed to be set up differently than they are now. So the intention was to prevent that use, not to disable it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65797	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 26th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65798	We accept, though... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65799	You take it well, there's no buts. It becomes an integral part of the law. 27, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65800	We do not accept it because it is the usual voting procedure and the election committees know how a person will vote already.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65801	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65802	I could accept your argument, Mr. Secretary of State, that you told me where this usual practice came from in Croatia if not from the law, right? I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65803	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65804	We do not accept it because it is an additional administration that would include the county election commissions, giving them additional jobs. We believe that the government's proposal to determine and publish the results is precise enough and that it can quickly lead to results, the result will be published.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65805	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65806	Mr. Secretary of State, is the money that the county election committee gets for a week's work, but you're afraid this will be too hard to do, too. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65807	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65808	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65809	It becomes an integral part of the law. As long as you've accepted his amendment, half the law. 30, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65810	We don't accept. Penalties are well balanced and are also introduced to violate electoral silence. We don't think they should be further extended at least at this stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65811	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65812	I apologize to you for making so many amendments to this bad law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65813	Ten is accepted on record. 10 of your amendments have been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65814	What if two more months were up for our term, I guess at least 50% would have been accepted. But this provision is in three months, I assure you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65815	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31, Legislative Committee. It becomes an integral part of the law. 32, same board. 33, representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65816	We do not accept because the Legislative Committee has given an amendment to the same article that has become an integral part of the law, it has been adopted. Therefore, we cannot accept the amendment of Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65817	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65818	Mr. Secretary of State about what law comes into force and what provision it must be we have led in this House for four years. I am sorry that colleagues of Josipovic are not present in the Parliament to comment on such a provision. A law that has no definition of precise and clear entry into force as I have suggested, is not in line with this practice of this Assembly, and we have always disputed about it. In order to implement the elections in accordance with the law, this law must enter into force on 1.1.2009. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-18-0.u65819	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am now voting on the final draft of the law, 77 needs to pass the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 116 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the law was passed in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. - Final proposal of the Law on protection against ionising radiation and security of the source of ionizing radiation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 350 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, work, social policy and health, spatial planning and environmental protection and European integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
