ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57016	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session of the debate on - Annual Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency (HAMAG) for 2004. Proposer representative Tomislav Kovacevic, President of the Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57017	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The annual report by HAMAG for 2004 on the formal side was correctly made. However, data that are given to read from the inside indicate a huge passiveity in the work. In fact, it is only 10 guarantees issued throughout the year amounting to slightly more than 3 million kuna. There are a number of reasons for this bad business. I would say what I found and what I had to read from the documents that were available to me that it was actually a continuation of a passive trend in the Agency's business, given that only 9 guarantees were issued a year earlier. It is known that the Croatian small economy agency is a legal successor to the Croatian Guarantee Agency, which was shut down in 2002. In March 2002, namely, the Law on the Encouragement of Small and Medium Economy Development was adopted, which was founded by HAMAG. So, at the time, the Guarantee Agency was shut down, and the new unfortunately was not successfully registered within the time limit. So now, what happened? In that period of transformation, there was a huge stalemate. Namely, no new administration has been formed, no new board of directors has been formed and there has simply been a delay in work. The new guarantees could not be issued, there were even delays in paying off activated old guarantees, causing a huge revolution in banks. Also, entrepreneurs could not benefit from this agency, which was just established to encourage entrepreneurship itself. In short, there was a major confusion and a major delay in work, which was reflected in 2004 as well. In 2004, the Management Board adopted new 5 programmes that were tailored to entrepreneurs, and they were more consistent with market needs, so they became more attractive. A temporary administration has been formed that took some kind of initial steps. A programme on the development of small-scale consultants has been adopted. The agency has been moved from one location to another. The new space was arranged and a basis was created for further successful work by the Agency. And as for the Agency's work in 2004 except for what I initially mentioned, the passivity and issuance of only 10 guarantees, I would still say that the 2004 income and expenditure account showed a positive financial result. The balance sheet also showed an increase in the value of the Agency's assets compared to 2003. The Agency's obligations, the agency's potential commitments at the end of the year, amounted to 186 million kuna. Here, I would, I wouldn't be long. I would actually briefly like this, in short I tried to give you a hint of why the Agency issued so little guarantee in 2004. Today is something else, we are, you can see it in our shorter report. In 2005, we issued 86 guarantees worth almost 60 million kuna. So there was a positive shift, which allowed over 100 million kunas to be placed in the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57018	Thank you. Reporters of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? President, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57019	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the Agency, the esteemed MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 39th session held on 31 January 2006 discussed the Annual Report on the Business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency HAMAG for 2004, which was in accordance with the provisions of Article 15 of the Croatian Parliament. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 21.7.2013, p. 1). The Statute of the Croatian Small Economy Agency submitted by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy Act of 24 November 2005. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this Report as a parent working body. The opening presentation was submitted by a representative of the applicant. In the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on this Report began with a comment on the absence of a report from the Management Board, on how many meetings were held, and that item was the agenda, and which points were to be discussed on the Committee. In the course of the debate, the Ministry's representative and the president of the HAMAG administration stressed that the past period of HAMAAG recorded poor results due to the lack of projects that were a prerequisite for its effective work. They also pointed out that the tripartite contract of HAMAG, a business bank of the county, is not satisfactorily operationalised in practice because of bank requirements to include the property of the borrower as a guarantee. In light of the above problems in the State budget for 2006, 6 million kunas were granted for regional and... programmes that should be implemented quickly, in order to co-finance the counties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A new project has also been designed, the local development projects for which the guarantee amount should be only 30% higher than the amount of the loan granted. In the course of further discussion, it was not commercial for the company to start working to be the first months in plus, which was one of the banking conditions for obtaining credit. Starting with the fact that HAMAG is a state agency, it is incomprehensible that some business banks did not want to accept its guarantee. The question has been asked whether HAMAG intends to introduce incentives for the transfer of new technologies to entrepreneurs, to which a confirmed response has been obtained, in the form of a new technology project. The debate accepted the proposal by which the Management Board of HAMAG is obliged to submit a report on its work to all members of this Committee before this debate on this agenda item. I can say it's done. The majority of the board members agreed with the above opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as with the replies of the Ministry and the following five vote committee with four votes abstentions decided to submit the following decision to the Croatian Parliament for the year 2004 the annual report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency HAMAG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57020	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57021	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Board, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me begin by saying that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this 2004 HAMAG Report. Just a reminder is a legal follower when we talk about HAMAG, the Croatian Guarantee Agency established by the Small Economy Development Act 2002 to encourage the development of this sector. But this 2004 report also shows us some of the things that we, as HDZ representatives, also have certain objections to this reporting period. Since we believe that this agency has a much wider scope, i.e. that it should encourage and establish small economy entities, invest in this sector, initiate improvement of business conditions, etc., and not exclusively deal with the issue of guarantees that are not its own and should not be its key role, and we have seen that in 2003 and 2004, this was the case for the entire activities of HAMG, but the results that were not exactly commendable since 9 guarantees were issued in 2003, in 2004 one even more means 10. Although the HAMAG and those programs that can be read here are visible from the existence of HAMAG itself as to the best loan insurance instrument that a small entrepreneur can imagine. Therefore, it is that HAMAG gives beginners, for example, a guarantee based solely on a high-quality business plan, at an amount of 80% of the principal loan up to 1 and a half million kuna, so the new entrepreneur remains only a small part of the loan insurance to his own guarantees, the number of guarantees issued, and the support provided by HAMAG and through HAMAG is very small and almost negligible in relation to the considerable interest among entrepreneurs. Through various other programmes, entrepreneurs can also receive guarantees from 40 to 70% of the principal that can amount to up to 5 million kuna, but even though everyone wants to avoid the mortgage has not been used enough and this shows us one other thing that we have to pay attention to and especially to which HAMAG should pay attention, and that is that such too few requests that could be asked here are only a question that arises because banks do not have confidence, business banks do not trust in a guarantee called the HAMAG guarantee are already looking for exclusive guarantees of the type of mortgage, guarantees of another type and that is where I think the key role of HAMAG is in the coming years of this, and we see according to some results from 2005, that it is precisely in this direction and that it is actually going in a certain way to go into agreements and presentations, talks with banks, but also in order to be agreed with the local authorities and to agree with them. We also believe that the Agency should provide us with perhaps only support to risk groups of entrepreneurs who can hardly reach fresh capital, such as. young entrepreneurs, innovators, etc., while the rest should be regulated by the market. This 2004 report will simply be accepted, we will take it to the knowledge, but first of all because, knowing some of the results from 2005, we think that this is the part of the job that HAMAG should and should exist and because of which it is actually established, because when we see that unlike this 2004 which we are now talking about and which reporting period this report refers to, in 2005, HAMAG has already issued more than 80 guarantees for business credits in business banks worth more than 100 million kuna and these amounts of credit have increased, and the guaranteed amounts have been reduced. In previous years, guarantees were covered on average up to 80% of loans, while in 2005, the average was below 60%. It is also visible from other indicators as regards the small economy that entrepreneurs are very interested in supporting any kind, so I think they will also be interested in supporting and guaranteeing the HAMAG ranks because when it is seen that 4 000 696 requests for grants were received during the past 2005 and that is a figure that is 12.1% higher than a year earlier which shows that for such support and programmes among entrepreneurs there is a significant interest. However, it is not the same in the whole of Croatia so that, generally speaking, most of the support provided by the state and by the ministry and thus the support sought and received from HAMAG for some territorial distribution was of the utmost interest in Osijek-Baranja, Zagrebačka, Split-Dalmatia, Varazdinska, Primorje-Gorski and Međimurje County from which the most demands came. And the minimum requirements came from Zadar, Virovitica-Podravska, Sibenik-Kninska, Lika-Senjska, Dubrovnik-Neretva and Požega-Slavon County. I think that especially in those counties where such a county is almost would say negligible or very little interest in obtaining support from different economies or through the Ministry of Economy, so also through HAMAG, it is necessary and lies the greatest responsibility on those units of local self-government that, in cooperation with the HAMAG, they best and closer show and present to entrepreneurs the benefits that can be obtained through certain support or guarantee from HAMAG. In order to be able to discuss quality reports in the coming years, I believe that we should commit HAMAG and other institutions that report to this Parliament to issue reports for the past year no later than one month after the end of the year so that the Assembly can respond in due time and, if necessary, add other measures to encourage a small economy. Because we are discussing today, we need to be honest, about a 2004 report when it was about 18 months after the end of 2004 and we do not really have anything else left but to take that report to the knowledge of what the Croatian Democratic Community Club is going to do. In the end, I am expressing hope that no one in this assembly is against encouraging entrepreneurship or against the institution that this is about. But we, too, at the HDZ Club, are convinced that its next reports will certainly be much more quality, more content and time-effective than the reports we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57022	Please, correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57023	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said that a small number of requests from local self-government units are due to a mistake in local self-government units. That's not true. This is the consequence of Hamag's unhappiness, and we saw that he had only 9 guarantees in 2003, 10 2004. HAMAG must be quick but not hamag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57024	Representatives' club IDS respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57025	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed representatives of HAMAG! Here is a report from HAMAG for 2004 and in today's time when timely quality information is an unconditional basis for making strategic or operational decisions, we keep it mildly inappropriate to consider a report on the work of a state body for 2004 only in February 2006. That's why we at the IDS Club will only take this report into consideration. In 2004 and at the time of this report, in Croatia, there were 309 thousand and 800 unemployed. Of which 129 thousand or 41.6% of men and unemployed women 180 thousand 847 or 58%. We could, of course, continue to dismember the rate of unemployment per school preparation, education, for years, but most importantly, unemployment per county. If we are to take care of the balanced development of the Republic of Croatia, HAMAG should also use these data as a guideline to direct guarantees, money and programmes. In addition to these initial deficiencies, the programme's effects in terms of later user checks are not shown anywhere in the report in order to determine the actual increase in jobs, increase in production or services, and in general to look at their business performance. The comments submitted by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development shall be held in mind that the number of guarantees issued during 2004 is too small to justify the existence of HAMAG at all. The justification that the cause is in inadequate programmes cannot be accepted but we believe that this is due to inadequate practice in implementation and especially in the promotion of the programmes themselves. The impression was given in the report that the Agency's activity was very closely focused on programmes for the area of particular interest, which should be balanced with other programmes in the following periods. The development of an institutional support system for small entrepreneurs is impossible without further development of the network of professional consultants. However, the report is based on what is well seen on page 12 that in 2004, out of the total estimated 150,000 kunas for these purposes, only 290 thousand 533 kunas have been spent and that this is not explained to us by any reason and why so little funds have actually been spent. We believe that the activities and education held by HAMAG representatives are insufficient because for the creation of a business climate in Croatia we will need much more energy and energy because Croatian business conditions are the worst throughout the transition Europe. And this is evident from the World Bank report where we are worst ranked among Eastern European countries. We have taken 118 places while the countries we like to compare with are much better standing. For example, Slovakia is in 37th place, Czech Republic 41st, Hungary 52nd, Poland 54th. These places refer to the time needed to issue permits for the launch of jobs. Okay, the situation may change now because of "Hurry HR", but we also got 43rd place in the category of realisation and respect for the contract, 135th place of investor protection, 131st place for getting business credit, 85th place for paying taxes, 109th place has a criterion of cross-border trade and criteria for hiring and firing workers. After these we can tell the frightening data that through all institutions, and I believe that HAMAG should not invent hot water but choose examples of those countries that have good business successes and learn from them everything that can be learned. And these are enough in the European Union. An example of 25 members of the European Union, even 11 of them, is on the list of 30 most business countries in the world. The first is Denmark in the eighth place, and the new members of the European Union with Baltica, Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia are also in excellent places. 15, 16 and 26. So the Nordic and Baltic countries are a kind of school example of the right measure of state intervention in the economy. That is why we in the IDS believe that education in the Far East is not necessary, for example, in Japan because overall looking at European countries were the most active in reforming their economies, which only proves that the expanded eurozone is currently the most pro-pulsive region that is now hitting the foundations of its future growth. And that we'll all agree should not be without Croatia. Our general assessment is that HAMAG has so far acted rather elitistly on the principle of "Who is approaching the fire is getting warmer" which needs to be changed by further development of the HAMAG office network. Greater contacts with support institutions on the ground and much greater promotional activity. As I have already said, IDS takes note of this report because it is now too late to accept it or not to accept it because we are now in 2006 which we can experience in some way that it is also disrespecting this House. It is not all fault at HAMAG because we have seen from this report that HAMAG sent a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in early April and that it took the Government of the Republic of Croatia six months to show this brief report. What if there were more than 100 pages? I hope you will accept all these comments and suggestions and that the 2005 report will soon come before this House and we will discuss it and only then will it really make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57026	Correction. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57027	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption about what my colleague has said is the main problem in the fact that Hamag is unrecognizable? The main problem is that we don't have our business banks. When we have a Croatian business bank, then everything will be easier to finance. And he'll be following Hamag. Foreign banks have no interest in monitoring HAMAG and our programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57028	HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57029	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the President of the Board, the Honorable Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, I believe one of those if not the most interesting solution or report on the work of the State Agency is back two years, perhaps even years. In a year, 21 employees worked for the report and managed to spend 8 and a half million kuna per year on the cold drive. However, it is interesting to see how they spent 8 and a half million kuna and it will also be interesting to see the active role of the Management Board in this same period and in this same process. So 21 employees, employees have issued 10 guarantees, which means each employee in two years issues one guarantee. Or half a guarantee per employee. Of course, this second activity in which they issue support was, "fully more successful" because they issued even one more support than they were employees of the Agency. However, when financial relations are also put into relationships, interesting data can be obtained. The guarantees were issued worth 3 million 125 thousand kuna, while at the same time 4 million kuna was spent on the salaries of employees and the material costs of these same employees. Better results have been reported with the support. We said one support more than the number of employees, and there was support of 237 thousand 716 kuna. And the cost of the phone and the living room in that same agency is 327 thousand kuna. So more for phones and journals than for support expected by craftsmen and companies in a small economy. It is not difficult to conclude, in fact, that the Agency was its own purpose in the reporting period because it failed to do what we did, not only in the Parliament but also in the Croatian public. However, 9 million kuna came for such a good job from the Croatian budget. And of course the government agrees, accepts that report. Apparently, some other clubs will accept it even if I personally and the HSS Club thinks we should do it differently this time. It is interesting that this agency has done most successfully when looking at the difference in income and expenditure. They managed to make extra revenue of 3 million 439 thousand kunas because they simply could not share it in support of other forms of monetary incentives that help entrepreneurs, and we know especially in the field of special state care especially in some areas of Croatian craftsmen and entrepreneurs cry out for assistance. But if those 20 people were doing a bad job, but they were still working on the board of directors? There's nothing in the report. That's why I asked for an additional report and you can see what he was doing. He met five times, one of which was a written statement at the board meeting. However, before they were found, they sent a message, existing programmes made by the former Administration and the former Croatian Small Economy Management Board are no good. We'll change those programs. Of course, banks wouldn't accept guarantees. If they have heard that applications are invalid and that applications will change. However, these programmes, which were not good and which slowed down the Agency's activities, were brought to the meeting of the Management Board only in 28.12.2004 when implementing acts for these guarantee programmes were actually considered and adopted. There, so much for the speed of work of the board of directors. However, what is absurd, in 28.6.2005, the same Management Board of the Croatian Small Economy Agency discussed amending the guarantee programmes because they were not good. He was discussing the change of his programs they had brought in. The Management Board discussed and nothing happened in the regional development project, especially in the sense that HAMAG has branches, if not in all counties at least in the regions. He also prepared a support programme for the Management Board, but never brought it in within two years. There have been two discussions about amending the Small Economy Encouragement Act. Of course, we've never heard of how these changes would go, let alone that it's come here before the Parliament over the past two years. Also, for two years programmes for the development of areas of special state concern are being adopted. However, for two years, there are also problems with the issue of guarantees. Finally, the Management Board itself acknowledges that. In 2005, 4 sessions were held, one of which was telephoned, so when we conclude these activities on employee work, and also on the work of the Management Board, it is obvious that it was not actually more quality. As much work as the results. When we ask ourselves who runs this Management Board, it is interesting to be led by the most competent persons in Croatia for a small economy. Economy Minister Branko Vukelic, Tajan Kesic-Cepic, State Secretary from the Ministry of Economy who deals with small entrepreneurship and Ivan Bracic, assistant minister for the small economy. But what's going on today? Open the website of the Ministry of Economy and what will you find? Nothing. You'll find information that the programmes for 2005 are over, and the new ones are gone, even if we're actually already in the 3rd month of this year. What will you hear from entrepreneurs who are interested? Well, you won't hear anything, because they don't have information, so they don't even have the power to move on. To be different, it can be better actually tells us this period during which the entire business of the Agency has been monitored, which has grown from the Croatian Border Agency where 3 million 324, 3 000 324 guarantees have been issued, and the value of guarantees issued by 619 million kuna for a small economy. In this way, about a billion and 100 million kuna are monitored by small companies as well. The potential of the Guarantee Agency is 500 million kuna. Of that, 314 million are still available. This guarantee fund should be used as soon as possible. It needs to be included in the development. But the problem is old, the problem is old. The programmes that have been adopted are still reluctant to be accepted in banks, and the programmes that should create investment money spending in the purchase of equipment in the construction of buildings and in the employment do not exist, or are too slow to be realised. It should immediately approach regional development, the establishment of a branch office for the Croatian Small Economy Agency and should also be devoted to other issues that have led to the establishment of the Agency. The Agency was established in one part because of guarantees, but mostly because of other forms of support that entrepreneurs need. He used to be an Infocenter, and the Infocenter had his branches in all the county. There, both a craftsman and any entrepreneur could get quality information about a program that could be consumed in any way to use the Agency, in which way to use support. It was serviced if it went towards HBOR or any other bank. For unknown reasons, however, this Infocenter no longer exists. And according to my knowledge on the day, several hundred entrepreneurs were using this Infocenter and, of course, the results were different. This agency should be a government service. It should monitor all sectors, not just the Ministry of Economy. Of course, there are also attractive programs that were previously from tourism. Now they don't mention each other. This agency should work particularly on the education of entrepreneurs in this process called approaching entry into the European Union through the Government service. In addition to the education of entrepreneurs, we need to educate those people who work with entrepreneurs in the state administration, in county administrations, municipalities and cities. That program's shut down. Several thousand people went through it in the period until 2004. Of course the effects are feeling, but now he's gone. And of course, this little economy agency should think about how to get involved in the HITRO project and how to use it as its service. This way, if the HAMAG is set up in the present way and if it deals only with guarantees and support, then we'll have the same reports as this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57030	Thank you. Proposer representative, Management President Tomislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57031	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. With most of your remarks, I would agree, because all that you pointed out just met me in July when I came to the head of the agency. I would now brief you once again for those who have not been or if I have not been clear enough, in short I will explain the problems that have led to the mistrust of banks, to the failure to establish a consultant network, etc. During the transformation period of the Croatian Guarantee Agency, hence the HG to HAMAG in 2002, there was a stalemate. It's simply because of the poor registration, or because of the non-registration of the new agency. The agency operated the truth for itself, simply couldn't issue guarantees, couldn't provide support, and even those guarantees that were activated, which came to payment, couldn't be paid. Of course, it caused a great revolution of banks and mistrust in a state institution and also, as I said in the introduction, caused a revolt of entrepreneurs themselves who could not benefit from it. Why did that happen? According to what I found in the records of the Supervisory Board meetings, so from 2002 and 2003, the then Department of Institutes responsible for HAMAG, the management president appointed the person who was the deputy minister, so the person who volunteered as chairman of the administration. I personally had the honour of meeting this lady and, unfortunately, I can only say that the ministry at the time simply volunteered to experience the agency, so she could therefore be expected to have this agency headed by a volunteer, with the best will to show some results. As for 2004, I also cited the introduction, a programme for the establishment of a consultant network was adopted. Today, at this point, we have 40 consultants for a small economy. This year we have a plan to do a different form of education and certification, so not only go to consultants for beginners but also to consultants specialists because my personal opinion, as well as the opinion of the board of directors, should, of course, help and existing good businesses because it will be able to generate of course the growth of new companies. As for the Hamag branch, HAMAG has one branch in Split and thank God there are no more. I'll explain why I said thank God. In order for HAMAG to be in its branches and its obligation to which it was established, it would have to have at least 10 people. So figure out that in each county there's only one branch, 10 people it's over 200 people. This way, HAMAG with this one branch or with a potential new branch, can provide the very function of an information point and we should pay someone for it. However, I reached an agreement with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and with the HUP that they through their branches, and you know that the Chamber of Commerce and economics have almost every city of their own branch, that they can provide complete information through these branches about the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency. So they very well-intentioned us to meet and today in any city in Croatia you come to the Association of craftsmen and ask for HAMAG you can get information about him. So that's where we solved the Hamag branch issue. There are no Hamag branches and unnecessary payments to the administration. The regional level is precisely the creation of guarantee guarantee schemes for which the Ministry of Economy predicted 6 million kunas for this year. The task force has been working on it since 11 months last year and I sincerely hope that before the summer season we will have registered regional guarantee schemes. In this year, an IDS colleague told us about a plan so that HAMAG shouldn't just issue guarantees to aim for it. The truth is, for now, it's the only activity with a network of consultants, but for this year, we have a plan to expand the activities of HAMAG because HAMAG with its 25 people today must satisfy the very basis for which it was founded. I'd still like to, if you'll excuse me, just a minute to get back to the beginning. In 2002 and 2003, when simply banks and entrepreneurs lost confidence in HAMAG, and HAMAG existed to myself, there was simply a negative fluctuation of employees. Those who were ambitious, who were quality, they simply left that ship, they found their place on the labour market. These others, unfortunately, did not. They welcomed me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57032	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57033	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect allegation that the president of the administration volunteered during the period 2003, as it is a reshuffle. For the first time in Croatia, the Small Economy Act was passed if you do not know it, so HAMAG was to be formed. But in that volunteering, when my assistant volunteered, the same number of guarantees was issued and seven times as much support as you in full power. Seven times as many times as I repeat, support and the same number of guarantees in volunteering, and you worked professionally and spent nine million kuna on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57034	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57035	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's to what fellow Pecek said, that what Mr Kovacevic said, that the Ministry of crafts founded a practically volunteer agency in 2000. That's not true, of course. The ministry of craft established a Croatian small economy agency with the right goals and the right results.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57036	HNS Club, Honorable Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57037	Thank you, Mr. President. How little entrepreneurship is important for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia is recognised in 2002 by the adoption of the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development and by the basis of this report. However, this report comes in February 2006 and refers to the 2004 period, but I would not like to waste my time and explain why it is because it is a chronic disease and we regularly receive reports that are at least a year late. The revenues of small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia account for 44% of the total economy, but this share in the European Union is more than 60%. Which says we still have plenty of room to develop that sector. That direction was also considered when the idea of helping small entrepreneurship by the state began to be realized by the establishment of HAMAG. The idea was for the Agency to establish its branches in each county and larger cities in order to open the space in which the entrepreneur should receive all the necessary information. The tasks and essence of HAMAG on paper seem very promising. So it serves to encourage and develop a small economy, to encourage investment, finance and guarantees, to approve grants and a number of other reliefs. Taking into account all these measures, looking at the side, little entrepreneurship should be at an extremely envious level, but there's always that "but". When it comes to economic projects of the RES, because if you look at the Report you will see 10 for the guarantees issued and 22 for approved support, and 49 of the total number of items received. According to these data, I do not see exactly where the amazing results are and a great incentive for the development of Croatian entrepreneurship which should be the backbone of the Croatian economy or at least what remains of it. One of the allegations in the Report is that in the expectation of new guarantee programmes in 2004 and banks and entrepreneurs rarely sought guarantees under the old programmes. Now we heard the explanation that it was because something had changed, and then the board of directors decided that those old programs would no longer be implemented and therefore both banks and entrepreneurs lost confidence in HAMAG. However, there is a question of what Hamag was doing at the time, but I'll talk about it later. With a very tense possibility, it might even pass if this government had since December 2003 with the assumption that it had completed its economic programmes, and by October 2004, it actually had no vision of the development of the economy in general, let alone small entrepreneurship that could not sell further to foreigners in order to fill the budget gaps to satisfy those promises it wrote on its guaranteed card. In May 2004, 40 government measures were presented, 11 of which include the publication of two magazines. Most of the measures were prescribed by the former ministry in the entrepreneurship-enhancing programme. The original idea of Minister Vukelic and his team is a social service project. Two questions are raised here. How much is it working to meet potential users with programs and, secondly, what kind of work was the Agency doing and is it for itself? If you asked the citizens of Croatia what HAMAG is and what it serves, the result would be very interesting and likely devastating. According to this Report, the Agency's staff are being educated, travelling to Ireland, Japan, consultations under the auspices of the prime minister and several others, various seminars and consultations, but there are no results other than spending taxpayers' budget money. It is interesting to note that in 2004, under the article of promotion and information in the HAMAG budget, a total of 30 thousand kuna was allocated. And that for national consultation on the small economy, and that should have helped the general public to find out that it might have the opportunity to develop its own craftsmanship and thus reduce the country's growing unemployment statistics. It is also interesting to note that, compared to last year, HAMAG's budget was reduced from 15 to 12 million kuna, although both CARDS and PHARE were included. And with this information, the government and the resolution ministry show how much it holds up to the development of entrepreneurship. Furthermore, the report states that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development which, note bene, has its incentive programmes and the Slatinska Banka has granted the most credit even though no other bank in the Report is mentioned. Now we heard an explanation that banks didn't believe in programmes and that even entrepreneurs didn't trust HAMAG and that's why there wasn't. The question arises when, how and in what way will the banks, as well as counterpart Pero, mention Kovacevic, that the banks are in the hands of foreigners and the question is how much they are in the interest of investing in this economy in the first place. And the question also arises whether banks believe in government programs. Perhaps the answer is in the fact that the ministry, with an unrecognizable minister, has nine assistants. The 2004 budget was over 25 billion kuna, and 28 billion kuna is scheduled for this year. During the 2 years of the term of office, no position of the ministry on important or any economic issues is remembered, as well as the question of the development of small entrepreneurship. The infrastructure to encourage and invest does not exist despite the existence of a resolute administration, and the development of the economic zone is only the flow of the pre-election campaign. Despite the funding of more than 25 billion kuna, the ministry did not seem to be able to make decisions in a series of very delicate issues that are key to the development and economic upturn of Croatia. A character and part of this ministry is being run back by Croatia. How much this government and the resolution ministry have a vision of Croatia's economic drive telling data on GDP growth. Those few who even assess the success of the entrepreneurship support model say the ministry has offered a complicated and unclear support distribution system. It has long been clear that this government has no vision of Croatia's economic development. Small entrepreneurship is one of the strongest links in this chain, and support for its development is insufficient and underdeveloped. The future of the Croatian economy is in fast and flexible small and medium-sized enterprises ready to adapt to market change. Croatia needs a ministry that also monitors changes in the market, not a trompe ministry that deals with nothing. So the HAMAG as it seems according to this report is a purpose to itself without real and quick help in the development of Croatian small entrepreneurship. The Croatian People's Party club, normally after all this time, accepts this report. And what if he doesn't? But with criticism that this agency really starts with education and real help or that it doesn't waste taxpayers' money in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57038	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57039	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Kapraljevic said an incorrect allegation, which is that HAMAG only on paper looks promising. This is the 2004 report that may have some accuracy. However, Mr Kovacevic exists, was appointed management president in 2005, and I hope this will become a promising reality in everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57040	Thank you. HSP club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57041	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. HAMAG's director. This Annual Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency, to translate this title HAMAG for the public who may be following us to find out what it is, so what HAMAG is really one I would say to the paradigm for even two Croatian sand towers. One is the Croatian entrepreneurship within the Croatian economic policy, and the other tower of sand is the legal obligation of various state agencies and directorates to submit such a report once a year, to sit here, to hold the fire of parliamentary representatives, to act as thunders and lightnings as a sort of thunderbolt of government, and after that, we will once again focus peacefully in the Croatian public on some of the more important topics of the type "Ludnica", a conflict in national clubs, such as the heart of the former minister sent to the Prime Minister, or let's say the sex life of our colleague Branimir Glavas. We're going to sort of push this deep into our subconscious somewhere and wait for a similar report next year. Unlike the other reports in which the Croatian Parliament discussed this and also in previous sessions which in principle contained too much non-essential data, this report of HAMAG differs by something. The difference is that it contains too little data. It is obvious, therefore, that HAMAG could not draw up a report like many others, inflating the importance of insignificant in its reports, because the support for the development of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, which is the main task of HAMAG, and HAMAG is as the main competent body in its report, is clearly and eloquently telling us parliamentary representatives to record nothing less or more honestly than their own and, on this aspect, commendably to record bad results because there are essentially no projects on which they would work, and that the co-operation of HAMAG with business banks and counties is far from satisfactory. This report, in this sense, paints actually one overall economic picture in the Republic of Croatia, and represents a focus in which all indifference and failure are drawn both by economic, banking, financial and any other policy. In fact, the Small Economy Development Encouragement Act was supposed to constitute a basic act to encourage the development of a small economy. Article 1 of that Law states, among other things, that it regulates the basics for the application of economic policy incentives, targeted development, restructuring and market adaptation to the small economy. Indeed, there is no need for me to explain or explain to the Croatian public on behalf of the HSP club what it is and to what extent it is done, because I think it is completely unnecessary. Article 2 provides that small economies represent entities that employ up to 250 workers, make an annual income of up to 60 million kunas, etc., etc. The law means almost all economic operators in Croatia, that such entities, therefore a small economy should be the basis of the Croatian economy, have been made countless times through the various strategies that we have discussed here, programmes, expert opinions, round tables, the public and most importantly through pre-election promises. Unfortunately, reading this report again, I remembered one graphite I saw in the pre-election period on the building of a building said, "I don't need anything, they promised me everything." Furthermore, Article 4 of that Law ambitiously sets out the objectives of a small economy that would impress even utopians. Let me remind you of those goals. First increase in employment, second increase in exports and adjustments to the world market, third increase in the efficiency of small economy quality and competitiveness, fourth research, development and application of modern technologies and innovations, fifth increase in small economy entities, sixth promotion of activities that do not pollute the environment. In one word, none of what is contained in this report. As a result, this Law should have had such an effect on the Croatian public even though none of the ruling ones obviously took it seriously. That this is evidence is also the fact that we have not once again proposed any amendments or additions to this Law, unlike the bankruptcy we discussed yesterday, which is already the fifth time certain innovations have gone on and in which 103 articles have been amended. So we are much more concerned with the prospect of bankruptcy than the development of small entrepreneurship, which is in fact 90% of the economy in Croatia. The lack of projects for the development of small entrepreneurship, which is explicitly stated in this Report, as well as the circumstance that business banks do not accept the guarantee of the state agency, says that there is a foreign capital in Croatia that simply does not want the development of the Croatian economy and that is clear to everyone. He wants to sell his products on the Croatian market at a far higher price than in any other country, so they only give their glass beads and trinkets for gold. In this context, the business bank, which I remind you of, will, of course, give you credit for the purchase of cars, new or used, skills, for luxury travel, for luxuries in the form of consumer non-intentional loans, etc., but for the development project HAMG will not give credit, will not give credit for a simple reason, nor with a state guarantee can anything be drawn from them, as it is allegedly said by foreign-owned business banks pose a risk to them. Oh, come on! They would therefore want and succeed, unfortunately, in doing so through consumer loans but without any business risk. That foreign capital, with the help of the ruling structure, has led Croatian citizens to debt slavery, is what we have heard here several times in the Assembly and that this same capital does not want to invest in Croatian production, it is clear to all, except paradoxically, it is not clear to HAMAG. And what is even more interesting is this fact of wonder and the Ministry of Finance, which was accompanied by this report, the Ministry of Finance's opinion on a small number of guaranteed guarantees to Croatian entrepreneurs. Indeed, the interesting surprise of the Ministry of Finance and Hamag is that they are talking about it because their surprise suggests that they are more actively closer to the status of the IMF branch than the main Croatian body responsible for financial affairs. The same can be said of the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Economy and dozens of existing agencies and no one knows what the service agencies are doing. In conclusion, this stylish report by HAMAG clearly shows not the work and action of HAMAG because they are honest and have nothing to do, but the inability and inability of the bodies in Croatia who are responsible for the economy, the development of entrepreneurship and economic strategy as well as Croatian economic policies as a whole, their impotence and indifference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57042	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57043	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Rosic said an incorrect allegation that Croatian agencies are towers of sand. Some agencies in Croatia have done a lot, and today they do. And I will single out only the Competition Protection Agency that must have justified its existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57044	Second respected representative, Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57045	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, it is incorrect that banks do not want to grant loans and do not want to accept guarantees because in the period from 2000 to 2003, these same banks granted craftsmen and a small economy more than 5 billion kuna loans but based on each other and different programmes and guarantees based on one different agreement and contracts with banks. So it's possible and they accept it anyway, you just need to make a quality program and make a quality deal with banks. There were 20 banks in that package that I once again said approved over 5 billion kuna loans to a small economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57046	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57047	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected director of the Croatian Agency for Small Entrepreneurship! World experience has shown that small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, are the driving force of each economy, primarily because of their resilience and tenacity to external influences and opportunities to adapt to new knowledge and new technologies. In the 1990s, we had a Croatian guarantee agency. It has grown into a Croatian small entrepreneurship agency as its legal follower and with the task of encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. In the first instance, there was a question of guarantees for a very large and significant number of entrepreneurs, and HAMAG was to sort of jump in and be one bypass between the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am not only talking about this government but also, generally, on the one hand and the banking system that is privatised on the other hand. We are witnesses and here I agree with my colleague Rožić and when it comes to loans for cars and import goods that banks, the banking sector which is privatised that there is no problem getting credit from them, however, when it comes to entrepreneurs, when it comes to the economy, mainly about smaller craftsmen and smaller entrepreneurs, then things go far, far harder. I can say that the only Croatian bank actually enables development in some way, and it is one link between the economy on the one hand and the banking service on the other hand, but the results themselves when it comes to the Croatian Guarantee Agency or HAMAG today, if we look at it in 2005, I think they have received solid results, and the national entrepreneurship incentive programme has produced solid results. However, speaking purely about HAMAG and its role in the last two, three years then we can say that these results are limited for several reasons because the director of the agency himself has raised certain problems he has faced together with people working in the Croatian Small Entrepreneurship Agency. It is also important to respect the opinion of the ministries and which are quite reserved but I would say that this is primarily about some technical problems and I am not inclined and I do not join the opinion of the Ministry of Finance in terms of the firm guarantees which should or should be guaranteed by entrepreneurs to HAMAG as such. The results in 2003, as Mr. Pecek spoke about success during the former coalition government, are somewhat more modest than in 2004 and according to the latest information, I can say at least when it comes to Split-Dalmatia County that things are going better. The question when it comes to banks, then it's certainly a matter of bank profits. I believe that since it is a practice that when it comes to production that has a longer deadline and banks are certainly facing more people in Croatia, unfortunately, more consumption because they make bigger profits and it is the banking policy of each bank in which they will go. However, this represents a new task in front of the government, ahead of the competent ministries to respond to these challenges ahead. In Split-Dalmatia County, thanks to me, I would say primarily to people working on the economy and encouraging small entrepreneurship, and solid results have been produced over the past few years. Among others, I will mention one fact that can in some way be an indicator of everything that is happening in this sector, which is one survey conducted among entrepreneurs, which included all those who are resting, primarily beginners in business. You can see the profile when, you can see the profile means entrepreneurs in the region of Dalmatia, in the area of Split-Dalmatin County. When it comes to school preparation, when it comes to... But it's indicative that in the emergency entrepreneurship of the number of respondents, 53% of them go out of need, out of necessity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they were brought into one social position, a social situation to rest, to decide on a private business because they don't have another choice. And only 47% is looking at that one chance in terms of a good business opportunity, an opportunity for... Work or continue the already stalking home business. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] I believe that local self-government units should also play a key role when it comes to encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I'm going to say that the government, we all know that the government actually made a decision last year, which is related to the transfer of forest land where this land stands down for the development of working zones, 1 kuna for 1 hectare, but would certainly units of local self-government to which this land was transferred or would be transferred should make one shift. Namely, when it comes to the price of land to be equipped then small entrepreneurs cannot be competition and cannot compete with large trade chains and large systems, and I believe that just through lower-level economic policy, starting from county to local self-government units, they should move towards fostering entrepreneurship and in some way rely on the policies of the Ministry of Economy and Croatian small and medium-sized entrepreneurship agencies. And let me get this straight. Regardless of the results that were in 2003, in 2004, these results are somewhat better and I believe that there is a need to insist on promoting the entrepreneurial spirit. That the support itself needs to be stronger and I hope that the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Small Entrepreneurship Agency will find ways to establish such relations and such arrangements with business banks, and that it will be a guarantee of a new step-up when it comes to the development of the economy throughout Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57048	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57049	Well, from the debate so far, the presentation of colleagues is visible, which is all the problems related to the operation of HAMAG, or to the development of a small economy and so is related to agriculture and everything else. There is no real congestion unless we create a domestic state bank that will have a feeling and follow projects that are aimed at developing Croatia. So this is now the basic part where we have to agree to create a state bank that will monitor everything that will be possible in the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship on the one hand and on the other hand about agriculture. This way we won't do much, and all we know is that the business banks that are in foreign hands, which we taxpayers have recovered, and then at the end of that recovery, we get only 20% of the funds we invested in the recovery, have their own interest. It is easier for them to give non-intentional consumer credits. They know that they will easily cover themselves through mortgages and other guarantees because the fact that HAMAG provides guarantees on a particular project, and the business bank does not accept it enough. Smart enough to say it once. So we create a state bank and then we solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57050	Thank you. Replica, please a little... Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here you go. Bitumen, yeah. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57051	Thank you, Mr. President. I absolutely agree with Mr Kovacevic in part that Croatia needs a strong business bank to monitor the economy. With HBOR already having good and solid references in financial circles, not only with us but also beyond that is not enough. However, I think that you and I can agree that the state cannot, by some decision, create that bank itself, but rather, those people in whose area it is when it comes to finance that, within the framework of the Croatian economy, some major companies, a consortium, we should create a strong business bank that will accompany small businessmen. Which will follow Croatia's economic areas at all because without it, there is no luck. I will repeat what I have said and agree with you in your replica of the foreign bank goes to the front line to make as much profit as possible and they are only in the second place or third place the success of the economy in the area they cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57052	Thank you. Second replica, the respected representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues and counterpart Kovacevic already spoke small entrepreneurship is certainly the floor, in a way, a cornerstone of the development of Croatia's economy. But in the area of the Varazdin County where the programs and Racan's and even after this government of Ivo Sanader were very popular they always crashed in banks. It is interesting that the programmes that are in the counties of those committees are positively assessed, so let us even consider that these commissions may be a little wider hands and give confidence to programs that may often not be good to the end. But it's interesting that in the end, when they come to the bank grades, they're regularly even well rated, but they can't get credit in banks. For what? Because there are privileged and subsidized interest. Banks are more often and more likely to decide, and all banks are not only foreign but also domestically seeking as much profit as possible, they do not want to lend loans to such loans in cooperation with the state and with the counties, but instead to give and direct entrepreneurs to their more expensive loans. And exactly the tasks of this government, but also of HAMAG, it would have to be to create an atmosphere and to agree with the banks of the rules of conduct, that in some ways it would not be, not just their own money, but also the state, because that way we will get a more quality entrepreneurship. What you colleagues cannot agree with you say is that, and that we have information on page 3 of this report that, are modest results in 2003. If we know that the Agency was just established in 2003, that it worked far less staff, that it was voluntary, that there were problems with registration, then these results are not modest. On the contrary, surely if we are going to analyze the number of months the Agency has been doing birth problems and everything else, the Agency certainly had better results than it was in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57054	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57055	I support your thinking on this and here I agree with you, and I think you will agree with me that when it comes to fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and in general the economy in Croatia and when it comes to the banking sector, there are a lot of open issues. However, we must be aware that we are on the market, that we are in a single competition, and the results themselves in 2003 and 2004 when it comes to HAMAG, I do not think so much must be crucial. So to say on one side how much was the cost, and how much was the loan, or guarantee, I don't think it was, it's important to achieve one consensus of the Parliament, which is that we need to make a new step. That we also have to give these people who work at the Croatian Agency for Small Entrepreneurship and that the government of the current and those governments that will be behind it, that they are in some way running such a policy, and I think that the programme that the Ministry of Economy has created back 2 years, for a year and a half, is a good basis for encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and at all the economy at Croatia level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57056	Thank you. At 10.44, it was time for an individual debate on this agenda point. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57057	Mr. President, Mr. President of the HAMAG Board. First of all, we should see what happens to our economy, which is because the needs for investment, construction of the plant, new machines, craftsmanship and debt reprogramming have always been high. Most craftsmen were also in charge of earlier investments, often spending more money than planned. Customers pay irregularly and late, property is already mortgaged and the like. We had action, here's Entrepreneur One, Entrepreneur Two, former Ministry of Resuscitation of the Small Economy, craftsman. They went pretty hard, in my community we managed to split 14 million kunas in two years. After two years, we should have actually divided that money somehow into craftsmen because the banks were endlessly complicated by giving and loans and guarantees. The local self-government was in some and appreciated by the Ministry of Trade because the craftsmen came and said "what if you didn't have loans", local self-government had to give up money for loans instead of investing in infrastructure and creating conditions for businesses. Some banks reacted quickly and gave the biggest craftsmen far more favourable loans than Entrepreneur 1 and Entrepreneur 2 offered. That's why I'm surprised in 2004, a small number of demands from the guarantee banks. Now, we can talk about the samples, whether this is a lack of promotion, whether it is a reshuffle, whether the continuation of the work of HAMAG in 2004 by the methods of 2003, whether the promotion of new programmes was done, or whether the promotion of new programmes was done for 2005 so that it could not be realized in 2004. And there's one more thing about craftsmen and it's a traditional mistrust in state agencies. Which is no wonder if we remember by the 1990s the craftsmen were the enemies of society, the notorious layer of the population. In all possible ways, the opening of new crafts has been prevented. The honor of exceptions, some areas such as Chakovacka, the Samoboric area where there was more understanding. Because if that weren't the case, we would have welcomed the 90th year with a developed craft, so the old socialist mastodonts, a clinical factory whose mark was the size of the chimney, let the tourists see what a developed country was, would have failed more painlessly. It is fortunate, however, that the collapse of factories is accompanied by the creation of small employees' companies or even more often, former employees who, as well as the managers of those factories, who quickly took over the customers and beat up their own factories. It is obvious that HAMAG in 2004 did not notice either old or new entrepreneurs, so operating costs are more significant than the basic activity. That is why I find it unclear why the president of the administration, I see at the 13th session of the Management Board held on 28.12.2004, received the award. In fact, logic is always the hardest to apply in its own company. In 2004, a network of consultants began to form for a small economy. Local self-government has offered to co-operate with the establishment of numerous entrepreneurship centres. The announced new guarantee programmes must have reduced the interest of the old, not enough convincing. Their effects will be seen from the 2005 report. HAMAG here sets out a programme for new entrepreneurs which is good, a programme for areas of special state interest, for islands, mountain-mounted areas, developed defenders with an incentive guarantee. Normally, it is necessary to care and encourage stalker entrepreneurs, and special efforts should be made to present the guarantee programme to farmers because they seem to be the least informed of it. It is of paramount importance that the crafts capital programme is up to 3 million kunas because often due to weak and irregular payments to craftsmen never enough trade capital. Guarantees up to 40% of the mains are fine. I believe that HAMAG in the new space in 2005, and I especially believe in the new administration, will justify expectations and founders, as well as entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57058	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57059	He would correct only one of a series of incorrect allegations that actually shows the essence of the whole exposure, that Mr. Markovanovic does not understand at all what entrepreneurship is. It's an incorrect allegation that destroying factories and factory chimneys have opened up a space for entrepreneurship. Because if there aren't big systems, then these entrepreneurs don't have anything to work for. Because it seems to me that here some people who talk about entrepreneurship just think they're caterers and little merchants, which is notorious nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57060	We're going to a replica show. First, honourable representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57061	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Markovanovic, I am surprised as Chief of the Holy Week that you have succeeded in speaking this kind of speech in Parliament. Look, what was the credit model in your term? You probably forgot what contract you signed with me. You got from the ministry a million kuna, a million kunas you added to yours and created a guarantee fund that the bank gave 5 times more money to. So it's a model that's about to create a 10 million kuna fund that you've placed in your area. However, I understand that you were one of the least successful partners. Probably the reasons there were in you, because I'll remind you we had 110 such contracts and we placed over 5 billion kunas, and you did a successful St. Sunday where there was a craftsman you just placed 15 million kunas. However, when we look at the conditions. Well, the conditions were getting better and better every year. I'll remind you if you don't know it. '99. The year of interest was 13%. We managed to bring that interest down in 2000 through projects supported by HAMAG, or HAGE at that time to 8%. So we got to 6% interest in three years. So, in four years, we cut our interest rates from 13 to 6%. And I find it strange that you as the man who participated in this project that was much more favourable than today. Today, if you conclude a contract with the ministry and the HAMAG, you must subsidise interest, and you do not receive a kuna from the ministry to implement the credit programme. So it's completely the other way around. The previous system was much more favourable and the money from the loan return remained and remained on the jury account of your municipality. Well, at least we should know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57062	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57063	Thank you. Apparently, Mr. Pecek from his high ministerial position didn't realize what was going on down there at all. For these million kunas, we could have done a lot of plumbing and sewers in one of our industrial zones, which would certainly have been welcomed by the businessmen. And what was I like? Well, ask the craftsmen. Finally, since the underdeveloped suburb of Zagreb, Saint Sunday has become the most developed centre of small entrepreneurship in Croatia. And as far as he doesn't understand, I believe that would be read, but not by professional politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57064	Second replica, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57065	The reports we received always make us shut up so we don't embarrass ourselves. An entrepreneur who in one day forms a firm or so our government has now made it possible for a year to worry about any institution that has been purposely formed to help him. And some of us will keep quiet so we don't embarrass ourselves, because it's a disgrace to all of us. But Mr. Markovanovic won't shut up, no, no. He comes from socialism, from the previous government and offers hope again. So he's discussing a report that we should keep quiet about. Mr. Markovanovicu, this institution has been formed to solve the problem of entrepreneurs in 24 hours. She hasn't done it in 2004. If the bank doesn't give credit, it's not the bank owner's problem, or the foreign bank as someone here speaks. The problem is Hamag. He needs to secure a loan in the bank. Him, that's his job. 21 men on our side funded to secure a loan in the bank. Not the entrepreneur, Hamag. Once we figure that out, we're gonna make people who get the money turn for the benefit of the entrepreneurs. Because registering a company is the easiest thing to do. It's hard to do business. And that's why we're forming institutions to help do business. HAMAG didn't do it in 2004 and you can call it socialism, but the problem is these 21 people. And the problem is the government if the bank accidentally doesn't lend a loan to the HAMAG. That's what the government does. But of course, the problem is those 21 people who didn't work, who didn't run, who didn't make the banks give credit. And it's not the banks' fault. It's Hamag's fault. For we would rather keep silent than find justification for our unhappiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57066	Replica response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57067	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, now you've seen actually colleagues and colleagues the reason I'm talking. Because he's just doing people like Mr. Linic who are used to people being silent in front of him. And we've welcomed a time when we can speak freely. And counterpart Linic, who is also an excellent businessman, also chose several companies to help others, such as Europetrol, and to destroy everyone else, because as chairman of the INA Supervisory Board, he could do it. And on behalf of all those you destroyed, Mr. Linic, I'm talking here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57068	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57069	You can talk...... Yeah, yeah, there's no warning there, right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It can be... Can I? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57070	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57071	You can talk one way or the other, and your colleague Markovanovic always does the same. So in order to justify the poor results of the current government, this should be clouded by the criticism of the former government, perhaps the former system, and then we solved the problem. Obviously not. It should be remembered that by 2000 the banks had not approved the loans at all. And if you were lucky enough to get a loan it was as lucky as winning a lottery bonus, but you got interest between 12 and 15%, that's what my colleague Pacek said. And that's when it changed. Both citizens and entrepreneurs could receive loans precisely because the state reacted in the way it reacted to both citizens and entrepreneurs. So there was a chance that there could be credit at all because the state co-financed interest, but also along with local and regional self-government forced banks to actually engage in entrepreneurship. And that's true. And that part should continue to develop and not go backwards, and then justify it by criticising what the former government was doing. I've said several times here, this government has won trust in the elections, it needs to solve citizens' problems, it needs to solve problems in society, not criticise what the government has done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57072	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57073	And I'm still saying the same thing. Well, I'm very sorry that I've remembered for a long time, so I can say. I know as well as how banks reacted in '88, '89, who could even get privileged loans, who flew first into privatizing these privileged loans and so on. Well, I'm very sorry to be back to the work of your government, but the fact is that I don't really know what's been going on in those four years right now. Because all your good ideas have started since the beginning of our reign, obviously, from the moment you became an opposition. And everything you've actually established was at the end of 2003 when, and the agencies, I don't know, you started a whole series of things new, you put in charge of this government to solve everything, everything that you didn't do. And as much as you can and as realistic as that was, that's another thing already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57074	Next replica, Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Markovanovic began out of socialism and went through conversion and privatisation, and I would only return it to conversion and privatisation where he says the company's collapse produced the development of new companies. That's not true. The company's collapse produced new rich people, these rich people got loans with one single signature, destroyed companies, broke up the economy, and 90% of those new rich people didn't get their first million legally. We all know that very well, and we know what kind of economy it was. HAMAG's job is to build a small enterprise that will rest on the law, not on the robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57076	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57077	Thank you. Obviously, Mr. Kapaljevic was in other waters at the time, because he really doesn't know what was going on. I can tell you a few specific factories around which a whole series of small companies were formed. Unfortunately, these are now respected craftsmen, but at the time they were doing everything to make their own company fail. They took over the customers, the commercials at the factories sent and shared cards to the customers, go here, here is cheaper and similar. And it's very hard that everything was so ruined, because it's already 89/90. It's already been quite the end of many companies, except you won't admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57078	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57079	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. At the beginning of the debate, he asked why the craftsmen in such a position that they were enemies in the past system, I don't know who, and he said that except in the ancient area...... Međimurju. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague, Markovanovic, is Međimurje. Try to remember the name of that part of Croatia,... It's not even the Chakotay County, it's the Međimurje County. [[You don't understand.]] Don't be ashamed to say it and say it. But how is it that according to the same regulations, the same laws, in the same system and system in Međimurje, the craftsmen were not enemies and they did everything, and everywhere they were enemies, it was never clear to me. You are right that we had developed craftsmanship because it developed and ran without politics and politics rather than professional moves. But we're discussing the 2004 HAMAG report. Who's to blame for before? Well, here's what I'm suggesting is that the guilt of the entrepreneurship situation be declared by Franz Joseph and Mary Teresa, they can't be dumb or angry, because we keep going back to history looking for the guilty in 2004. We could go a little further back in history, but I'd stop at Franz Joseph, he was famous for it. And in the end, banks don't accept HAMAG's guarantee. Why? We deal with it, we figure it out every year, even eight years we have HABOR, we have HAMAG, we have the power to the banking system accept a state guarantee, entrepreneurs have expensive loans. Finally, I would really like to hear the official opinion and attitude of the Croatian Chamber of crafts and on this report and in the work of HAMAG in 2005. It would be very good to know, not that we think of what craftsmen think, small and medium entrepreneurs, but that they tell us what they think of HAMAG in the last two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57080	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57081	Here I apologize to my colleague for not including the whole of Međimurje, but I don't know about all of Međimurje, but I do know from the conversation of the former mayor I was with and who I talked to, who told me nicely about his craftsmanship all praiseably and I was very happy to have it. And why some areas were better tolerated or treated however you like, or encouraged craftsmanship, and others less, and the reason was in the political structures that ruled. Because let's remember from a series of conversations with craftsmen, I know that the room where they wanted it was too high, too low, too narrow, too long, there's always a number of reasons not to give people permission to deal with craftsmanship. But here's a colleague ask some of your colleagues, they'll know it far better than I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57082	And a respected representative, Zvonimir Mršić, is a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57083	So you see a colleague, Markovanovic, who was the result of the operation and operation of HAMAG last year. Out of the total revenues of 11 million 918 thousand, 4.5 million went to material costs, employee costs and immaterial costs. 3.5 million went to entrepreneurs, which is why the HAMAG exists, and 3.5 million remained neutral in the account. Just as much as Hamag did last year. So a million kunas cost more HAMAG, wages and material and immaterial costs than all these numerous entrepreneurs in Croatia, and how much easier loans and incentives are now being obtained, and so, says the situation that the Ministry of Economy at Christmas last year, pardoned Christmas last year, sent units of local self-government notice on how much money they got to equip municipal entrepreneurship zones in 2004 because there is probably enough time to spend it between Christmas and the new year, and by the day of today, and here we are, in the second half of February, there is not even a tender for municipal equipment of entrepreneurial zones in 2005, and should be started working for a few days, because the construction season has just begun. And as for the loan, for example, that the town of Koprivnica was able to conclude a contract with the Ministry of craft, small and medium entrepreneurship, granted 52 loans to the beginners from which 106 jobs were opened in a fund of 4 million and 400 thousand kuna, so only the town of Koprivnica in 2002 and 2003 formed a larger fund than last year HAMAG, so the state agency transferred money for all of Croatia, for the development of entrepreneurship throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57084	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57085	Here's my dear colleague, I'm sorry, I usually look at it is there or you're not, but it seems to me that you were here after all, because here you really saw what I was saying, so I'm going to do it again, I'm going to repeat one sentence. It is obvious that HAMAG in 2004 did not notice either old or new entrepreneurs, so business costs are more significant than basic activity. I think that's where we agreed, since my colleague wouldn't listen. As far as investment is concerned, who invested more, we can talk about it. We must have invested more than a hundred million kunas in the infrastructure just for craftsmen, and I think success was quite significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57086	Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57087	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It is very interesting to listen to a debate about such a serious problem as small entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia and normally, one wonders how real the benefits of those who gave the Report can come from these, some times and very destructive discussions. I will repeat what it says in the introduction of this report in order to concentrate a little more and focus on what is most important. The Croatian Small Economy Agency was founded as a special legal person to encourage the development of a small economy. Encouraging and setting up small economy entities, encouraging investment, financing and providing guarantees, approving grants for different forms of incentives. All of this is extremely important, all of this is not disputed as it continues to be said, using guarantees is a particularly significant advantage for entrepreneurs who do not have enough own resources. The aim of this debate is to analyse the work of the Agency, well-intentioned on its work so that the real effects of such an important institution would benefit the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia, for the overall economy, for employment, for everything that is very important today and very current. In your Report you should highlight one section relating to the review period 95-2004. I don't know why the proper attention was given. Probably for technical reasons because all that was happening, unfortunately in 2004, was not relevant enough to deserve a debate in the Croatian Parliament. By assessing the period 95-2004 you said that HAMAG through its guarantee programmes gave satisfactory results and that the approved guarantees and support of over 100 million planned investments are significant. It's undeniable, but a little further you pointed out next. That it was planned to open about 5,000 new jobs without looking back at what really happened. What is important in future reports and in all reports submitted to the Croatian Assembly is the objectification of statistics that must clearly indicate what the real results are. Today in Croatia is a very popular term that has come to us from the European Union fortunately, and even the European Union has come from the United States, and it is called "bench marketing". When you deliver such important reports, then you will have to comply with certain standards proposed by the European Commission and which will be through the so-called "bench mark" standardized tests evaluate the work of this agency much more objectively. How much its contribution through all its activities is increasing gross national income, how much it contributes to employment, etc. Without these objective statistical reports, and this objectivity is unfortunately a great handicap in assessing everything we do, and we saw this recently when we talked in the Croatian Parliament about the Report of the National Statistics Institute. A statistics which unfortunately are not suitable for this time today, the ambitions of the Republic of Croatia and the fact that statistics are one of the areas as well as these here to be negotiated with the European Union. In this regard, the Agency's programmes of the Type Programme for Small Entrepreneurship have produced good results. The programme for areas of particular interest has produced excellent results. The "Development" program gave good results. The "Start" program didn't give the expected results due to the problem with consultants, so this is an arbitrary assessment that one can accept or not have to accept. And therefore objectiveising the reports delivered to the Croatian Parliament and which should be the basis for discussions in order to avoid unnecessary improvisation in the interpretation of what you claim. Very briefly, as it was said, in 2004, unfortunately, it was not a year that could impress anyone with its results. Guarantees, 10 of them in the amount of 3 million and 125 thousand kuna. When you norm about the total gross national income or any other reference value, then you will see how unfortunately the work of this Agency is today inconsistencies with what we rightly expect. Economic growth, employment and all that is very important. But there are promising signs, and that's what you said. What happens in 2005 is encouraging. However, when we talk about such important areas that deserve special attention not only to the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament, but also to the Croatian public, it is not good to talk about what happened in 2004 today. Because when this happens then any regulatory mechanisms and processes and supervision and guidance of the work of this Agency are unfortunately not possible. It is likely to anyone well-known who has ever dealt with managing or controlling complex dynamic systems and processes. What's important is what you pointed out. The significance of HAMAG was undeniable for areas of special interest, that's very good. Even 91% of the grants are granted under the programme. Agricultural financing is over 50%, interest 3.5%, etc. However, what is not good and what concerns and is not and cannot be exclusive and the only responsibility of HAMAG is some facts. Here, I'll point out some of them. More than new requirements for guarantee and support have been met by bank requests for a reprogramme of individual previously approved loans. And that is a sign, unfortunately, that many of those companies that were founded in that segment don't work well. It is something that warns us to deal with a little more what is called entrepreneurial culture, entrepreneurship performances of Croatian entrepreneurs, their competitiveness. Here are some cultural problems that certainly have their effect, but this is what you would especially point out and you have pointed out in your Report. It is indisputable and is one of the main reasons and obstacles why we are making so slow progress and why your work is objectively difficult. Lack of crafts, unrealistic planning, consequences of ignorance, lack of own resources, disrespect for the planned investment structure, unintended spending of funds, etc. In all that is extremely important and what you have pointed out is related to education projects, not only consultants but training entrepreneurs who must be able to plan quality, to develop quality reliable business plans that will be able to be inserted into the appropriate economic niches that exist in the Republic of Croatia, which are not sufficiently highlighted. Research of business niche, etc. It's all important. What I think should be highlighted and not sufficiently said, the importance of logistics chains, small entrepreneurship without large systems does not work, and that is something that deserves attention, I personally gave lectures for NATO's scientific committee in 2001, 2002, in the role of medium and small enterprises and their relationship with large systems especially in the context of the collapse of the defence budget, etc. Reconfiguring dual technology, the chances they have or do not have such companies without large systems is something that deserves special attention, logistics chains are certainly extremely important in Europe, erbas, 100,000 items, but also logistics chains can and must be established in the Republic of Croatia, one of the major projects is a ship. The Croatian ship has 10,000 positions, a great opportunity for medium and small entrepreneurship, but unfortunately time has expired quickly, much important on this important topic should be... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57088	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. ... You didn't. You gave it later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't. Here you go, Mr. Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57089	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57090	I follow very carefully and very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57091	I agree with you that we need to improve statistical methods and models, but this promotion will not do anything unless we advance the work, because statistics are talking about the past time and this report is actually past the time, I am talking about 2004 and it tells us that it was bad and it is actually fundamental what we should discuss today and that it is a basis for us to do better work in the future. 10 guarantees worth 3 million kuna is obviously bad work. You mentioned a reprogramme, that it appeared as a problem in Hamag's work. Well, Hamag should be working on the reprogramming of those who have had some difficulties in their business. So do you expect all of them to be successful? I've had the opportunity to present this Croatian model to the U.S. State Agency for a small economy and you know what they said? If 20% of the entrepreneurs fail that we followed through a similar agency, we consider it a success. So the model needs to be promoted, but it doesn't start over and over again. The programs were good, the programmes were guaranteeingly good, but the board of directors gave a message not good for those programs. Well, of course the banks wouldn't accept such guarantees. I hear here today from the president of the board, and I hear from you that a network of consultants should be developed. Kusic, a colleague, has over 200 consultants in Croatia who have passed exams and completed training and have international certificates. We have over 200, so this job is done, we don't need to move from the beginning, so I guess we recognize what happened at the time of the former government, or we always have to invent a new model, move from the beginning, and attribute to any success, and there's a network of consultants, let's activate them, it's the job of HAMAG, do it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57092	Replica response, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57093	I'm afraid I have to replicate, but I don't know what to say to everything Mr. Pecek pointed out in those few seconds. First, challenging statistical reports, I would say challenging statistical reports is a sign of a lack of understanding of the importance of statistics for all important processes, especially the economy. This is not at all controversial, statistics are important, it must have appropriate standards and in that sense its challenge, ignoring, marginalising unfortunately is a handicap that refers to understanding what is called and assessing the risks. Risks are extremely important, should be assessed by expert competent consultants and in such conditions risks unfortunately when it comes to entrepreneurship are very large, but the number of those programs which, by their quality, contribute to their added value is the meaning of what is called small entrepreneurship,... adventures, investment, etc.,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] capital, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, consultants, that we have them, but the results are not visible. We also have what is said, the problems of entrepreneurs and their performances. Look at some standard features, the abilities of Croatian entrepreneurship, especially in this segment, you will see that unfortunately their performances are at the bottom of the European scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57094	Second Replic, Honored Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57095	So I fully agree with you, Col. Ćosic, that this report was practically meant to provide answers to what you said in the introduction, which is why none of the goals that founded the agency in 2004 were achieved. You have also read, it is now quite clear that no single goal has been practically achieved, but instead we have received a report on where they were representatives of HAMAG, so we have seen that they were in Japan, so we have seen that they were in Sibenik, even we know that where they were in Sibenik, that this counseling was under the high patronage of the Prime Minister Dr. Eve Sanader. Instead of getting examples of reasons why banks don't accept HAMAG guarantees, so let's say what someone needs to do to get banks to start accepting HAMAG guarantees, which is all we need to do to raise the ability of entrepreneurs, which is all we have to do to do some other things, why we don't really have a Bench marketing in this report between the regions, because we see that polls in 6 counties have been made on some things. Why didn't we get, for example, the results of these surveys, these surveys, and why we didn't get an interpretation of the results from those six counties to see what the differences between these counties and what the lessons of this research are because if the research was done just to see how informed the service entrepreneurs are then I think it really was for the money thrown away and there was no action after these results were done. So I think we can agree that the agency was on its own last year. But what is even more concerned is that we do not have what this agency will do in 2004 to achieve the results and objectives for which it was established.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57096	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik. ... No, you're not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I followed you as closely as last time. And please don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57097	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! I agree with you, co-worker Ćosic, that it is not good to discuss the 2004 report now in early 2006. However, I hope that, as a very influential member of the majority coalition, you will still work on the fact that both with your influence and with the Presidency of the Parliament, these topics come much earlier because when we talk about programmes, which was a message to the banks when the old programmes are said, they are not good. Don't accept our guarantees. That's what this is about. And about the fact that the programme is not good or that the report is not good, but the government accepts it if you have carefully watched and read what some ministries have answered and given an opinion on this report. For example, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, however, knowing the real situation concerns a small number of guarantees issued which should be explained. But the ministry must, tourism, transport and development, among other things, that no one accuses me of carrying out only one piece, they say they have no objections to the entire report. But the total number of guarantees issued seems to be very small. A large number relate to the reprogramming of already approved guarantees what is now particularly significant. The number of eight guarantees on programmes for areas of special state interest seems insufficient for us to launch more significant economic recovery in these areas. By the way, I'm asking a question to you, to yourself, to all of us, the Government has pompously announced a new Law on areas of special state interest because this one as a special state concern is not good. Well, it'll probably contribute when one day it comes to this High House's agenda to start the economic recovery of those areas. But it seems that a lot of water needs to be passed both by Sava and Drava to reach such laws and programs in this House of High and to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57098	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57099	Well, as far as the report is concerned, I don't think it's at all controversial, and we all agree more or less that it didn't impress anyone, but it should also be guided by some starting condition when the agency started operating in the new mandate. In 2004, it's really not a big number, and that's what we talked about. It's something that doesn't satisfy, it's something that needs to be improved, but it also needs to be reminded of what's being said. In 2003, nine, 2005 which we will discuss a far larger number and I hope very soon and report for 2005 when we will probably have far better performances of this agency's work. As far as the objectives are concerned, it is said that the objectives were not achieved in 2004 and that is true, but targets are not written in one year, nor can the objectives of this character be achieved in one year. The objectives are being achieved as part of a planned long-term process. These goals should show statistics and gravints of the growth of HAMAG activity year by year. Probably from this quick information that we had could be extrapolated in 2003, 2004, 2005 the growth of HAMAG's activity in the interests of the small economy but here's the debate on this subject we expect to continue very soon when we get the 2005 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57100	Respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović is next in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57101	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's counterpart Cosic, I'm surprised by the many replicas and I totally agree with you, after all, and the opposition when she criticized this report is entirely consistent with what you gave a very short and very accurate assessment of this report. The Agency did not meet expectations and did not comply with the economic programme of the Government. Only maybe a little correction. The government's programme is identical to this HAMAG report because the government can't do any different than its derivative, or the HAMAG itself that it has spent, has become its own purpose, it's obvious that it served as a sinecur to people because it has no use for it. But it's really weird that in 2006 because then our debate is really groundless because there is already a fixed state for 2005. I doubt that's much better. So, with this determination of yours that she has failed to meet expectations, we agree. Only your party colleague Markovanovic may disagree who seems to be the happiest man in Croatia today because the high chimneys of socialism have been destroyed. And he thinks all the problems are solved. But here you can see, in 2004, the 2004 business year ended in a way that the headlines of many of our media came out like this: "The decline of more and more craftsmen and companies."
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57102	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57103	Well, here's a very short one. It is not true that this agency has failed to meet expectations. That's what you said, that's not what I said. I said this report reflects the reality of inherited condition, objective problems, and we expect your results to be much better. This shows the information we received around 2005 but the serious things are brought down to triviality, unfortunately, is part of a non-serious and irresponsible policy. We talked about everything that needs to be done in order to increase the efficiency of this important Croatian government agency. Many things are said usefully and I hope that many things will be applied usefully and that the results, especially those relating to strengthening the network of consultants, training Croatian entrepreneurs through education, systematic, targeted and quality, will be paid very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57104	And a five-minute debate on behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to repeat maybe one more thing that this, this report and this kind of work we discussed for 2004 Croatian small economy agency no longer repeats. It is obvious that HAMAG does not do what it should under the provisions of the Small Economy Act. But we forgot something else. There was also a small economy development programme during the former government, it still exists today. The operator of that program should be HAMAG right now. Of course, it doesn't say anything in the report here. Because according to that programme this year, for example, it should be invested, which was here for the economy of little 400 million kuna, and will be invested around 100. Four times less, but of course we won't talk about it here. A question that's been going through the debate why no guarantees are being accepted in banks. As foreign banks, they don't want to accept it. But why do foreign banks want to accept state guarantees for highways? The state agency has the exact same treatment so they don't want to accept it because they're not doing the right thing again, because we still have the wrong model and the wrong contracts with the banks. Well, that's the only truth. Obviously, we have to, and we can focus on domestic banks. Unless they want sides, I guess the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should participate in activities with HAMAG. But is there a programme of Hamag and HBOR cooperation? Well, of course there isn't. Is there a Hamag and Post Bank program? Croatian postal banks. It doesn't exist. But what was it before? In 1999, I will repeat interest in banks was for the economy and a little over 10%, between 12 and 15% for investment capital. 28.12.2004. we see in the report the new programmes are yet to be adopted. The period we bridged between 1999 and the period covered by the interest report fell double. Interests are now open to small entrepreneurs somewhere between 6% and 7% and bank doors are open to craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. It's actually the only truth. However, the tragedy is that this same agency that changed the old programmes because they were not good has brought new programmes in 28.12.2004 and has already changed them in half 2005. But the only truth is, this shouldn't happen anymore if we spend 3 million and 300,000 kuna on guarantees and spend 4 million and 600 thousand kuna on salaries. The only thing that shouldn't happen in the future is that to support entrepreneurs, we give them 230 thousand kuna, and we spend more than 300 thousand kuna on cell phones and stuff like that. Or rather, this work is reluctant to cost the state 8 and a half to 9 million kuna from the State budget that the transfer took place in 2004. But they inherited a very good, good direction. For the first time in Croatia, the Small Economy Act has been passed where we have defined both the legal framework and the size. We've also brought encouraging measures. We adopted a small economy development programme and the Croatian small economy agency was supposed to be the bearer of the activity. I'll remind you, we had 47 entrepreneurship centers in 2003. We had 29 incubators. 494 entrepreneurs introduced ISO standards through these programmes. We supported innovation, and I'm going to stress over five billion kunas we've placed in crafts, small and medium entrepreneurship. That's the only truth. And our partners were municipalities, cities and counties where we created a joint deposit fund, where we created a joint guarantee fund and thus the cities, municipalities and counties received over 100 million kuna from the State budget for three years. It's the other way around today. Today, municipalities, cities and counties must co-finance credit programmes. So you separate from your modest incomes, unlike the 2% interest. Instead of getting 100 million kuna for the development of small entrepreneurship, they will have to give about 200 million kuna in my budgets from their own funds for the realisation of these programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57106	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First it's... Krunoslav Markovović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57107	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to do to correct my colleague. It's not true that the company's programs aren't working because with so many consultants Mr. Pecek has educated, it's practically impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57108	Correction by Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57109	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Pacek said the banks don't accept giving guarantees. I can't agree with that. That's not true. In 2004, banks did not grant guarantees for a period of time, but because they were, as they were, applying old guarantee programmes which were not adapted to changes in the financial market. These old programs were brought by your government. The former coalition government. And banks couldn't really approve of it, give guarantees. Therefore, the new administration that was, I say, on, from this government that was appointed she has brought new programmes that prompted banks to provide guarantees and in 2005 we already see that the amount of guarantees in kunas is 60 million kuna. The loan amount is 107 million 181 thousand 84 kuna. So if it's a good program Then it's, then the banks give a guarantee. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57110	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you let your colleague talk three times out of time about what I didn't talk about. First of all, my claim is true that the programs were old because we have a realisation of more than five billion kunas. And Mr. Markovanovic should understand that these programmes are not done by consultants, but that these programmes are currently working, works by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57112	You, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you didn't mention the article you were invited to. And Mrs Majdenic denied with the figures your claim that the banks did not give guarantees so she listed the numbers where they were and when they were given guarantees. And your intervention regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure was not in line with the Rules of Procedure, and don't do that again. Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57113	I thank the chairman. The report on the work of HAMG shows that the resources from the State budget are spent on the functioning of the institution and not on encouraging entrepreneurs and programmes related to entrepreneurs. We also estimate that damage has been done to the state budget for 2004. The Government's programme to speed up the opening of companies, thus removing certain administrative barriers and making business easier for entrepreneurs, will not have a greater impact on economic growth because no administrative obstacles have been removed to channel funds from the State budget towards economic programmes. We also appreciate that the government and the government should, with a new programme of removing administrative barriers, ensure the flow from the budget to entrepreneurs so that they can have effects on the economy. We also estimate that the problem that entrepreneurs have with business banks is the reason for inadequate, unquality work in HAMAG because that institution would function would be the problems of entrepreneurs with banks resolved. So we also estimate that in that part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the necessary measures should be taken to intercede HAMAG in the work of entrepreneurs with business banks. From all of this, we estimate that the report is correctly written, but the SDP club cannot accept it because it indicates that HAMG's work is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57114	Thank you very much. Does he want a final? Here you go. Mr Tomislav Kovacevic, President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57115	The esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Since I'm here as manager I'll be very short and pragmatic. Today we all agreed, we discussed the 2004 report and then the administration, and mostly we all agreed, we're not satisfied with the results of the work of that administration because God simply didn't create us all, he didn't give us the same mission. Some created to be destructive, some created simply to win, to score goals. That's what I want on my team. I'll tell you briefly, in 2005, HAMAG works with 18 banks. HAMAG also has elaborated plans for new entrepreneurs and for the development of existing entrepreneurs. Also, when it comes to the network of consultants, I've already mentioned something. Therefore, in this finale I would say, we are not satisfied with the previous work, but as you have noticed today, there are positive results in this year. I still can't say I'm particularly happy with that. These aren't the results they're supposed to be yet, but at the end of the year I think we're going to have one completely, completely different HAMAG. Here in this belief I also convey a positive attitude to you, as well as to Croatian entrepreneurs. Now I can trust Hamag, I can believe in the development of my own and our total little economy. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57116	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57117	Thank you very much. So that's consummated. ... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We won't vote on him. Thank you very much. Annual report on Croatia's small economy business for 2004. I am voting on the following conclusion: the annual report on the business of the Croatian small economy agency is accepted. Who it is, let's get involved. We can vote. The result? With 73 for, 2 abstentions and 24 against, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57118	The annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2004 should now be in turn. There are no proposing representatives here, so unfortunately we're going to have to postpone this, although I have no idea why he's not here. ... There are no representatives of the motionors, none of them, none of which have been announced or any other, so we'll postpone it and see why it's not there. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Because I have no idea why they're not here, but here they are, no. We move to - The proposal for a water economy base for Croatia – The Water Management Strategy for the proposed water economy base of Croatia has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 20. Water law. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of a proposal for a water economy base for Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to introduce you to the water economy's basic Republic of Croatia, the Water Management Strategy. Under the Water Act, the Management Strategy is a long-term plan document which determines the vision, mission, objectives and tasks of state water management policy. It provides strategic definitions and guidelines for the development of the water economy, starting from the founding state of the water economy, development needs, economic opportunities, international commitments and the need to preserve and improve the ecological state of water and on water-dependent eco-systems. Its content is fully in line with all relevant European Union directives, and I must also point out that it is one of the main bases for the preparation of the basic cash withdrawal platforms, and also the development of applications for the use of monetary resources from the European Union funds. Let me also briefly explain what is on the water-economic base. Here at first we defined the state of water, the state of water management, we defined the water management strategy, and finally we defined its implementation. This water-economic base was developed by Croatian waters in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, i.e. the Water Economy Administration and with a specific one, and I would like to point out that 18 relevant scientific institutions participated in it. Analysis of the existing state and development needs has shown that Croatia has enough water for its needs, and that water resources are not limited to its quantity and quality, not limiting the economic development factor. However, due to the time and spatial imbalances of the water regime, efficient and environmentally acceptable water management requires systematic investment in the development and regular maintenance of water supply facilities functionality. The analyses also showed that, due to some of the non-sanitary war damages, the long-term development of insufficient investment in regular maintenance of protective facilities has significantly reduced the safety of people and their material goods in many areas that are potentially exposed to floods. Here let me also say that the fundamental objective of this water-economic base is to achieve a harmonised water regime on the state territory of the Republic of Croatia and in each of the four water areas. We must also define here that sufficient quantities of water quality drinking water should be provided in these water areas. It is also necessary to provide sufficient quantities of water for economic purposes. We also need to protect people and material goods from floods and other kinds of harmful water operation and we also need to protect and improve the ecological state of water and water-dependent eco-systems. I would also like to point out in particular what these are strategic goals of water management. These are like, at first I would particularly highlight the protection against the harmful effects of water, i.e. water use and also water protection. And within the water-economic base, we've particularly highlighted all of these three, all of these three elements. And let me also say something about flood protection. Here we must point out that, based on the analysis of the development scenarios, we have set the goal of bringing within the next 10 years a system of protection from harmful water action to 90%, which would be appropriate to the regulation and protection of water within the European Union. Also, as regards water use, it implies ensuring sufficient quantities of water to satisfy the quality for existing and developmental needs of all users. Normally, taking care of natural possibilities and renewables of water resources. Within the water-economic base, we have defined the goal, meaning that in the future, the supply of public water supply systems means from the current 76% to the level of 85 to 90%. We would also point out here, as far as water protection is concerned, that our goal is within the water-economic base that all settlements between 2,000 and 10,000 inhabitants are going to be brought into a state around 70% of them means that the wastewater disposal system and wastewater treatment are resolved in the percentages as I said. We also aim to solve all settlements that are more than 15 thousand inhabitants in 100 percent. So it's also in the waste disposal section, and it's also in the wastewater conditioning division. Also, in accordance with the provisions of the Water Act, and also the Framework Directive on the waters of the European Union, we have defined, within the water-economic base, specific areas of specific water protection, and these are areas designed to affect water for human use. It is also intended to protect economically important aquatic species. We have also defined water intended for recreation and bathing areas. We have also defined areas designed to protect individual habitats, including "Natura 2000". And we also defined the strategic reserves of groundwater. And finally, let me also state the estimated amount of implementation of this water-economic base. We plan to invest around 24 billion kuna in water-economic activities by 2020. From that, 10 billion kuna would be allocated for public water supply projects, about 11 and a half billion kuna for public sewage and waste water conditioning projects, and about 2 and a half billion kuna for flood protection projects. I must also say here that the main partners of the water economy in the realisation of this water economic base will be normal utility companies, spatial planning, environmental protection of businesses, agriculture, economy, science, education, and in particular the media. In the end, let us also invite all others who have an interest in getting involved and make possible improvements to this water-based economic base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57120	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57121	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The water management strategy is a fundamental long-term water economy planning document governing a single state water management policy as part of a wider strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia. The management strategy defines guidelines for the development of the water economy in the next long-term period until 2020, i.e. projections and further development up to the next 10 years, i.e. until 2030. This takes into account the development needs of our country, the ecological constraints, the water sector situation, the economic opportunities of the state and the demands of the international community to meet international standards in water management. The guidelines for the development of the water economy for that period are based on scientific research, continuous water monitoring and their use. Therefore, in the preparatory phase of this strategy, a series of studies and analyses have been developed to identify more reliable and rationally the objectives that are realistically possible. Expert evaluations of prominent scientists in the Republic of Croatia as well as relevant institutions and projections from other sectoral strategic documents have been used to look at future needs and development opportunities. Many solutions from the rich study and development plan documentation of the water economy of the Republic of Croatia have also been respected. In the proposal for a water management strategy that we are considering today, five chapters show the total water wealth available to the Republic of Croatia, the state of water and the coastal sea, the state of water management, strategic definitions and guidelines for the development of the water economy over the long term and the plan and implementation of the water economy development programme for the next 15 and 25 years, respectively. In order to successfully realise the objectives and implementation of the programme, cooperation of the water economy is necessary, in particular with the municipal sector in our country, with industry, agriculture, forestry, electricity and other activities, with the institutions of spatial planning and environmental protection, with nature protection institutions and in particular for the protection of water and water-dependent eco-systems. Thereafter, cooperation with local and regional self-government is also needed in particular in the section relating to municipal services and space management. The strategic objectives of water management set out in this strategy. The aim of water management and management is to achieve a full and harmonised water regime in the total national territory. This implies taking care of the spatial layout, the construction of the water system and the state of water quantity and quality in a way best suited to a given area and time. This includes ensuring the necessary quantities of drinking water for the needs of the population, ensuring the necessary quantities of water for different economic purposes, because that water does not have to be at the level of drinking water quality. Then protect the population and material goods from the harmful effects of water, protection and improvement of water and coastal sea conditions and on water-dependent eco-systems. So these main four strategic objectives for us in the Croatian democratic community are very high-quality and maintain the real need for both our citizens and the needs of the economy and enable it to develop. In order to achieve these objectives, a uniform and rational development of the water economy needs to be improved by introducing the principle of integrated water planning and management. In order to establish a water information system complete with a modernised water monitoring system and the establishment of catasters, water goods and water buildings, bring our legislation and regulations governing water management with European Union regulations. Technical support for water systems development programmes must also be improved through cooperation with professional and scientific institutions. The strategic water management objectives are processed and systematised according to the basic activities of the water economy, so for each activity, it would briefly indicate or give a shorter reference to the planned objectives. Water treatment and other water and protection against harmful water action. To protect the population, property, agriculture and industrial areas and other material goods. From floods and other forms of harmful action, water is predicted to restore functionality to the country's flood defence system until 2010 at the level at which it was in 1990, i.e. before the war destruction and the reduction of funds for the regular maintenance and development of the system. By 2025, the system would be raised to about 90% by capital investments, which would be appropriate to European standards. In addition, the flood defense and harmful action system is planned to be maintained regularly. In order to protect against erosion, melioration discharge, the development objectives will be set by the Ministry of Agriculture in cooperation with other institutions, and the water economy will participate in their realisation in accordance with financial opportunities. One of the most important tasks of integrated management is the finding and long-term protection of drinking water supplies. This is a particularly complex problem in the karst conditions of our country, and in the cross-border and border waterways and plumbers that we share with neighbouring countries. The increase in population standards and the development of the economy requires further development of the water supply system, and the planned period envisions an increase in the level of supply of the population from public water supply systems to 85 to 90%. Protecting the drinking water source would significantly improve. In addition, measures would be implemented to streamline water consumption and water supply systems, and would increase the security of water supply of all users, which is actually impossible to achieve in the current water supply organisation through our utility companies until it is arranged in one other way. To use water for other purposes such as hydroenergy, irrigation, fish farming, river navigation, sport, swimming, water recreation, mineral and geothermal water capture and other development carriers are other users, but the water economy will, as it has been, participate in their development in accordance with financial opportunities. Water and coastal sea protection involves preserving the good water condition, preventing devastation of water, and remediating the affected water condition for human health and the environment. As part of the planned activities, the priority for water and coastal protection is construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public sewage systems with the aim of achieving around 70% of the systems, about 70% of the disposal systems in settlements of 2 to 10 000 inhabitants, and about 77% of the public sewage system in settlements of 10 to 15 thousand inhabitants and 100% of the public sewage system in settlements of 15 and thousands of inhabitants. Depending on the water source, the construction of the first and second-degree wastewater treatment devices is planned. Joining the public drain system by 2020 would increase to 60% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia or to 2 million and 700 thousand inhabitants. In addition to those development objectives, a series of water protection measures will be implemented to reduce the release of waste materials from the water industry by 50% by 2010, and to improve the water and waste water quality control system that is released into water streams and into the coastal sea. The proposal for a strategy in Chapter 5 of the plan and implementation are detailed, all activities and measures and proposed holders of the implementation of the development and maintenance plan for each sector of the water economy. The following resources should be provided for public water supply of around 10 billion kuna, for public discharges of 11 and a half, and for flood defense systems of 2 billion kunas and 500 thousand kunas or around 24 billion kunas in total, according to an estimate of the investment costs of the development period 2005 to 2020. When you look at a more detailed analysis then the data provided shows that a billion kuna would be provided for capital investments in the Republic of Croatia in the water economy annually. With the Croatian water economy participating in the water supply issue with 583 million kuna, with 165 million repayments of existing loans raised for the development of the water supply system in the meantime. 684 million for public discharge, including 100 million loans to finance this development and 286 million kuna to finance the flood defense system so that it can be brought into the state I've already brought here. The activities of the maintenance of the hydrotechnical system of water and the realisation of the planned development of the water economy will be financed from the funds provided by the Water Economy Financing Act, with water co-financing in public water supply up to 50%, in public disposal 60%, and the development of a protection system against harmful action is exclusively the competence of the water economy and will be financed on the waters of the first and second order by direct budgetary transfers. Finally, I would point out that, according to the assessment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, the proposal for a water management strategy is a methodologically well done, but that it should be subject to the adoption of the Water Law and the Water Economy Financing Act. And that means we suggest he goes to another reading. Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57122	Thank you very much. In view of this proposal, and such a proposal was proposed by the home Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy to the Parliament in two readings, and I said here in the introduction that it refers as a second reading. I think such a suggestion, I personally think, is such a proposal in place. I would ask the Secretary of State to show himself about this proposal so that we may also discuss it in fact, if it is in two readings, then agree or. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57123	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Just as it is here, so we have already adopted amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act, as well as amendments and additions to the Water Act and in order to mean and debates that will be held here with you, we accept that the law goes into two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57124	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is next to the HNS club, Mr. Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57125	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Water is life, and there's no wine without water, you'd have to know that as an asset. So, I don't have to make this observation yet to be good, no matter what this isn't law, but a strategy to go to another reading, and if I accept these remarks that I'm about to make, we're going to vote for the strategy. So, at first I have to point out two procedural questions. First, a logical order of adoption of documents was violated, instead of first discussing the strategy on the water economic base, and only after that was the discussion of the amendments to the Water and Water Finance Act, was made the opposite, amendments and additions to both laws were passed, only after which the document was discussed, although the obligation to create a water economy base was still in force since '95. A year. The second procedural remark is the water-economic base of the Croatian government almost in complete secrecy has won and sent to the Parliament without any public debate on it, public participation in the construction and adoption of such documents can only contribute to improving the proposed solutions, in addition, it is not only about secrets but about the general good and it would be good until the second reading we heard that it will also be carried out in the areas of water-economic departments. Further comments would be made, the first strategy has set too modest targets. That the objectives are modestly set is visible and through the necessary financial means to achieve it. Overall, the strategy provides for an amount of investment of 3.15 billion euros for all water economy species belonging to the other system and defence against floods, water supply of the population and the construction of sewage systems and waste water treatment devices. The amount for all these purposes is less than the estimated amount of waste management under the waste management strategy that we have accepted, which this Parliament has accepted, which is moving around 3.25 billion euros. Anyone who is otherwise referred to in the problem can clearly see nonsensus in these assessments. The modestly set objectives are obviously the result of a compromise, not a reflection of the real needs, but such important documents must maintain real needs, especially at this time when Croatia is expected to join the countries of the European Union and when we will be forced to achieve those goals that Europe will set before us, i.e. I have wrongly said, which we ourselves will put before us for Europe's sake. Hiding real needs will only make it more difficult for the situation, which is particularly important to highlight, significantly weaken the negotiating platform of our negotiators, which will have to move in the envisaged financial frameworks and strategies and also achieve the required European legislation. The possibility of achieving certain transition periods, the achievement of the assistance Europe offers will be significantly reduced. This is best seen from the following quotes on page 157: "The proposed income dynamic ensures a relatively moderate development policy in the first investment cycle by 2020, an increased increase in investment in development and faster achievement of standards and conditions for EU member states has been delayed for the second investment cycle when more favourable economic conditions are expected." This reminds me of a time when the future was promised to be bright. The question arises whether the strategic goal of our country can be to build a public drain system with just 50% of the population from 2,000 to 15,000 in 2020, to clean up waste water, and to make more than 35% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to ensure that the sewerage system is connected to only 60% of the population by 2020. For the illustration of Germany, it has been connected to the wastewater treatment system of 90%, Denmark 80, the Netherlands 95, Austria 80, England 82, with today's situation, and more information on the population's connection with us is 8 years old, and we expect the results to be much more modest in 15 years. None of the measures and projected activities have defined the time dynamics of implementation, but are only mentioned at the end of the period, the possibility of monitoring the achieved objectives, so it is practically impossible to leave space with different interpretations. At least essential short- and medium-term time frames should be defined here, rather than focusing solely on the situation of 2020 and 2035 as the years set out in the strategy. In the strategy there are no clearly set deadlines for which it is developed, so to protect against harmful... talks about 2035, while water protection is discussed in 2020, and water use is not spoken of for any year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The strategy should monitor the same period of time for all types of water economy. At the beginning of the document, the introductory part in which the starting point and general objectives of the strategy should be described is missing. The strategy mentions the division of state and local waters, however, the amendments to the Water Law and the Water Finance Act have been abolished. The strategy should be consistent with the law if it has already been voted earlier with what is happening in the same period of time. Proposal for financing of the flood defense system the waters of particular national interest through a water contribution do not correspond to the adopted amendments and additions to the Water Economy Financing Act that the contribution funds can benefit from for all water streams. Chapter 5 which speaks of costs and financing, rather than talking about the overall needs for the strategic development of the water sector, introduces business costs of Croatian Waters and public authorities. The strategy as a document should not analyse the structure of income and expenditure of a public institution but should focus on how and instruments to achieve the intended objectives. It says on page 109 that today between 15% and 20% of the population is using so-called ". The local plumbing. This is also to increase their degree of accession by joining them, as 76% of the population of Croatia is being merged into the public water supply system today to cover the entire population by reducing local water supply to the local water supply system. Or that according to this data, only 4% of the population uses their own water wells, tanks and similar things that can't be clear because we all know that's not the case. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There are two scenarios of the development of the flood protection system. The percentages of system functionality from 70% according to scenario A by 2010 and 90% by 2025 are mentioned. The document does not explain what represents 100% protection and what these percentages are derived from. It is also not defined whether by the end of the second investment cycle ending in 2035 the system is 100% functional or remains 90%. It is also unknown that it is 70% and that 90% of the functionality, as determined, is whether it represents the functionality of the systems created or represents a degree of flood protection. If it is a flood protection system, it is not clear again by which criteria and methodology these percentages are defined. The guidelines for the development of the flood defence system are too general and are difficult to see from them which measures and investments need to be realised to achieve strategic objectives as ultimately the strategic objective is not even defined. When using water, certain segments are over-emphasised while some are neglected. In addition to the use of drinking water, all other uses of water are marginally mentioned. For example, the development of water use for electricity production is written on only two short parameters and with no concrete information on page 111. Inland waterways are described in only one paragraph without any specific data. In Chapter V, that's what I have to tell you. According to estimates, we still have about 3 billion kilowatts of electricity we could build on the waterways. Chapter V of the Flood Protection Plan defines the investment cycle until 2035, no years have been mentioned for water use and no time limits are needed to achieve it until the deadline for water protection is defined by 2020. The total amount of investment in development is about 24 billion kuna or 3.15 billion euros. This amount represents an investment in new facilities, therefore in the development, as the strategy assesses the unsatisfactory state of the existing water supply systems and the public disposal system of the amount to be invested to the full functionality of the system is not listed anywhere. And it's also about the huge investments they make in the strategy they're not listed. What impact will have on the total costs of the separation of users for water services can only be assumed. Namely, what it's about. You know that the losses in the water supply systems in Croatia are about 45% and clearly that even in existing water supply systems, you need big investments not only by building some new systems. For the development of water supply systems, the amount of public disposal from the circus is estimated at EUR 21 billion, and half of these funds are provided for in the guarantee, while half of the estimated funds of the circus are estimated to be 9.5 billion from other sources, as stated above, the remaining amount will be provided by municipal companies and their founders. The way in which this funding is implemented has already proved to be quite ineffective and its further application will certainly not produce an adequate result, thus investing more in less developed areas that have not yet developed systems. Less developed areas with a small population and relatively large investments per capita will not be able to secure the amounts necessary for their own participation. To make development models and define the amounts of compensation necessary as it is made in Chapter V makes no sense. If you do not know how nearly half the funds will be provided. The possibility of financing the construction of credit funds is also mentioned, even mentioning the amount of interest and the period of commencement. Credit under conditions is certainly not a place in such a document unless it is some already agreed loan that would be able to address the problem of financing the entire needs of this strategy. Investment dynamics are only given for flood defense systems. I would like to finally say if, therefore, the comments of the HSN Club were analysed and incorporated into this document which was note bene started working on this document in 2001 when I was the director and by 2004 was over 80%, not to say 90% of this whole thing, so I can't be too critical. I'm only critical of what's new and it's valorising financial resources and investment dynamics. So if this is accepted and analysed and some new suggestions are given on this issue then the HNS Club will vote for this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57126	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Marco Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57127	Mr. Vice-President, the esteemed representative Marasovic stated in his presentation: "The assessment of investments in the flood defence system has been unrealized." Of course that's not true. The strategy contains only investments from the state budget and resources of the Croatian Waters and not the investment plan of local and regional self-government units and other space users such as users of the space where erosion or space is expressed where the melioration disposal is required. Therefore, the strategy cannot solve the affairs of other users but only those that are being solved through this state programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57128	Thank you. That's his opinion. Here's the correction of Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57129	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of the respected representative Marasovic. He says in his debate that during his direct work in Croatian waters, 80 to 90% of this strategy has already been made available to us on the table of the proposed strategy. But I'm saying that's not true at all. Mr. Marasovic, you are not in the district of Bezovica, i.e. in the City of Zagreb where 11 thousand and 500 inhabitants live. Not one metre of master's water, not a single water supply that's been drawn from the projects by three waterships. Not a single leaky station. Today, only 20% of water supplies are covered in this area and I disagree and it is not true that you said you did 80 to 90%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57130	Thank you very much. This isn't about the specifics of what anybody did, it's about the basics, the fundamentals of the water economy. Therefore, the correction was not in line with the Rules of Procedure, and it cannot be disputed that he contributed to the work, we cannot even assess it here, the water economy base, and it is assumed that for the last term of office it was worked on drawing up this water management strategy. So it's not about concrete things, it's about strategic things. So let's not talk, but within this agenda point, we can't talk about concrete things. Thank you very much. Let's move on. It is the turn of the HSS club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here are a few sentences related to this Water Management Strategy in front of the Croatian Peasant Party club. At first, I want to say that I am glad that, here, the promoter adopted the proposal that we also made on the parent board, which is that this strategy goes into two readings. Because here, I'd say, through a long debate on the parent board, we've found that it needs certain finishing and I think it's a good thing that this is what I've heard from the promoter accepted. I think it is necessary to say here that this document has been long awaited and that we must all be pleased that it is finally before us. This is an extremely important document, and certainly it's been made by some people who say it lasted from the year 98 over, here it finally arrived here before us. It's not good that we had some of these shortcomings, so I'll also have the reasons why we suggested this second reading, which is more so I would say in a way and technical nature, but they're good to be fixed, to change and to have one document that I believe will satisfy us all. So I think it's in the very part, if you've looked at the headlines a little bit more where we have that we're bringing a base or strategy here. I think here it was later inserted, given that our new regulation on this part requires that it be a strategy. The question is when it was initiated and by which act and whether the dynamics of the production were accompanied by institutional changes in the area and whether the act already being taken was adapted to legislative changes or vice versa. It seems to me that he read more in detail this document that it was the least involved in his work, which I must stress, the resolution ministry that was needed and I believe that until the second reading will be a little more involved. Methodology based on the 2003 Regulation on the Construction of the Water Economy Base of Croatia or on amendments to the Water Act, Article 19 I think it's important to stress that because I believe that by the second reading, we will coordinate this and that this document will be in line with the new law. Fundamental amendment or addition of the Water Act or perhaps the basic concept of a future regulation in the development of a strategy that the Minister must adopt within a year until the amendments and additions of the Law are adopted. By virtue of Article 127 of the amendments to the Law of 12 months 2005, all sublaws adopted by the Law on Waters of 1995 and thus by the above-mentioned Regulations have been left in force. Article 129 of amendments and additions determines that the Minister will, within one year, prescribe the content and procedure of the strategy. Although I am based on Article 20. The Water Management Strategy Act must comply with the changes made in the water system, economic and social development of the pre-mentioned 2003 Regulation. Article 3 also states that the strategy is amended and complemented every 6 years. It doesn't seem very meaningful to me to bring this act now, and it's a good thing we have time to coordinate this part. It may be even more important to point out if this whole strategy is more detailed that part of the documents in which it was done are somehow time-consuming behind us and that it is extremely important that we keep up with new documents in the strategy, with new data that would contribute to this strategy that I believe us to be as good as possible. It would be good to mention in this document the waste management strategy that the Parliament brought to me in 14.10.2005, which seems to be a good document and I think we all agreed on that. And it would be good if, in some parts of each other, they were complemented in particular in the chapter of this Strategy in the area of the environment. As for the reference year, which serves as a database in this document, I think we may not have a clear definition here, and it would be sad to bring a national strategy in 2006 based on what I already said, which is unscheduled data. So we have on page 94, the strategy states that the level of integration in public water supply systems is 76% and the level of integration to new drain systems is 43%. I think it would be important to mention and define exactly what year it is and then say that this is the reference data that we are entering in that part. All this seems unnecessary to me, and so in this direction we should ask the Proposer to objectively what he is and accepted to go to another reading, but if in the second reading, I would ask us most sincerely, not to welcome the same document but to really make all these remarks, all of these I would say concrete things change, change and harmony. And maybe if we're not going to make it within that shortest time, this document that we're hoping for, but to leave ourselves enough time to actually bring this document in the right sense of the word, as one document that can then really take a long time. I think there's some details about the metricity of things where we go from certain principles, and I'd say we may not have talked about those principles enough and we haven't defined them enough. Perhaps one of the important things in the strategy itself is that we will adhere to a certain economic price and question the economic price of water, however, and we are adapting ourselves to certain standards that are in the European Union. But then there is a question if we are going towards the economic price that I say for me is disputable in that part of how much it is and what our people can pay for certain parts I think the strategy should first focus on the part that we do with that part and that is the harmonisation towards the European Union of a certain part that we have when we talk about I would tell our waters, when we talk about our systems where we come to numbers to lose almost 46% of the water in our systems. When we know and compare it with European Union data, then we see that it is somewhere between 7 and about 16, 17%. I think this is the kind of data that, I think, is a certain assessment that certainly leads us to question whether it's possible that we're going towards an economic price before we define that here I'd say this loss is going to be a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot smaller, and then we can define certain things. I have to be here even though it's not the most direct in this strategy mentioned, but I have to look back here with a few sentences of what's going on right now with us. This is where we bring the strategy, i.e. We have it in our first reading. I believe that we will do it well until the second reading with all the corrections that are absolutely necessary. But here I want to point out, and I think it's about this when we're passing certain laws, certain strategies are then issued certain regulations, and then those regulations are most directly affecting our people. So we had this case with here's the latest water contribution regulation that was passed a few days ago. It was issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it is the most direct way to affect our citizens because it is an additional imposition even though when we had the Water Economy Financing Act here, the Water Act we had promises that there would be some reductions on certain segments. Since the Secretary of State is here, I remember that it was a very clear speech. Especially when we mentioned certain burdens relating to freshwater fisheries. It was a very clear belief. We all agreed that what we have to pay in this section relating to certain contributions, water contributions to freshwater fisheries is too much of a burden in the past in that part. It was clear that when we passed the Law that it would be reduced, it would be regulated. That freshwater fishing is one branch that is extremely important to us, which is virtually waterless and without everything that goes along with it. Unfortunately, now that the regulation has been passed, here's the clearest calculations that tell us this, here we have with the people on the ground talking. They have received solutions in a certain way and they predict i.e. In these solutions, it says that these burdens are higher than 30 percent. I'd be very glad if Mr. Shirac was right... If it hadn't, it would have moved its head that it wasn't true I would have been happy about it, but here are the beliefs of us days, and especially what is unequivocal and what is completely clear, and that is the water contribution that must be paid per cubic metre for new buildings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, here we have done one calculation of how much this is for the farm. For one farm, 20 times 4 is 52,000 kuna, and when we talk about these things at all, we think it's an additional imposition that's impossible to endure especially in these conditions when we have, I'd say big problems with spatial plans and when people just so we can put them somewhere and have the possibility of building one such object in agriculture then here before they can get a construction permit they have a burden of water contribution that is insufferable to them right now and I think we'll have to make some changes there too. Here we will support as Club of this Proposal Strategy. I believe that together we will all contribute to the second reading that this long-awaited act will come into the best of editions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57132	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57133	My dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club considers this to be good material and a good basis in order to conduct a broad public debate and to adopt a Water Management Strategy as a proposal for a water economy basis in another reading. We are therefore pleased that the applicant has accepted that this is indeed not the first reading, but rather that it is the establishment of a proposal for this document for a broad public debate. Because the very observations on some of the committees on which NGOs participated, but also in the media, it could be read that indeed civil society has observations that they were not involved in writing this water management strategy, so the SDP Club proposes not only to do so, that it should be directed to another reading but also to make sure that, in this period between the first and second readings, a general and broad public debate on the proposal of this document which we consider extremely important for Croatia as a whole, but also for every citizen in Croatia, since it is a matter of satisfying some basic life traffic of Croatian citizens, such as the availability of accession to the public water supply system. On the other hand, the satisfaction of one general social interest, which is to protect the environment from harmful action, water action. Since there is such an interest, I think the Proposer should be willing to organise such a wide circle of public debates. Of course we have the same observation of this order as it seemed. So that we first passed two laws showing up these days to significantly determine the position of investors in Croatia, and then we are discussing a water management strategy, so perhaps it would be good if the proposer were to point out that once the water management strategy in the Croatian Parliament was adopted, he would consider or propose to amend these two laws that we adopted in the 12th month if the water management strategy therefore gave some solution to any need to amend those two laws. We are in a situation today, and the predecessors also said that we have huge needs in this segment, therefore, from increasing and ensuring a satisfactory availability for the public water supply system from the construction of the drain, from the defence against the harmful effects of water, and that we have exceptional or modest or small revenues for these, for these purposes. And here we have heard that over the next 20 years it will be necessary for these purposes to separate or invest, not to single out, but to invest somewhere around 25 billion kuna. Unfortunately, this strategy does not fully respond to the resources of the 25 billion kuna, and it would not be good to perceive that the source of the funds will be the only and only water compensation, i.e. taxpayers, that they will have to allocate those 25 billion, taxpayers as citizens. We also feel that it was not good, therefore, to pass the Water Economy Financing Act in a single reading. We warned then that it would be good for this Law to go into two readings, and in particular we are not satisfied that this Law predicted that the Government of the Republic regulation would determine the amount of water contribution that is coming these days, the first solutions were issued, and unfortunately it proved that what we had been discussing was fully justified. First of all, we in the SDP have an objection to the amount of water contribution as a whole, and in particular we have an objection to some of the facilities to which a water contribution must now be paid and, for example, no municipal contribution is paid. Because we could compare these two tax revenues as something based on which they would be the same base. So, unlike communal contributions, some new facilities, such as roads, products, telecommunications sewers and other open buildings, are being introduced here. And other open buildings are, for example, playgrounds, sports facilities on which water contribution is now charged. Unfortunately, local self-government units do not have the ability to charge a municipal contribution to the telecommunications sewerage, although we are witnessing that numerous cities have been dug up, overrun by what HT has done before, before privatisation has entered. They didn't even take care of what they were doing, so you've got a lot of involved cops all over our cities as a result of the construction of TK sewers. Now this government regulation allows Croatian waters to charge water contribution to future TK sewers. I personally think it's good to charge the TK sewerage a water contribution, but then it should give such a possibility to local self-government units. But I don't think it's a good idea to charge a water contribution, for example, to build a water line and build a sewer, because here it's streaming from one source to another source. Or, for example, we find it totally inappropriate that the water contribution is charged on construction of playgrounds, tennis courts, football courts and everything else that is charged here. For example, it is envisaged that 25 kuna per square metre is charged in the city for the construction of sports facilities, open sports facilities. In zone B is 15 kuna and in zone C 5 kuna. It's going to be an extra blow, and we're going to have to do it especially at the moment when I have to build a large number of such objects to have a significant negative impact. Unfortunately, this regulation does not provide for any investors to be freed from water contribution payments. So for example, any future school that is built on it will be charged with a water contribution in a very significant amount that is moving, depending on where it will be built, from 25 to almost 100 kuna. Now imagine if we need to build some 300 schools, if we said it would cost 12 billion kuna investment, now we're going to have to pay around another billion kuna of states, so we're going to have to pay a water contribution to those investments. I think that, in this regulation, it should be defined, as defined in the Law on the Community Economy, and then in the rules, or regulations, which are made by units of local self-government, that the water contribution is not paid for, for example, what is the investment from the budget. Because if we pay the water contribution to what the investment is, which is built from the budget then it is practically possible to make a transfer from budget to budget, the budget of Croatian Waters, only here will we not say that it is a transfer from the state budget to the Croatian Waters budget from the basis of the transfers, but it will be a collection of the water contribution. So it's not a neck, it's a neck. But we have come to a further significant burden on such investments and to reduce the possibility of building such facilities for public use, since in the future we have to pay a water contribution to build it. This applies not only to schools, but also to roads, so on roads, railways, bridges, tunnels, so we'll have to pay a water contribution in the future, or pay from the day before yesterday. I think Thursday's starting to count. We'll pay, which means it'll all reduce our ability to build these facilities. For example, 7 kuna per square metre of water contribution road will be paid in Zagreb. In the rest of Croatia, 2 kuna will be paid and 1 kuna will be paid on the coast, i.e. on the islands. So, I think we should first of all adopt a strategy that based on this strategy should define how many needs we need. That's defined, so that's 25 billion. But after that, we should have defined what sources they were. If in this case, I'm going back to the story of the budget, the source of the budget then I think it's much more transparent to have transfers happen, not to charge it through the collection of water contribution through the investments made from the budget. We also have here the observation of a number of employers and numerous investors that this significantly burdens them with their investment studies. What adds to the even more significant burden of the whole story is that the water contribution must be paid from once. It's not even possible to pay as a communal contribution is paid, which I don't think is just as good. And it is not good that water contribution cannot, for example, be paid in direct investment in some of the buildings financed from construction, from water contribution revenues, as is possible with a municipal contribution. And what's not good, it's not good for you when you charge for example a municipal contribution then you have to bring in a document called a programme of measures to improve the state of the space, it's a four-year program, so you have to bring in a document called a municipal infrastructure building programme, which is an annual document. And if you charge a communal contribution, and you don't do what you planned with those two documents, then the investor from which you charged the municipal contribution has the right to repay those funds. I think that a similar parallel should be withdrawn with a water contribution, so that we know exactly on an annual, medium-term, medium-term, medium-term, programme document that will be financed precisely, whose construction will be financed from such funds and that Croatian waters are then committed unless it is built for no reason, because when the communal contribution is returned, the investor has the right to recover those funds. This will further increase the responsibility of Croatian waters for such collected money on the one hand, and on the other hand we will prevent that money that is strictly collected for the construction of water facilities, transfer and spend on other purposes such as paying the administration in Croatian waters. I therefore propose that the Resort Ministry, i.e. the Government seriously consider this regulation which it has brought, to either withdraw it or to redefine it very nearly, or it would be wiser to suspend its application until at least the moment until a water management strategy is adopted, so that, after that, until we see how much it really takes to implement that strategy, or until we see how the 20, 25 billion kuna will be collected, and what is collected would really be too important to be fully transparently invested, so that whoever pays that water contribution knows where his kuna is going. So I propose, on behalf of the cubes of the SDP, that a broad public debate be held on this important document whose form and content is indeed fully adapted to such a comprehensive, professional and thorough debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57134	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57135	Dear Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Let us, in the name of Cuba, say a few observations regarding the strategy itself and perhaps a few suggestions. As a result of the fact that water wealth is a valuable resource that needs to be managed in the context of sustainable development, it is necessary to strike a balance between the use of resources, certainly with a view to maintaining or maintaining the quality of life, life opportunities, maintaining the quality of drinking water, but certainly to encourage and economic development and protecting nature and the very resources within the whole eco system. Namely, the content of this water-economic base has been processed professional way of managing, managing and protecting water in Croatia. However, we believe that the fundamental lack of a basis is that, in general, agriculture as a significant branch of the economy does not involve in the processing of water protection against harmful activities, means defence against floods and drains, water supply and the resolution of water supply shortages. Let us not forget that agriculture has almost a million and 200 thousand hectares of farmland, i.e. if we look at the total agricultural area, that they practically cover nearly 3 million hectares of land and certainly that agriculture should also have far greater participation in such a water economy. In point 3.2., water protection, in particular in point 3.2.2., flood protection does not show or process any damage caused by floods in agriculture, the situation of flooded agricultural areas is not seen. In addition, point 4.4 of the Guidelines does not provide a constructive approach to addressing existing flood problems in agriculture. In point 3.2.4 of this Annex, the treatment of meliorative discharge shall be carried out. In a satisfactory manner, the state of the disposal system is demonstrated, but there is no need to process the needs for the implementation of the disposal system as not listed in point 4.4 of the Guidelines, the necessary concept of the application of individual necessary systems of basic and detailed disposal and the resolution of excess waters on agricultural surfaces. In point 3.3., the use of water and point 3.1. water supplies has not also been taken into account agriculture. The supply of the population and the water industry has been processed, while the water supply of the agricultural holdings and the problems that exist in this regard is not seen. It also does not specify ways to address these problems in agriculture. Namely, agriculture here is shown to be a self-contaminant, i.e. as one of the possible sources of pollution scattered in that part where agriculture is approached that the pollutant is based on the use of pesticides, based on the use of fertilisation, although agriculture should have far greater significance in the planning of disposal. I must say that as far as pollution is concerned, we can really sleep carefreely, because when it comes to fertilisation in Croatia, we are about 1200, 1300 kilograms of fertiliser use today burn to 360, i.e. we use about 25% of the fertilisers we used 10 years ago, and these are statistics published for 2003, so we can sleep carefreely, there will be no war for sure in the water except for some... situation. Equally when we talk about erosion, when we talk about other problems, it's too little to cover. When we talk about traffic, and it's also about agriculture, where it's said that practically road traffic is 90% involved in pollution, and that's primarily gas emissions. Why in this one strategy is not defined and the use of fuel, bio-fuels of any kind known to be practically less polluting air, and that today Europe's countries are in systems, i.e. water supply systems or drinking water retentions, planning and prohibiting the use of fossil fuels, ordering the use of bio-fuels whether or not bioethanol, I don't know any other fuels, therefore, and here, when talking about a strategy in water-related areas, it should also be taken into account. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: However, in this case, the state of irrigation is shown briefly, while there is no need to show about the needs and possibilities of applying this significant measure. We need to reiterate that we have reduced the irrigated surfaces, that today we are talking about only 7,000 irrigated surfaces, on the other hand, that we are talking about the need to change the structure of production, about more intensive production, therefore we should see what resources are available to us for irrigation on how to deal with it, i.e. in point 4.4. guidelines for irrigation are shown in a global way, but leaving out exactly the part that should point to the orientations relating to the choice of methods and irrigation systems depending on farmed cultures, the size of the production parcels and the available water for irrigation and before I generally finish this segment which is primarily meant the focus has to indicate where the water comes from the economy, first of all I would like to say that the very illustrating the state of fishing, first of all, that the freshwater sector which is primarily representsly displayed, the potential of the potential of this kind of development, i.e. i.e. i.e.e. i.e. i.e. i. i.e. i.e. i.e.e. i. i.e. i. i. i. i.e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i.e.e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i.i Finally, it should be said that the water-economic base is a strategic document and in point 4 of the strategy is not a precise way of institution or expert body to manage and manage existing and future built water-economic facilities and flood recovery systems, draining and irrigation systems. In any case, the strategy in this document should also be defined, since several, on several occasions, emphasized that water management from the state level should still be approached, so it means to one centralisation, then perhaps this detail in one strategy should be seen in a very good way. And certainly here we support that this strategy, i.e. management, water-economic base and strategy goes into another reading and that these problems are certainly embedded, above all in the economic segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57136	Thank you very much. At 13.06, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we've finished discussing the clubs. As we agreed in the meantime to go to another reading, and we have an individual 11 MPs and MPs reported, of course I suggest, I can't do anything, everyone has the right to debate, and with a desire to have a break before the vote that we take into account that there will be another reading and we will see and possibly end this debate until the break, even if the break is a little short. Here's 11 MPs here, so I'll call, who wants to, of course, can argue, and who won't be able to say he's giving up whether he is. It's just a suggestion. Thank you very much. Here we go, Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must stress immediately that I consider this to be one of the more quality documents the government has recently sent to this House of Highs. For me, he is acceptable, but I will still make a few remarks that should be complemented by the second reading in my conviction by all these things. First, what I would point to in the river Drava, especially in this northwestern region of the Republic of Croatia, there are large quantities of underground high-quality drinking water, and it seems to me that in this document, however, along with other ministries, more multidisciplinary and should pay particular attention to the protection of these waters. What's this about? In the area of the Varazdin County there are two water layers for high-quality drinking water, however, in the area not only of the Varazdin County but of all Croatia everywhere where the clay was dug, it was usually dug up to gravel and 50 years old when the consciousness of all our ancestors, part of us disposal and waste management was quite different than today, there was no hydro-insulation, and we have in the area of the Varazdin County conducted tests that showed and proved that these water layers were slowly, but certainly contaminating any of the rains that washed away all that garbage, and there were also some harmful and heavy metals and everything else. That is why I would suggest that this strategy, together with the ministries responsible for the management of waste in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, be told that the Government is unduly late with the adoption of a waste management plan in the Republic of Croatia, which is why I also cannot bring my own implementing documents. Thus, by protecting these waters, we would still provide resources, one of the main resources of the 21st century, that is drinking water. I don't think there's enough writing about it in this document, and I don't think there's any reason why it shouldn't be completed. Another thing I'd like to say for a little while is flood protection. Let's remember in 2002 when the floods flooded through Europe, let's remember last summer when we had floods on the Mura River. Every time there's a flood, then we're all very smart and we're all whining and we're saying that we should invest a lot more money on the plan to sew from the flood. This is not a criticism of Croatian waters, this is a criticism for us sitting in this House of Highers because of the insufficient funds that we give in the budget every year for the plan, i.e. for the protection against floods, especially when it is necessary to build new dikes on one side, one good part of the Varazdin County also does not have enough embankments to protect against high water when snow melts in the Alps and when the River Drava simply has high water. In addition, we are all talking about ecology and sustainable development, and that is a clear thing. I had a chance to see the Drava River's plane footage. Unfortunately, the Drava River is just under the influence of environmentalists and is increasingly healed by chicars, forests, when it comes to high waters, they simply don't have a natural trough where to go and come to floods. It seems to me that in this strategy, this document should speak more of not only of the river Drava, but also of the Sava River and everywhere regular cleansing of gravel applied by the sands that are applied, which is not enough at present, because companies that master these waters simply have legal provisions on one side, on the other hand, have, says in society which is not bad, I think it is positive, we have more and more, stronger and stricter demands of environmental associations, but we need to find some limit that will reconcile on one side that we have the safety of floods that we can use modern flows, that we have the exploitation of those normal in accordance with the laws of both gravel and sand, and that the levels of these waters are normal, that there is no flood on each more water. It seems to me that we will have to, but it seems to me that we should add to this document or to those implementing which they are and which we should finance. Unfortunately, we are aware that even a much richer state than that of Croatia that emerges from a transition such as one Germany had precisely because of the lack of water streams of major problems in 2002. What is the situation with us in Croatia where something about our inertness, something about war and war destruction, and the economic situation in the country have not given attention to just that sort of thing. It seems to me that we're going to have to take more care of it, secure from the budget plus what we need to separate users far more money so I hope that by the second reading some of these remarks will be accepted. When I said multidisciplinaryism, I think that it is precisely about the recovery of these dumps that it has and which pollutes our waters that we should also talk to other ministries, agree and co-financing because that way we will leave better quality drinking water for our successors because it seems to me that Croatia, which is rich in drinking water, still needs to retain that resource and it does not take too much. I need more goodwill and more education than we currently have. Anyway, support for this document to go to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57138	Thank you, counsel. And it's been over three and a half minutes. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's not here either. Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57139	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Republic of Croatia is fortunate to be rich in water, or rather rich in spring water resources. However, no matter how great that wealth may be, it is not inexhaustible on one side and it is not to be said invulnerably, and it is very important to take care of it. Already in the opening part of the proposal for a water economic base of Croatia, the water management strategy from the data given and listed is visible that it is an activity which is in and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition which extends to all there until 1876, that has been suspended for a long time and then, on the basis of what this strategy offers can be accepted with confidence, conviction and assurance that it was done in a way that leaves no doubt. Of course everything is not ideal, it takes both time and effort and, of course, inevitable means. Problems that arise usually or partly revolve in some bewitched circles. Let us only remember the recent debate in this House on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act. Whether or not the land water compensation is not paid because the canals are abandoned or the canals are detached because the land water charge is not paid, i.e. it is not paid more precisely. Allow me to illustrate one of those as I have said to bewitched circles on the example of public water supply. It may be too high to mention that public water supply is a very important factor in citizens' standards, citizens' health and certainly economic progress. About 76% of the population is connected to the public water supply system in Croatia according to the 2002 data contained in this material. Data by county are colorful and it is particularly evident that the information for the city of Zagreb is 96%. Compared to the average of Croatia, this looks good. Yes, but if we take one million inhabitants, then it's 40,000 residents who are not connected to public water supply, which is for our chances a city in the category of big cities. At the same time, the price of water is nowhere near economic but is mostly social. But with such prices, it is easy to conclude that there are large reserves. The second information states from this material that the average losses in the network are 46%, let's take 50%, and that simply means that for each spatial meter of water that reaches the consumer into the network, two should be pushed. Both spent and lost have the same production price. This is what chargeability can be considered to be excellent if it is 75 to 80% and is almost rarely so. This means, in practice, that out of 10 spatial meters of water placed into a network, only 4 are charged eventually when all these losses are refused. And the acceptable values for net losses are 15 to 20% under this strategy and the stricter European criteria are 7 to 15%. There's these big reserves with a note that even a lot richer than us, I can't afford that kind of luxury. That is why we need to resolve this not for the reasons that Europe requires or will require of us, but because we are doing ourselves a great benefit. In order to obtain a complete picture of the public water supply situation, it would be possible to calculate the water price according to the same criteria because there are all kinds of approaches. Only in this way will the principle of solidarity and the principle of social acceptance be applied responsibly. They cannot be equated on one basis with those applicable in the European Union. They can and must gradually reach. I'm going back to a vicious circle that needs to be cut somewhere. I think all of this will help with the application of two laws. One law has passed this Great House, it's an executive law, it'll make it easier to collect from messy salaries. And the second is the announced Sport Act because from price calculations, all sports clubs have to be removed conditionally so that I don't mention anyone in particular and I don't list them. With the correction of some more formal than essential shortcomings, this proposal for the economic basis of the Croatian Water Management Strategy should be accepted without reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57140	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mrs. Alenka's Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57141	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I would like to replicate an esteemed colleague in the section where he said from 96% of the connection to the city's water supply system. So let me tell you that this information is not correct, no matter what it says in this study. In Zagreb, a large number of wildly connected buildings are connected to the water supply system and do not pay for water. I would comment on that in the context of the economic price of water. In fact, we must not start thinking about the economic price in Croatia until we have solved the very two things. One is the loss of water in an outdated water supply network and another is the regular payment or regular connection of objects to the water supply system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57142	... Mr. Stengl, go ahead. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57143	Dear colleagues, those who are wildly connected are the same losses in the network. They're absolute losses in the net. However, there are no excuses for some of the losses in the network. More so, tramways and wandering currents are past. That is why there are technical solutions and so on and so on. The detection of malfunctions, instruments today are much cheaper, much more efficient and more precise. So it's all going to work out. And that's why these reserves are here. And this 96-percent piece of information I found here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57144	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Jagoda Martic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Water is certainly a condition of life on earth and the wealth of a country among other things is measured by how much water is available, and of course what is the quality of that water? In view of the general trend in our planet, water wealth is becoming an increasingly significant potential of a country. The drinking water's getting smaller and the need for it's getting bigger. As a result, it is clear why water today is said to be among other things raw oil of the 21st century. As a general good, water must be the fundamental right of every man. Water is a basic factor in sustainable development because it is a strategic, economic resource. It allows many eco-systems to function and maintain biodiversity. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia lists themselves as good of general interest in the group with sea, airspace, mineral wealth, land, forest and other good and resources. And according to the Water Act, water is a general good that, because of its natural properties, cannot be owned and as a general good, they have the special protection of the Republic of Croatia as stated in Article 3. And precisely because of these positions and destinations in the Constitution and in the law, I believe that the Republic of Croatia in the accession process, the accession negotiations of the European Community should treat Croatia as the primary national interest whose future use should be in the service of satisfaction in the first row of its population. Croatia is fortunate to be included in a group of relatively rich countries where water problems are not yet tightened and water resources are not currently a limiting factor of development. According to the world's first water supply report in the world published by UNESCO in Paris, which included 178 countries, Croatia is ranked fifth in Europe for the wealth of water resources, and 42nd in the world. In order to preserve such a situation, it is also important for the future to come up with a policy and strategy for the regulation, use and protection of water resources, which should be based on a concept of sustainable development. We have just one such strategic document in front of us. So this proposal of the water economy basis of Croatia, or a water management strategy, whose purpose is to achieve the objectives I spoke about earlier. The strategy is a fundamental long-term water sector plan document defining the criteria and priorities of water management, starting with the obligation to fully protect the environment and achieve general economic development. I personally believe that it is a truly quality document which has established the existing situation and identified the problems of the water and water economic area and gave guidance to future action to achieve the objectives set, namely: the establishment of a balance between the promotion of economic development and water use and the creation of a prerequisite for improving water and the environment. One of the major problems is the unsatisfactory level of the population's involvement in the public water supply system and in the public drain system. One of the basic tasks of the water economy is the protection of human health and involves providing water for drinking such quality that does not endanger human health. In the judgment of the protection of human health within the framework of water management, it is primarily based on the association of the population to the public water supply system and the public disposal system because basic hygiene and health standards mean the quality of drinking water and the quality of bathing water largely depends on the construction and efficiency of the water-communal system. And the situation, unfortunately, isn't very good. The average supply of water from public water supply systems is 76%, with these data varying from county to county and not only between individual cities and municipalities within the county. A large part of the population outside public water supply, as stated in the strategy, is supplied with some 24% water through the so-called so-called water. local water pipelines in Croatia have several hundred. The problem is that unlike public water lines where a system of continuous water quality control has been established in local water pipelines, a water quality control system is not established but is done occasionally according to the user’s assessment. In this way, the level of protection of the population against hydraulic epidemics that consume water from local water lines and their percentage is not small, is significantly reduced. This is why one of the guidelines proposed by this strategy is the gradual integration of local water lines into the public water supply system. This would also increase the level of supply of the population with water, as well as the level of safety, the health of the population. The situation is even worse when the population joins the public drain system, which is only 43%. In particular, the unfavourable state of construction of municipal infrastructure in smaller settlements means up to 10,000 inhabitants in which public discharge systems are mainly not built. Most of the polluted waste water flows from the public drain system to natural receivers and thus threatens the good water condition. In view of the age of the sewerage system in cities, it can be assumed that most sewerage systems are to a more significant extent waterproof. In the area where the quality of groundwater is mentioned, a constant microbiological pollution of fecal origin is already present at some sources. The cause of this phenomenon is not stated, but I assume that one of the causes of such a situation is just not sufficiently constructed a system of municipal infrastructure. One of the major problems is the great loss of water. The situation then is not satisfactory on prevention of floods, and Croatia is found to be quite vulnerable to floods. The causes of this poor condition are higher, and the financial resources and way of funding water are undoubtedly one of the most important and therefore I agree with all those who have said that the strategy, i.e. from the strategy, is not really clearly defined the resources needed to finance all the things that are found to be actually needed to be done in some period until 2025, i.e. 2030. It has been concluded that the water price does not cover the total costs and, in most cases, the full costs are maintained by the system, resulting in insufficient maintenance of the system and low reliability of the water supply. A gradual introduction of the economic price of water is proposed. Now, of course, that raises the question whether social policy should be introduced through the price of water. According to some indicators, the four-member family in the European Union pays monthly between 550 and 600 kuna water consumption, with us at around 150 kuna. However, we must not lose sight of the standard of target in the countries of the European Union and what it is like with us. In a situation where an average Croatian citizen barely puts an end to the end and is having difficulty discussing the establishment of an economic water price due to the non-payment of basic directors. How many times in the sessions and city heads and councils discussed the need to raise the price of water, in order to eventually give up these decisions, because in the end the awareness of what opportunities most citizens of the Republic of Croatia live on. The economic price leads to yes, but in order for it to be achieved, it is necessary to meet the conditions in a society that will allow citizens such a standard that payment of the director will not pose a more significant problem. And in the end, I would just point out that I believe, as some before me have said, that the deadlines should be mandatory in this strategy, means to specify the deadlines in which all those measures and activities that are proposed, or which have been established to be done and implemented. Because if this isn't done then I'm afraid this quality document will otherwise remain just a taste of good wishes and intent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57146	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Jurassic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here, I'll try to stick to your suggestions and make the most of these few words I'm going to say. I believe this is a document that is very important to him and that Croatian waters and the competent ministry have mostly joined both professionally and seriously. So I see the former director has said that he's been working on it for years and he's been on this document since the '90s. The strategy is not an abstract document, and on the other hand it is not as concrete as some colleagues have said, and also a colleague, Marasovic, in the sense that it should be more concrete, because this would mean that it is already set, that it is going, that it is descending to the level of the programme or certain policies. The strategy is something else. And I think the strategy in its entirety is seen as well, quality and professionally well-conceived. I have certain objections, so I'll try to bring some out. In any case from the strategy, it does not go from, and it is good, not from existing legislation, but from, by adopting this strategy, there will be certain changes in legislation regulated by the water sector, meaning Water Act, the Water Economy Financing Act, and only in the Law on the municipal economy. I think that the strategy should also provide answers when it comes to protecting and preserving water as a natural resource and on the rational use of water with priority and emphasis on water supply, i.e. drinking water does not diminish the importance of water, i.e. water resources when it comes to the development of the economy in agricultural production, etc., protection from harmful water action. We were convinced a month and a half ago when the area of the Cetina region... , Sinj, Oven, etc. I'm only talking about Dalmatia where it's going to take a lot of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She should, the strategy should and she is trying to define the financial framework. But we can't go into detail and talk about what resources would be. But that's not a strategy anymore, that's something else. And I'm certainly going to point out what's important to me, and that's a matter of privatisation. I don't think anyone's ever talked about this question before, so I'm going to try to make some kind of statement of what's been written here and make my own comments. The area of the water economy, i.e. water supply and draining is an area that I am normally interested in, working long as the director of the "Sinj" water pipeline, and I believe that certain ideas that have come from the group of Croatian plumbers, my recent colleagues that have been well received and that this has been a good way for us who have worked or worked on concrete things, that these proposals, meaning from local self-government units, cities, municipalities, municipal societies, that they have been well received and I think, would point out that as one of the better quality of this strategy. I mentioned privatisation earlier, and we are witnessing that we are on some, that we are in the era of globalisation and the approximation of Croatia to the European Union and at all in a global process and it is certainly the interest of world corporations, it is the interest of world capital to invest where it can draw profits from. And first of all what, when it comes to the strategy itself, we need to put emphasis on, means to take clear and precise views on the privatisation of the water sector, i.e. water supply and disposal as such. And I think that's the key to all of this. We need to protect the water, but I think that in the long run, if private, if the water sector were privatised that we could also take this strategy and protect water, conservation, etc., that we could question it. Because these are things that are connected to each other. I can say what is stated here that, because we all know that the situation in Croatia, that the municipal sector, is public when it comes to the water supply that is in public ownership, the ownership of local self-government units and that the current Law on the municipal economy is a possible privatisation. When it comes to water supply, I believe that the water supply itself should be excluded in some way from the communal part and that the issue of water supply and disposal should be primarily treated by the Water Act and, thus, given the importance and long-term guarantee of quality water supplies for all of Croatia, for all our citizens. My second observation concerns, when it comes to municipal societies and what should be sanctioned by legislation, and that units of local self-government do so, that municipal societies should rest on the principle of clean activity when it comes to water supplies. In other words, I cannot deal with everything and everything, as is now the case in many water lines throughout Croatia. He would certainly point out that it was necessary and that I do not agree with my colleague Marasovic that he should not have talked about the economic price of water in this strategy. That's exactly what it is. Namely, the basic setting here, from which is the strategy that the economic price of water should be economical at Croatia's level, and not on a particular system, and it is good to introduce one principle of solidarity in these certain areas which are economically and more important helps, and also to the Dalmatian Zagora where I come from. And final. I believe that water protection is well-conceived, well-defined, that it should be rounded up and that it is in the strategy to round up municipal societies, and that municipal infrastructure should be owned by units of local self-government and cannot be subject to privatisation and that we need in the strategy itself when it comes to water supply to clear, precise attitudes, even more clearly than they are defined in the strategy itself in this proposal which is ahead of us, on the issue of privatization of the water sector, because this is not a privatisation of certain economic activity but is a question of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57148	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57149	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If one of the basic tasks of the water economy is the protection of human health, and we are facing a European Union road that includes, among other things, taking over the fundamental European principles of water management and planning, we must not ignore our own specificities by looking at all this together. The strategy particularly highlights the problem of globalisation and privatisation in the water sector, i.e. the advantages and disadvantages of the two vipolarised concepts of water service provision. I'll warn you of some general things, but they're instructive enough not to make mistakes like others did. Croatia is relatively rich in clean drinking water. Real quantities of water wealth in Croatia are not known enough, this specifically refers to groundwater. We heard it in fifth place in Europe. Water is a condition of life on earth and must not become just strategic raw materials or a commercial product. It is one of the real and fundamental indicators of real state sovereignty. It is no wonder that the united nations in 2003 placed the topic of water at the heart of the reflection and declared the period from 2005 to 2015 as a decade of drinking water with the aim of achieving the Millennium Declaration's objectives, including half the number of those who do not have access to clean and drinking water and sanitary facilities by 2015. Because according to the United Nations report around the middle of this century, the worst case scenario is that there will be water shortages in 60 countries with 7 billion people or at least 48 countries with 2 billion people. Today, the world is growing into a movement that is going towards finally and formally recognising human right to water as an inalienable right, because as every man has the right to health care and education at his birth, he has the right to water as well. Access to such basic goods must not be a matter of choice and even less of purchasing power. Water is a gift from the Creator and the common good of mankind. The problem of availability and supply of drinking water is probably one of the greatest problems in the modern world. Water access has been monitored throughout history, and local wars are being fought today, and in our time we can already talk about a latent conflict so as not to say war on water, and victims are poor countries in charge and the poorest layers of society. This initiative of mine is not motivated, perhaps someone will tell selfish national interests, national interests, but solidarity with the poorest in their own country. It is motivated by a strong feeling of inter-generational solidarity so that the water is fairly accessible to everyone, not that this common treasure is a source of unfair wealth to the richest and future conflicts. Because let's not forget, in the South African Republic, the introduction of water benchmarks... there's been a conflict if someone wants water to have to pay in advance. In Bolivia, a general strike, in Argentina privatisation in the late '80s and a water pipeline in the capital is sold for indemnity by scandal and bankruptcy to the famous American giant Enronim. In Manila, Philippines, water was available for several hours a day, surpassing the purchasing power of poor families. In Ghana, the doubled water price after privatisation, and numerous conflicts after privatisation and rising water prices broke out in Paraguay, Panama, Brazil, Peru, Colombia, India, Pakistan, Hungary, England. Here is just a few of these notes for what awaits us in the future and I support this plan document and I pray and this strategic document and I want it to get its own improvements in the second reading to learn something from history, and that our future and future of our children and all those who will live here in Croatia on water, the availability of water will not be as we had the opportunity to see in the aforementioned countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57150	Thank you very much. It's Madam Representative Ruža Lelic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I especially support this proposed strategy which I think is made very systematically to depart from the state that is now and to propose the measures to be taken, and also with the plan to certainly implement and carry out the activities. Far-reachingly, I think that no question is as important as the issue of water and water supply and generally water wealth, when we speak in the world, whether in Croatia or not, although here we are by water indicators, we are good here. I would also like to say that in the European Parliament, the Council of Europe Assembly at this last session in January, which I participated in, was precisely the theme "European contribution to improving water management", which led to an interesting and professional debate and resulted in the adoption of Recommendation 1731 on the subject and in 12 points of the recommendation was addressed to the Council of Europe's Committees and it was pointed out that water management, meaning water management, it is an important element for sustainable development of Europe and which they must deal with, they recommend continuously and coherently, meaning all of them, by parliamentarians, from governments, local and regional authorities, international organisations, scientists, then the private sector, NGOs, meaning in one word, all citizens of Europe having in mind and the European Charter on Water Economy adopted by the Council of Europe in late 2001. It is certainly nice and good to hear that Croatia is 30th in the world and 3rd in Europe by water resources, and it is indeed one of our exceptional natural resources that we do not say real wealth and treasure. Of course, this resource needs to be managed in a refinel manner, it is necessary to remove inequalities in water supply, but also by draining which will certainly contribute to the preservation of health to one social equality, but also to justice and security, but will also help both general and economic development, but will also help fully protect the environment. In the context of this concept of sustainable development and water management, a balance should be established between the use of water resources to improve living conditions and promote economic development, as well as the protection of water in the maintenance of their natural functions and characteristics. All of this certainly requires one multi-sectoral approach. I'd like to say that actually 1.2 billion people in the world have no access to drinking water, and 2.6 billion have no basic infrastructure to meet basic hygiene needs. In the Millennium objectives of the European Union, the right to meet these needs is meant by drinking water and to meet the basic hygiene needs to be considered a fundamental and fundamental human right. When we talk about Croatia, then I would say that the average supply of water to the population from public water supply systems is about 76%, that's the 2002 data that we made significant progress compared to, say, '90. when that percentage was 63%, and certainly it is about 85 to 90% which would bring us closer to the European average. The average level of supply differs from county to county, from place to place so that it is in Zagreb or Istria about 96%, and here is Bilogorska County with 31% if it told its County of Vukovar-Srijemska then the percentage is somewhere on the level of Croatia, but it is important to point out that only 19% of the population in our country drinks the right water and it is therefore extremely important that the state budget provides for the construction of a regional water pipeline of Eastern Slavonia that would be for Vukovar-Srijem County, for Brod-Posavisk, but also for part of Osijek-Baranja County, which would be invested around 400 million kuna and I say that only 19% of the correct water means the justification of this procedure and the good procedure of the Government that recognised it. A large part of the population is also supplied via local water lines, this data suggests that it is about 15 to 20%, and that is exactly where I come from in this part of the county plant, that they practically have water lines except for one exception, but they are all connected to this local water line and still use about 50 wells that are really being examined, but all this means makes it difficult to supply the right drinking water. I especially find it interesting that only 290 settlements that were carried out here have built a sewer system, and only 107 or 37% of them have a special wastewater treatment device, we see how much work is ahead of us. And that's why I still can't not say that it's in the state budget not to express my satisfaction that here's the city of Županja for the first time won 5 million kuna for the construction of the drain system, but also 2 and a half million kuna for protection against... It would also be important to say that the European Commission has also decided that these programmes that can be used in front of access funds, that it is decentralised and that we will actually implement these programmes ourselves, which is certainly government recognition, but also recognition of our administration, and often we say that we have not prepared enough, that we are not able to do so, this information is speaking exactly the opposite, and I believe that then many will run with their projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'd like to point out for a little while is that this water loss is what's at 46% is really one huge loss, and that's why we see it here, too, and there can be water, that the water is expensive, if we have 46% of the estimated water loss. That's why there's a difference, because water is sometimes big, but sometimes it's also a burden on the public budget. We would still look back at the water supply, so we have a total of 2 thousand 415 kilometers and a local thousand and 642 as a defensive embankment, and here I am also glad that we have a European Commission gift of 3.2 million euros that will be used to edit that channel network that will certainly not reduce us, those terrible images that we look at floods often in our country. It would certainly look back here, and many colleagues have talked about privatisation and the strategy is about privatisation, the negative consequences of this privatisation, my opinion is that privatisation in this system should not be but only concessions. And in the end, I will certainly support this strategy that will certainly contribute to one rational use and the preservation of this extremely important natural wealth, as we hear it will go to another reading and certainly even possible shortcomings will be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57152	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57153	Thank you very much. In her debate, Mrs Lelic said that the water line of eastern Slavonia should be built to preserve water resources. Of course, we all agree that water resources should be preserved, but when the budget was voted on and the amendments to the budget for this year were also an amendment to the Eastern Slavonia water line. However, Mrs. Lelic did not support the amendment, so then this debate seems to me to actually be a flossule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57154	This is a strategy, so it's on a long-term basis. Answer, Mrs. Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57155	I don't know exactly what amendment I mean, but I said it was good to go to the regional water line of Eastern Slavonia that is in this government's program and not only to preserve water resources but to improve and increase the number of population that will drink the right water, because it's characteristic of this area that water has, but that water is bacteriologically correct, but it's not correct by composition and it doesn't satisfy the regulation, and I don't know exactly what amendment you mean, but your regional water line of Eastern Slavonia is in the program of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57156	Thank you very much. Mr. Krono Peronja. He's gone. Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57157	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first I will say that I will support this strategy and thank God that she has finally seen the light of day. I am also happy that, on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Proposer has accepted our position and everyone else, that this strategy as one long-term strategic document goes to another reading in order to respect all proposals and opinions, and I believe that there are them in this House and so we get one extremely good document. Of course, this strategy does not answer all the current issues and all the problems that burden the water economy. But it gives very clear guidance on what and how to do in the mentioned economic branch. In the word it is the basic long-term planning document of water management in Croatia and that is what should be accepted in any case. However, many participants in this debate today, and even on boards, as we see from these written documents, as well as many ecological associations and all those interested in this issue, have said about the need to bring our strategy into line with European legislation, with European strategies. Although I am Eurofil, and I support the efforts of the Croatian government, both these and the former ones, that as soon as we arrive and enter Euro-Atlantic integration when it comes to water then we absolutely do not support that in any way Western developed Europe is our role model because they have destroyed all their waters, polluted, they are running for as much profit as possible and they have practically done that there is no D in Western Europe today than good when it comes to drinking water. Thank God for us in Croatia can still be water from the taps, but in Western Europe it is impossible. Water is good everywhere in the world. The one with us Croats is also a general national well-being. It must be available to everyone, to all living things, and therefore we must be very jealous of it because we know according to all scientific and professional knowledge that Croatia is third in water quantities in Europe and very high in the world. What today is oil and other energies in the world in 30, 40 years of warning by experts it will be water and therefore we must have a very good mastery with this water. I would warn here of some things that should enter this strategy in a different way. Namely, how to use water. Well, for example, here's one of the great water users that she also uses for drinking, which is used in the industry, which is used to produce electricity, it is also used in agriculture. Agriculture is a major water polluter, and it should be resolved so that all those agricultural users, for example, do any plant protection, so that they have to pay close attention to how to put off what they used for protection, how to wash away all the things they used, so all those dishes they used to use to keep it from going to the ground and thus pollute the water. Then, it was today in these debates over the embankment. We see from this file that we have many eco associations are angry about these dikes. Well, unfortunately last fall in many parts of Croatia at the end of summer and early autumn we had many floods. So if we strictly adhere to all these demands, even though I support it, then we wouldn't have absolutely any protection against these floods. I'm also aware that any anti-natural incursion in nature comes back as a boomerang but we always have to make sure that everything that has advantages has disadvantages. So, I advocate that all those users of the water that they use in one way or another and, in particular, agriculture make sure that the less they destroy the water, the less the groundwater. Croatia is practically lying on the water and another big problem with us is that we in Croatia today only 1% of the total agricultural area are irrigated. I am in favour of making this channel that has existed for more than a century as an idea, and I hope that soon it will happen the Danube-Sava channel that will not only connect those two great rivers but will also be for the benefit of food production in that part of Croatia. In any case, I support this strategy, and I hope that in the second reading, when everything that has been said in these discussions, which has been said on the committees, will still be applied inside, and that we will get one document that will not normally be in our possession for short use but will be a document for the next decade that will answer all these questions that are being asked today in the management and management of water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57158	Thank you very much. And the last one in the debate is Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I haven't given up the debate, but I'm going to be as short as I am. Since I consider this to be the most important point of all eight that we have discussed in this session of the Parliament, and I am sorry that we are taking it in a way that is shortened, and I am sorry that we do not have much more time to talk about the strategy in the first reading because it is much easier to install our remarks in the second reading when we are narrowed down to the maneuvering space only the amendment. So I think it is much better that the more we speak now and I will not speak in general than I will say very concretely, therefore, about Croatia. So, to conform to all those who believe that the next century wars will be fought no more because of oil than by drinking water, strategic areas are now being taken up and that in that part we have a special responsibility in the current assembly of Parliament to bring such a document that will provide our generations rationally and on all the bases that are listed here very well in the management and use strategy of drinking water. What I would like to say is that in order for the strategy to see equal opportunities for all Croatian citizens to reach drinking water, which is a unique system of funding, because so far we have had such a variety which is not good and therefore I insist therefore, and I am glad that the water supply rises to the state problem number one and that it cannot be left to some local municipal enterprises or local opportunities, and that is why we have such a way to say that we are talking about areas of Koprivnica-Crisis and Bjelovar County that are very close to the city of Zagreb have a supply of thirty percent. So, not one third of the population has access to public water supply and you have some other areas with far fewer inhabitants that are far better supplied. And for that reason, I ask that these freeways are built by common means and that local bodies and locals are dispersed because they have too much burden to build a secondary network. And so far, it has been the case that residents of these areas and highways have built exclusively from their own resources. There's one more thing I'd like to say about this plan to carry out the activity. So it is obvious that it is an interdisciplinary interdisciplinary approach. The very number of regulations, therefore the forest regulations and the basics that the team is regulated, somewhere around 35 says that it is very difficult to manage in these papers, and therefore I suggest that once we adopt a strategy to simplify the laws and implementing regulations that speak about certain areas because it is not logical that today you have a situation where, for example, in a small municipality, you want to open a car wash from your own well, you have to do such elaborates as those that pollute, I am talking about, for example, some meat industries half to say Croatia with my own waste in water streams that exist. So there should be one rational use of legal opportunities that this strategy will therefore unify, and I would just say sometimes when we adopt regulations in the House, we do not take into account those to whom it applies, and even when we voted that water contribution we did not know that it would cause major problems that occurred on the ground. I've been called by people from small municipalities, so with the water supply they've added to their utility fees, they can't do it all the way the law imagined. And what else happened? It happened, I don't know how the government's going to solve it, but I tend to those who, to the strategy, propose to think about either freezing or withdrawing this bill. So you have a situation that in the construction of the building in the negotiations you have offered one price by introducing a water contribution per meter of a square building you have collected that same building. If it's a bigger square, I have a concrete example from the Crosses for some million kunas and you can't put it into a more selling price. So there's something that's not good for the economy in total if we want to, no matter what we're talking about here, about the need to raise money for that kind of water industry, that we don't allow the businessmen to live and do business normally, because in the end they have to alimate for that water industry. So I would also like to appeal that, by introducing an economic price, too, it is not possible for the economy to function. So by insisting that the strategy determines therefore if an economic price is introduced and orders the economic behaviour of those who supply water because you have a situation that you have somewhere, we have 46% of the losses on average. It goes up to 70% somewhere. So it's not normal, it's probably abuses, and I'm not going to talk about them specifically now, not just a leak or a bad sewerage, but it's selling water beyond control that you have a situation where water is driven by tanks and you know it's possible. So order economic behavior and prescribe maximum, maximum possible loss. It has to be determined, I don't know if it's 15% as much as we agree, but to prescribe it in the strategy. Here's a thank you, if I was brief.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57160	No, because, because they're... It's already going through one replica, so when you add it up, it's even more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, here's Mr. Hrelja's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57161	Mr. Vice President, I'd like to correct in good faith the incorrect quote of a colleague who said that water wars will be fought in the next century. It is an exact claim based on the prognosis of top experts that real war is possible because of water in this century. So I want to underline that the problem is much closer than it's said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57162	... We're trying not to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The replica of Mr. Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you see colleagues always come to collect and in some ways unargumented and uncritical adoption of certain laws. We were just about to show from the opposition when, when the water contribution was being introduced which he would bring and that he would collect the investments and everything else, then you were very proud of the position to tell us that it wasn't true. That there are calculations, this, that. Now all of a sudden you're here and you realize the essence of things. It seems to me, however, that in this House of Commons, there should be more analysis, so often and slower procedure of law making and respecting the views of opposition on certain matters, and then we would have better quality and better laws. Now you're complaining about all of us instead of saying it's my fault, too, because I voted for such a law. The other thing I'm not convinced is that you can bring in some kind of maximum possible loss or leak. We need to be aware of what the older water lines are and we have them that's greater and permeability of the pipe. We have a situation in the area of the town of Ivanca where citizens themselves built a water line without the help of anyone on the side that the water flow is over 50%. But let's make a deal and say the highway pipelines were building on their own. So we need to be aware that all those who spend water, drinking water have certain separations where, based on solidarity, 70% of different spending and drinking water charges go to the common register and are spent on expanding the water supply and everything else. Therefore, those who have water lines where there is greater coverage must admit that they are now, through Croatian waters and through co-financing programmes, funding to reach water and those who do not have water.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57164	Mrs. Judge-Thrascan's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57165	In the good faith of law-making that we're fixing those things that you're doing in 4 years, of course, because there's a list of laws that they've passed in these four years can happen, possibly in some part not to misjudge but when the results are analysed, maybe in some groups of entrepreneurs, I'm only talking about builders, so I'm also seeing some possibility of repairing this law, and I'm hoping that in that part I was only talking about the possible repairs of the existing law that we passed last year. And as far as this whole building is concerned, maybe you didn't understand me, dear fellow. I was just saying, of course, that we all have to participate and participate as taxpayers, but I was saying that there are certain areas, I am not going to say now that they are local in the Croatian state that I am not causing dissociation, where the highway is built 100% by means of Croatian water industry and certain ministries and certain areas where it is done out of citizens' pockets. Here's all I wanted to combine it not by saying where it is, but that there is, and that's what Croatian television was talking about and there were different reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57166	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State want it to be final? The Secretary of State will conclude shortly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57167	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first and foremost to thank everyone for taking part in this debate on the water-economic base. Please also allow me to inform you that it means the debate that has been highlighted in your statements that it has not been conducted. Let me inform you that a total of 129 scientific and institution associations of higher schools, universities and institutes of various societies, businesses, means the same companies that are related to the water economy have taken part in this debate on the water-economic base. I must also personally point out that we are a large part of the objections that have come from them that we have installed in this water-economic service. I also want to say that I am extremely glad that a large part of you has particularly highlighted the protection against floods. I have to point out here in particular that when we were on Mura this year, so when the 100-year-old water appeared, it was meant to explain to people why they flooded their houses, and the reason was known, it wasn't built on a rash. The question here is, why aren't the dikes built? It is absolutely clear that very little has been invested in flood protection. So I have to point out here specifically that from 2000 to 2002 invested about a hundred million kunas in flood protection. As for 2003-2005, we doubled that amount. However, much has not been done yet. And this year it happened the first time that the government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision and built a rash on Mura. This rash is now being built and we are confident that next year, if high waters come again, people and material goods will be protected. At first, I specifically pointed out, if you followed me, that the flood protection system was compromised. So there's a great possibility that both humans and material possessions are at risk. I would like to say here that precisely why the government of the Republic of Croatia has introduced a water contribution. Why? Because right from this water contribution, we're going to bring the flood protection system into normal condition. We're also going to clear the detailed channel network III and IV of order, demining etc., and we're going to bring it into a zero position. I also want to say here that a question has been asked about the payment of the water contribution in the wars. It is also possible only that unfortunately some of you have not read the regulation to the end. So there's a possibility that the water contribution could be paid in the war. As for the payment of the water contribution through the municipalities. The municipalities that are unable to do so will normally do so by Croatian waters. But I would like to make it clear here that for certain municipalities it is an additional source of income because we provide 5% of the total amount + the material costs that are recorded. So it is covered on the burden of Croatian waters. Also, this issue of influential, the price means the transactions that are agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57168	I'm sorry, it's not necessary now for every thing that's set here to answer. To conclude the debate, this is a strategy. We can't present the details now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57169	Thank you. We'll take note of the remarks. And here, let me just say in the end that the entire water-economic base is on the Internet. So, everyone who wants to be able to take part, means also on the Internet, and I'm saying, this is about preparing for a second reading that we're going to try to respect all of these remarks that are justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57170	Thank you very much. At 14.30 is the Mandate-Immunity Commission has a meeting at the hall "Anta Starčević" 149. So, now for one 10 minutes. I'm closing and interrupting this session and we're continuing at 3:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-17-0.u57171	I Proposal for a Water and Economy Base Croatian Strategy, Croatian Water Management Strategy according to the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. I am voting on the following conclusion: the translation of the water-economic base of the Croatian Water Management Strategy was held in the first reading. A proposal for a water-economic base of Croatia, Water Management Strategy, is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. The applicant agreed to this. It goes to the first reading of the Strategy. We can vote. The result? With 96 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed conclusion.
