ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67852	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 21st session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. As well as Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, vice president, vice president and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm confirming that we've adopted the minutes with the 20th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under point 13, paragraphs 18 to 21 and points 60 to 63, sets out the laws proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure. And these are the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Second, the proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Police Office. Third, a proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol prohibiting use in the war of stifled, toxic or similar gases and bacteriological methods of war, with the final proposal of the law. Fourth, the proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Macedonia to the Central European Free Trade Treaty, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Fifth, a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Sixth, a proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Seven, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Eight, the proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy, with the Final Proposal of the Law. And the ninth, draft Act supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law. We decided on an emergency procedure for the adoption of the law under points 2 and 56 at the last session. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Okay. Let's take it in a row. Dear Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67853	Mr. President, the Croatian party's right club has noted the point of the Bill's proposal in amendments to the Law on the Croatian People's Bank Final Proposal for an emergency procedure. We believe that for this urgency there is no valid reason for the team no longer having passed a more serious public debate in the Republic of Croatia, and the current HNB Act adopted by the Croatian Parliament in April is fully in line with the so-called "HNB". the standards of developed countries. Prior to its adoption, the IMF had been audited as relevant expert bodies with the European Union and in line with the current Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, although the Republic of Croatia is still only a candidate for membership in the European Union and therefore there is no national and valid rational and valid reason to now request an amendment to the existing CNB Act under an urgent procedure. We suggest that this law goes into regular procedure and that this be the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67854	Thank you. Dear Representative Antoine Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67855	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, members of the government. The HSS Club opposes the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on the Croatian National Bank for an urgent procedure because it should be if there is some reason not to go into an emergency procedure, then these are reasons, and this is one serious debate on the Croatian National Bank because possible changes can disrupt relatively stable relations and one law that was also ruled by the belief that all the achievements of the European Union and all that we have talked about should not be discussed so quickly without an adequate basis, without a public debate which should have given a clearer guidance because this can be read about what may be the law and does not belong, but through it wants to be resolved in this way. Therefore, we oppose the adoption of this Law by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67856	Third, distinguished representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67857	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with Article 205 of the basic Regulation, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Democratic Community oppose the urgent procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Public Roads with the Final Proposal of the Law P.Z. No. 488, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts emergency procedure P.Z. No. 494, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. No. 501 and Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. No. 502 since we do not consider that there are legitimate state reasons for the adoption of these draft laws by emergency procedure pursuant to Article 159(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67858	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67859	The SDP Club opposes the urgent procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank where there is no legitimate reason listed in our Rules of Procedure to discuss Law No 521 by emergency procedure. Also, this Law does not bear the E mark, which means it is not a matter of harmonising with European legislation, and in addition to everything in the law itself, the provisions that change and we think that two readings need to be carried out in order to carry out at least through the Parliament a public debate concerning amendments and additions to the National Bank Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67860	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67861	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I will show myself about this proposal from the club of HSP, HSS and SDP, and above all I will say that there are very good reasons, but we are open to consent, and also to the consent to go in two readings. What were the reasons that led the government to propose an emergency procedure? First of all, the fact that we are going to propose and that there is what we were expecting is a broad consensus on the continuation of the National Bank Governor's mandate and we felt it would be good to do so under the new law, and above all, this new law may be one of the amendments to being the three members on the outside now, according to the start, that in the new mandate the governor starts and with the new law. It was an idea, so there's justifiable reasons. But since it can be in a few months, it means if the second reading is in the fall that we can go according to that law from the government, if it's the price to reach a consensus on this important issue of the National Bank and the Governors of the Government, and also from HDZ we will agree to a second reading. Well, here's what I'm willing to do, but at the cost of actually having a serious discussion and reaching a consensus about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67862	I'll take that to withdraw the motion to pass the law by emergency procedure. We're going to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. Ladies and gentlemen, please engage. Thank you. The quorum. 81 MPs and MPs, there's a quorum. We're going to vote on the application of the law by emergency procedures. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank goes into two readings. Secondly, who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Police Office. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 78 for, 3 abstentions, 2 against. This law goes into the agenda by emergency procedure. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol prohibiting use in the war of stifling toxic or similar gases and bacteriological methods of warfare. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 77 votes for and 5 abstentions. And this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Macedonia to the Central European Free Trade Treaty? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 76 votes in favour and 7 abstentions, this law goes according to emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 30 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 45 against. This law is not included in the agenda by emergency procedure. That was usually the government's bill. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on Public Roads proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSP? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. It was an objection to this bill by emergency procedure. The result? 21 for, 15 abstentions, 47 against. He's going to first reading. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts? He was objecting to this bill by emergency procedure. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 10 votes for, 7 abstentions, 65 against. He's going to first reading. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy? There was the same objection to the urgency of the procedure. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 15 for, 3 abstentions, 62 against. He's going to first reading. And finally, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia? He was also objecting to the urgency of the procedure. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 16 for, 2 abstentions, 62 against. He's going to first reading. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. If you agree, as usual, that I am not reading the full agenda but simply announcing that the agenda has been established as proposed with the amendments to the final draft agenda. Consent? Agenda established. Ladies and gentlemen, please engage to determine the quorum. The result? 91, we have a quorum. We can move on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda of the 21st session to the following points: 1. Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 together with proposals for all those plans, 2. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, second reading, 3. Proposal for a law on general application cases with a final draft law, P.Z.E. Number 523, emergency procedure, 4. Proposal for a law on areas of county, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with a final draft law, emergency procedure, 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, emergency procedure, 6. Final draft law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law, second reading, 7. Proposal for a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia 2006 to 2015, 8. Proposal for a guidelines for the application of contractual forms of public-private partnership and 9. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the assistant attorney for the children. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that an individual law is to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. In the case of a proposal for a law on general application items with the Final Proposal of the Law, it shall bear the P.Z. as an emergency procedure, we do not vote. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? What? [[The intruders don't understand.]] You don't know what this is about? [[We don't know what this is about.]] Oh, well, about the emergency procedure. Easy, easy, easy. [[The intruders don't understand.]] On the application of the emergency procedure, the Act on General Use Matters is. That's it, listen up and you'll hear what's going on. Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruders don't understand.]] It's the same for the emergency procedure. These laws came today and today they [[The intruders don't understand.]] Today, please don't say it's not true when I just received them and sent them into the procedure. [[The intruders don't understand.]] And sent to the multiplication procedure. These proposals of the law Is there any suggestion, any objection to the inclusion? [[The intruders don't understand.]] Take it easy. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67864	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Whether the proposed laws proposed for an emergency procedure satisfy the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure cannot be said because I did not receive the law. None of the proposed emergency laws, nor do we know the content. I suggest that you complete the agenda when MPs and representatives' clubs get the proposed laws that you propose to fit into the agenda. Otherwise, not only can we not accept the addition of the agenda, but I'm going to have to call it what it's like to actually rape the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67865	As for the rape of the rape agenda, there will be no agenda or anyone else. And since you're objecting, I'm saying that these laws were delivered to me a little while ago, and I put them on the market. Since you object that you do not want to decide that these laws are included in the agenda, these two laws will not now propose them in addition to the agenda but on Tuesday But it doesn't have to, but that's why you can say calmly. [[The intruders don't understand.]] You don't have to, you don't have to do that, it doesn't require one general joy. Okay. Yeah. Okay. With regard to these other three proposals... Please! Yes, thank you very much for, I look forward to, in general, your arrival on both sides. The agenda is set. This goes, the supplement goes as we've accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's vote. Please, let's engage to determine the quorum. What's the score? 81 is present, we have a quorum. We can vote. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 21st session to the next points. Proposal for a law on general application matters by the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z.E., No. 523. Secondly, the draft law on areas of county, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure. Third, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Fourthly, the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project to complete the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, an emergency procedure. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement for the National PHAR Programme for 2005 between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, emergency procedure. Sixth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, emergency procedure. Seven, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, an emergency procedure. Eight, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, Second Reading. Ninth, Final Proposal of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, second reading. 10th, Final Proposal of the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, second reading. Final proposal of the Health Insurance Act at Work, second reading. And final proposal of the Law on the Education and Education Agency, second reading. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67867	Dear President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I ask that an emergency procedure be removed from the Proposal for a Law on Areas of County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia because no business provision for an emergency procedure has been met. Secondly, the law is scheduled to enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal, not 8 days after its publication, which we also see no justification for it. And thirdly, we are in the first quarter of our mandate in the units of local self-government, and this amendment of the Law will condition that in 18 units of local self-government, extraordinary elections are held for representative bodies, which is equally not fair. So we ask that he go to the first reading of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67868	Thank you. Is there more? Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67869	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, we also oppose the urgent procedure in all these legal texts. We know for ourselves what brings us an emergency procedure, especially when it comes to sessions, when a regular break comes, then a variety of solutions and provisions are placed on the small door, and therefore we always plead that... /The speaker is excluded, and then included. / Most of the legal texts are brought in regular procedure and regular procedure because we do not know what we decide and what we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67870	On what bill of law do you comment on an emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67871	All of these you've read by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67872	Everything? Okay. Well, let's take it in a row. In the case of a proposal for a law on general application matters with the Final Proposal for a Law bearing the code P.Z.E. We do not decide to apply an emergency procedure. First, we will now vote on this proposal for a law which has been objected to for the implementation of an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 66 votes for and 24 against and this has been accepted. Secondly, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 73 votes for, 2 abstentions, 12 against. And this law goes according to an emergency procedure. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project to complete the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. Please, let's get on with it. Vote? The result? With 81 votes for, 2 abstentions, 5 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Fourthly, who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement for the National PHAR Programme for 2005 between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission? Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 83 votes for, 2 abstentions, 4 against. And this law goes according to an emergency procedure. Fifth, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry? The result? 77 votes, 2 abstentions, 9 against. And this bill of law goes according to an emergency procedure. And who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts? Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 74 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 13 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 21st session at the point of once the proposal for a decision on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. At 14.00 p.m., the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Petar Selem, scheduled a committee session at the Ivan Mažuranić Hall, 84th floor. And now the ladies and gentlemen would interrupt the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours with a debate about a health care package. It's PGS, SBH and NDS. It's 13,52 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67876	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll ask the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Lovrin. Madam Minister, we have recently accepted here an amendment to the Law on Courts, which states that when the judges are appointed and in accordance with the Constitutional Law, the representation of minorities must be taken into account. Meanwhile, there was the appointment of judges at the Municipal Court in Ozlja, and there Mr. Miric called for his national membership as one of the criteria for appointment. The State Judiciary Council has refused. Before that I say, the list you signed and the list signed by the Justice Committee were all candidates. The State Judiciary Council rejected this candidate, so he complained to the Administrative Court, and that's where I come in for an anthological reasoning. The ruling of the Administrative Court states, first of all, a small lesson, says: "Nationality and minority membership are not identical." And then after that, it says, "A man called for nationality and didn't call for minority membership. Therefore, he then becomes a candidate like everyone else and is not respected by that invitation for proportional representation." I ask you what you're going to do and will you do anything to protect the implementation of the Constitutional Law?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67877	Justice Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67878	.....the speaker is subsequently involved.....President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Of course, the Ministry of Justice will do everything in its jurisdiction to consistently implement both the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. At the end of last year he was adopted here in the Parliament and the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on Courts. The State Judicial Council Act refers to the application of the Law on Courts, which speaks of the proportion of representation of members of national minorities among judges under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. As for the concrete case of the election of a judge in the Municipality Court of the Iron, the first ad was announced at the request of the president of that court in May 2004. That's when the appointed judge didn't take office. Therefore, the republished ad was published in February 2005 and the State Judicial Council chose between 6 candidates, Mrs Katarina Zuks,... She's a councilwoman at the Sisak Municipal Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must point out here that the election and appointment of judges is in the jurisdiction of the State Judiciary Council. The State Judiciary Council is a body chosen and appointed by the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice has no authority over him. I would like to stress that the procedure has been initiated, the initiation of the procedure for the appointment of a judge in this court is prior to the entry into force of the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council. Otherwise, the Ministry of Justice shall carry out a technical part of the preparation for the appointment of judges. It therefore forms a list of candidates who meet the requirements and pass them on to the Judicial Council, and then to the State Judicial Council. What will certainly be the future on the occasion of the appointment of judges, if the candidate is called upon to belong to the national minority in accordance with the Law on Courts, the Ministry of Justice will report and forward it to the State Judicial Council in accordance with the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67879	The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67880	I thank you for your response, Madam Minister. The competition is an ad went before the amendment of the Law on Courts. But much later than the Constitutional Law was passed. I'm unhappy about two messages. One is the State Judicial Council, which says, "The Constitutional Law is not valid for us." And another message from this, the people who signed this argument that I quoted here. That message is actually: "We are your system. I am your system." These messages are such that they really produce dissatisfaction. I'd like to ask you a written answer for a written clue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67881	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67882	The question was addressed to Prime Minister Sanader. In the "Current Hour" of January this year, I asked you for the justification of the government's decision to forgive "The Stone of Ingrad" for your personal insistence beyond the public 36 million kuna. Then you replied with a lot of insults that your condition was quoted as saying: "to ensure jobs for 700 people working there". There are currently no employees in "The Stone of Ingrad". The state has lost 36 million kuna. Požega County without 105 million kuna. Workers without jobs and salaries for the past few months. Mr. Sanader, my question is, how will you now provide bread for 700 families in the Great? Perhaps you will open a branch of the POA and hire them all as an essential member of the state administration and do you still feel that the decision to forgive the debts was moral since you only forgiven the debts of "The Stone of Ingrad"?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67883	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67884	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ma'am, my answer is this: today we think the same thing about Stone Ingrad and the people who need to work there, about employees, about this area as we thought a year ago. The difference is, you don't feel the same way. Because while in power in that county there was one option then you were against it. And now that's the second option, you're up for it. Unlike you, we feel that we still need to help these people today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67885	Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67886	Mr. Sanader, I think the same thing a year ago and now all because I think your decision on the 36 million kuna forgiveness "The Stone of Ingrad" was immoral. And on the other hand, as far as these 700 people are concerned, the people you talk about and who care about their jobs when 700 people today don't have a job and don't get paid, and you've given 36 million kunas of taxpayers' money to a private... /The speech room has been turned off./...to the owner of the Government of the Rabbit, not to the workers because the workers today are without jobs, Mr. Sanader. That's what I asked you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67887	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67888	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the President of the Croatian Government. The new Spacious Plan of Republika Srpska plans to continue activities on the realisation of the project Upper Horizons, which means water translation from the karst fields from the Neretva Basin to the Trebišnice Basin and the construction of the Nevesinje hydropower plant and the Dabar hydropower plant and the direction of their waters into the Bilečko lake. That actually means disaster for the valley of Neretva. So the lack of drinking water in the Neretva Valley and salinization... i.e. the gradual conversion of the Neretva delta into a large salt desert with a disaster for agriculture in the Neretva Valley. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this procedure of Republika Srpska is a violation of the contract between the government of Croatia, the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the regulation of water-economic relations. It is a violation of the Directives 60 and 2000 of the European Parliament and of the European Commission but is also a violation of the International Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes. Why does the Croatian government not react to such an eclatant violation of a series of conventions and interstate agreements between Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina or tolerate that Republika Srpska behaves as a state in the country and that it can violate, on its own, a series of conventions that are ultimately to the great harm of Croatia, our eco-systems and our agriculture. So why is the Croatian Government not responding or reacting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67889	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67890	This second question was right how will it react? We'll react safely. It means as we are expected and because we want to protect the national interest and the Neretva Delta is absolutely of national interest. But I would refer to another part of your question where you're right. Is Republika Srpska acting independently on the central authorities of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Obviously, yes. Why? Probably, this is probably no excuse, but the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the election campaign and probably needs some radical extremist moves to win some voters. In any case, we will react in an appropriate manner and protect the valley of Neretva.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67891	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67892	The problem is significant. On the one hand, the European Union is financing the protection of Delta, and on the other hand, the construction of these dams is being financed by companies from the European Union. At the same time, Mr. Prime Minister, we ratified the Treaty on the Energy Community, which should regulate these things, but you obviously slipped in the first step.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67893	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67894	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, you have concluded a contract with the Slovenian company Diakor vector, thus introducing the Slovenian firm in business with Promala, i.e. TLM. Concealed Croatian entrepreneurs sought their justice on the street, and feared by their anger, revolt, and aware that the public is on their side because these people were absolutely right, you simply broke that harmful contract. Now Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec is secretly negotiating with the lawyer team of the company, Diakor Vector, for the damages of the company now because of the unilateral termination of the contract. Please tell me, how much will the Croatian tax collectors cost to you now?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67895	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67896	Madam MPs, with all due respect I guarantee you that I have towards you, I must say that you did not hit the srid with this question which would be said in Sinj and beyond. First of all, the government did not break the contract but the corporate administration and we have long since come out of socialism where, where a central committee or someone in Zagreb decides and then companies have to listen to it. We live in a free, democratic country where businesses have their own administrations, have their own boards, supervisory boards, and they make a decision. Therefore, I have no intention of answering this question because it is not addressed to the right address.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67897	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67898	Then why is Vice President Polancec negotiating with the barrister's team? Mr. Prime Minister, corruption affairs have since the beginning burdened this government – Liburnia, Bechtel, Stone Ingrad, etc. Then we should not be surprised that we have just gone down and that we have been covered by a wave of corruption from which Croatia will hardly be bleached, from which Croatia will be hard to surface. Here is now the latest survey by the International Association on the competitiveness of sixty-one transition countries. Croatia has taken the prime minister's disgraceful 59th place right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67899	Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67900	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm giving my question to Minister Kirina. When I visited some municipalities in Croatia at the beginning of my parliamentary term in 2004 I was interested in representing members of national minorities... i.e. in this case at the Ministry of the Interior and I was surprised that in some municipalities, the number of members of national minorities, i will only list some municipalities of Vojnic, Cetingrad, Topusko, etc. is equal to zero. [[Because of the President's bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] On that occasion, when I spoke with the Ministry of the Interior, I was told that it would work to change and improve the national structure of the Ministry of the Interior. Unfortunately, I'm getting information from the field that even that small number of Bosniaks who were in the police have been gradually eliminated. I'll only give an example of Vukovar-Srijem County, Marofa, etc. I'm really interested in what makes your ministry a national structure in municipalities at least correspond to the national population structure of 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67901	Home Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67902	Your Honor, I'd like to answer this question for you right now. First of all, I'd like to deny you in one quote, which is that at the Ministry of the Interior anyone in religious terms is being discriminated against by any other belonging. Because it is the Ministry of the Interior that is responsible for the protection of the constitutional rights of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And if you have any such knowledge, you have made it public here, please provide us with this information, and we will be very happy to investigate it in our services because in the last few months we have made a lot of efforts in cooperation with both the European Commission or the International Community just to improve the situation in areas, and especially in areas where war has been fought. We are aware of the fact that now in the next period because of the establishment of Schengen, i.e. Croatia's entry into the European Union will have to have a larger number and border police officers. Well, it's normal logic that people who work as police in the community, that cops and border cops are just from a place of residence, and according to that population structure, police administrations will also be filled in. But then again, not with numbers, but with real needs. So more members of national minorities can be expected. What I would like to point out now in full terms of the Ministry of the Interior itself, and that is one public fact that I have to point out here. The mass of employees, police officers do not want to be nationally defined or declared, and they and we do not condemn it. But the part that's being kept with us in the records that have been nationalized is being conducted. For now, according to the number, the largest number of members of the national minorities in the MUP is now among Serb national minorities, both Bosniaks and Muslims. What I would like to say is that in the next period, the Ministry of the Interior will complete its ranks and what we are crying for and in conversation with some MPs, we need members of the Roma minority, especially when it comes to linguistic diversity, because it greatly facilitates our work in areas where a certain national minority lives. Here's how it works here. I'm going to say specifically to the Roma, Albanians and other members of the national minorities. The MAP has introduced easier access to those minorities in the Ministry of the Interior but in the following period we will now, with the help of the parliamentary representatives and with the help of local self-government, see that we put a good part of the people as employees of the Ministry of the Interior in order to facilitate the work of the police in this area. I'm going to give an example of Chakovec because there in the area of Međimurje County, here in the conversation with MP Lesar, that's exactly the problem being imposed and we have to solve it. Because it solves our costs greatly because people living in the area feel more secure when it comes to members of their people. I'd just like to say, but what's very important, I repeat again today, there's no discrimination against anyone. And I reject these claims because a lot of effort and time is really being made, and as far as you can see from the reports of the old Commissions and the European Commission that are being followed by the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67903	Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67904	Well, you, Mr. Minister, in your answer, have indirectly admitted that unfortunately my concern is quite right. In fact, you yourself said that part of the members of the national minorities do not want to be declared national. So don't be, let's not be kids, it's the best sign that something's wrong with that. On the other hand, I had a conversation yesterday, a man came to me with a name and last name and told me I competed here and here, I was admitted, I was told Zagreb must confirm, Zagreb must confirm my choice, and I received a negative answer. I can say, Mr. Minister, give you a few examples where it is clearly said that there is discrimination against some national minorities. Thank you very much. And I'm asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67905	Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67906	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government. My question was addressed to Minister Calmeti. Mr. Minister, I would like to remind you of the fact that out of the total number of tourists arriving in the Republic of Croatia 60% of tourists enter the road crossings of Pasjak and Rupa. And that's when they have to cross the river route. Another fact, Mr. Minister, is that this name is the Rijeka bypass which is one of the most burdened roads in the Republic of Croatia with an average daily traffic of 32 000 vehicles, and this traffic is naturally and twice as high in the tourist season. So my question is, when will the government make a decision on capital investment and on the deadlines for the construction of the second arm of the Rijeka bypass of Diracje-Orehovica?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67907	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67908	Madam MPs, the government made such a decision long ago, at its session in late 2004, when a four-year plan for the maintenance and construction of public roads in Croatia was adopted, where construction of the so-called so-called River bypasses. This is what all of you have said absolutely, that, through this road, it is up to 60% of tourists in our country, that it is one of the most burdened sections of the roads in Croatia. And that's why there's been a systematic resolution of the so-called. River bypasses. And the works on the great part and on the parts of that bypass are ongoing. Some parts will be put on the market by now in July this year. As for the stock mentioned by Orehovica-Odiraci and the second phase, I can tell you that there are works on underpass construction, several underpasses have already begun and that they will clearly continue until the stock is completed in full profile, as is foreseen by the plan of building and maintaining public roads in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the work has already begun. They run uninterrupted, run as planned, and that stock will be put on the market within the scheduled time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67909	Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67910	Well, I couldn't possibly be satisfied because I didn't get my deadlines. I know that the knots of Drago, St. Kuzan and Regica are going to be put on the market this July. However, the Rijeka bypass in this section in this section in which I mentioned neither the money nor the deadlines, and the work is only on the trail. I must remind you that a month ago, in the last month, there have been two traffic accidents in that stock and that the traffic itself has been rerouted through the City of Rijeka and that there has been a collapse in Rijeka. And I'm curious when this government will leave position... All those who are not followers of your political option, because they build detours from below 10,000 vehicles per day, and where there are 32 thousand vehicles a day, they don't build bypasses, and it's practically become a city road. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67911	Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67912	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO is a very important foreign policy but also a defence goal of the Republic of Croatia. To achieve this goal, the Government is working intensively to implement the 2005 and 2006 Annual National Plan, which provides for the implementation of political, economic and defence reforms. A meeting of the delegation of the Council of the North-Atlantic, North-Atlantic Council and the Republic of Croatia was held in Brussels on 29 May 2006 to discuss the implementation of reforms in the fourth cycle of the 2005 and 2006 Annual National Plan. Our delegation was led by Ms. Foreign Minister Kitarovic and Mr. Minister Roncevic. The question would be addressed to Ms. Foreign Minister Mrs. Kitarovic. What is your assessment of this meeting and what are our further expectations in the process of approaching NATO?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67913	Foreign Minister and European Integration Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67914	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Representative, during a meeting between Croatia and the North Atlantic Council on 29 May this year, which was chaired by NATO Secretary-General Shepher, we are discussing the fourth cycle of the membership action plan that has just been completed and, in the autumn of this year, we are starting with a fifth cycle and with concrete tasks in the field of defence, defence and armed forces reform of the Republic of Croatia. The meeting I said was held in a very positive atmosphere and I think there is one qualitative shift compared to the previous meetings I attended. And this time we discussed with all the praises that Croatia received for fulfilling the reforms and we discussed concrete issues of meeting the strategic development of the armed forces and other issues of defence reform. On our part, we have reported everything that has been done about any progress in reforms during the 4th cycle of the membership action plan, meaning judicial reform and state administration, return of refugees, exiles, return of property, as well as participation of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping operations under the direction of the United Nations and NATO, and in all 11 peacekeeping operations. Minister Roncevic specifically reported on defence reforms and on working material for the long-term plan for the development of the armed forces for the period 2006 to 2015. We have made it very clear that since the Riga summits this year we expect a clear signal, a clear message and a clear timeframe regarding the NATO membership invitation and further dynamics of accession as well as the implementation of all obligations by the Republic of Croatia, but also by NATO which must also send a very clear message to Croatia and the Croatian public. I have to say that I am extremely pleased with the reactions of my partners and representatives of the NATO member states who have estimated that great progress has been made in meeting all obligations and that Croatia really deserves a clear signal, a clear message from Riga, and some allies have pointed out and even made it very clear that Croatia has made indeed the greatest progress of all candidate countries, and that in this sense it is really profiled both at a growing pace and progress towards NATO membership. As one of the biggest challenges that awaits us on the road to NATO membership, the thought is to increase support, informing the Croatian public about NATO membership, including all those economic and other contentaries, so the increase in foreign investment and the number of tourists coming to Croatia, is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia will focus on in the period ahead of us to inform the Croatian public in due time and quality of information about NATO, not only as a military alliance, but also as a political alliance with which we share the same values of democracy, the market economy, social rights and others. So, during the period ahead of us, we are preparing for a summit in Riga and in Riga we expect a very clear assessment of the progress Croatia has made so far and, as I have shown, a clear timeframe for further accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67915	Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67916	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am pleased with Mrs. Secretary Kolinca's reply. I am particularly pleased that the talks took place in such a good atmosphere as they are, by the delegation of the North Atlantic Council, a positive assessment of the reforms carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia both in political, economic, defence, and here it is said to the judiciary and all other programmes we implement to join NATO. I am also pleased that expectations are optimistic and that we can continue to expect progress in the negotiations and, of course, our efforts to include the Republic of Croatia in the Atlantic Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67917	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67918	Thank you very much. My question was addressed to the Minister of Culture Mr. God's Bishop, and although this question has already been on the agenda today, I think it's worth asking again. The lower current, and especially the Neretva delta, is a world-valided habitat under the protection of... , and it is almost certain that it will be included in the nature of 2000. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This area is also extremely important for economic reasons because they grow as we know large amounts of fruit and vegetables fed by the 50,000 inhabitants of the region. But lately, the catastrophic news and the future of the lower river Neretva along with the delta are because if Bosnia and Herzegovina's intentions are to build all the planned hydropower plants in the upper river, I'm afraid there will be nothing left in the future. So I ask the question of the Minister of Culture what and how does the ministry intend to do about this very burning problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67919	Minister of Culture Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67920	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam MPs, if that were to happen, there would really be long-term damage to the entire ecological system of the lower Neretva, not only ecological damage but, as you mentioned, economic damage, but not only for this part of Neretva and the plum itself, but even for... the bay because it would change their and the ratio of allitity in that part at all and therefore the Ministry of Culture and prepare an entire project to declare this whole lower area a nature park. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since we have already heard that there are some plans that are called the upper horizons to build some hydrothermia and that part of the stream of Neretva flows towards Trebišnica we have reacted in conversation with and how this part of the river below is protected... The Convention, which means the Convention on Wetlands from which part of the World Bank is funded when there was a representative of the World Bank Mr.... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I talked to him, and I mentioned to him that there are such dangers, and I ask them to respond, and that they help if these projects happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since both us and Bosnia and Herzegovina are signatories to the same convention, then we are required, of course, but they also take care of this lower river Neretva. Since we are also signatories to the Convention on Biological Variety, I think we will be able to react that way, but as I say before, and we have heard that some plans are such works, then I have asked that through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, one letter to be made through... In fact, the examination is actually about whether such plans exist that we may possibly not prejudge something but that, together with experts from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatian experts discuss the problem together and try to solve it all together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not exactly like we heard here that we didn't, that we don't have... We even reacted about the problem half a year ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67921	Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67922	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the answer especially because I think that, apart from this economic issue, we must take care of the ecological dimension of this problem because Croatia is one of the countries that certainly cherishs this ecological consciousness and, when it comes to such a large complex that is threatened by an extreme danger, I think it is good to react in time and to bring about concrete measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67923	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. He's gone. He's losing his right to ask questions. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67924	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask my question to Mr. Prime Minister. In time, while HDZ was acting in power in our county and in other districts in Slavonia, the shift directors went with only one sentence and that is, "You are not a man who can implement HDZ's hard policy, so you have to leave.". Such a policy has led Slavonia to its own kind; it has brought her to her knees. Is now this government policy that is now going on, does this policy lead to the same because certain counties are located in political isolation and certain even in political and financial isolation. In time, by speaking to one question five, six months ago, you announced a decentralisation project here because we know that local self-government and regional self-government cannot do anything without financial decentralisation and therefore political and financial isolation is possible. So I ask you, will such a practice be made for individual municipalities, individual cities and individual counties that can't reach any means because they belong to any other political option, will this practice end and when will you access your decentralisation project?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67925	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67926	Mr. Representative, first of all, I'd like you to tell me. You can also direct me or reach me which are municipalities or districts that are in financial or political isolation. I don't know about them. My Government's policy and I hope that we agree here to promote and work on the well-being and even development of all Croatian counties, all Croatian cities and all Croatian municipalities. If there are such cases then make sure that it is not part of the policy or part of the system and that it is absolutely against our policy. But I don't rule out having them. I can't say it was in Slavonic counties that you quoted where such things used to happen that a political decision was made. I hope those times are for us, that they've passed and that decisions are no longer made on these principles. Therefore, if there are such municipalities I ask you or any county to tell me and I will take measures and examine everything and if that is the case we will correct it. Secondly, when it comes to decentralisation that, it is true we have announced, it is our project and we still want to bring together with the community of mayors, mayors and mayors, with the Union of Mayors and Mayors to bring together that type of fiscal decentralisation because we have conducted this political decentralisation but fiscal decentralisation which is interesting to local and regional self-government but we want to bring it on the basis of consensus. We'll probably, we agreed with the county yesterday, yesterday were mayors around the public private partnership and mayors of the county centers. We agreed to have a similar meeting in the same composition in the fall. One of those topics could be this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67927	Representative Antun Kavrljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67928	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not happy with the answer because I don't see any shifts and you said one of those topics could be this one and you didn't say it would be. And I can only give you one community. It is the municipality of Djurdjevac and because of the difference in political attitudes to the sports hall will probably never reach the point of time until I ask them not to send more students to school until some kind of pedagogical standard is reached. That's it, let's say. And as for the very story that political and fiscal is completely one and the other. In this case, it's both. Because without one or the other, it should be dealt with together.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67929	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67930	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic, and that is what it says. Borovo d.d. from Vukovar is a universal follower of the former combined tires and shoes of Borovo. Before the war, Borovo had 22,000 employees, of which 16 thousand were in Vukovar or 18 thousand in the Republic of Croatia. Today, Borovo employs a thousand 150 employees. The big problem is possible is the biggest debt today, Borova d.d. to the state and he can be considered a consequence of the war. He's a real war damage, not possible state support. War damage is otherwise estimated at 300m euros. That is why resolving these key problems, the issue of the company's continued survival, as well as the condition of growth, development and new employment. Borovo has a number of unnecessary properties outside the factory circle. By transferring these properties to the Croatian Privatisation Fund and with a value of about 70 million kuna, fiduciation from other properties would be downloaded. It's one of Borov's proposals. The question is whether the ministry is taking or will take certain steps to address the problem of Borovo d.d.?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67931	Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67932	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament! Yes, MP, the Ministry of Economy and take over and will continue to address the Borov problem because Borovo is important not only for Vukovar-Srijem County and a thousand 150 employees. It is a company and a company that is important for the Croatian state. There are several problems you've been talking about. In several meetings and working arrangements at the Ministry of Economy, it was agreed with the administration to prepare a restructuring and rehabilitation programme. In fact, the proposal made is not in line with the State Aid Act, it must be in line with that. The instructions were received by the management. We expect the programme to be developed soon as it should be so that the ministry can forward it to a further procedure. What is the problem and what is the possibility of solving the debt problem is certainly both the real estate and the excess real estate that Borovo has that can be used for the economic purposes of others in Vukovar. And I'm glad that there are already projects to use these properties. So we can make double use. As a result, this debt of 61 million 593 thousand kuna towards the fund and has been extended by the end of the year in order to create a restructuring programme and to find a model for resolving that debt, solving the property that is excess and burdening Borovo, but also to put these clear properties into economic function as much as possible. Another problem that you haven't mentioned the problem and electricity connection, the resuscitation of the connection. The deal with HEP has been made. HEP is preparing projects. The first phase of realization of the hep part will be this year. So in these coming months, I expect that we will get a programme of restructuring that meets what must be, which is the State Support Act. We'll pass it on. I am convinced that Borovo will implement the restructuring and rehabilitation programme by the end of the year clearly with the support of the Croatian Government and that he will be able to use the funds that this government is, and the ministry resolutely, this which I am at the head of and implement for the technological improvement of 20 million kuna funds for textiles, leather and footwear that we last year, this year and next year we will assign that these funds can then be activated in the function of developing further technological Borov and job security and for these 1150 employees and we believe both in the future and for new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67933	Vladimir Stengl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67934	Thank you. By solving these problems, the company would simply get air. Of course nobody dreams of 18 thousand employees there anymore. God forbid it's a reality, but reality is about three to three and a half thousand. There are also desires and knowledge in Borov for so... and what hiring an additional number would mean for the primary Vukovar-Srijem County I think it's too much to talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand, the break on the tape, the bell.]] Given your addition to my question, I am extremely pleased with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67935	Honorable representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67936	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Ministers. I refer the question to Minister Kalmeti and refers to the end of the last section of the Zagreb-Lipovac highway and the state border. I see the finals are on that stock at the end. I am interested in whether it will be before the deadlines are over and whether, according to announcements, the unofficial announcements, the opening of the last section of the Zagreb-State border highway with Vojvodina will be, will the road be officially opened on 30 June according to the announcements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67937	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67938	Thank you. And on the previous issue raised by the distinguished representative, I said that the programme for the construction of public roads in the Republic of Croatia, adopted by this government, is maintained by the planned dynamics and that the works are completed even long before the deadline, as is the case here in this section of the highway from Županje to Lipovac. Namely, these last 30km on the 10 highway corridor passing through Croatia from the border with Slovenia to the border with Serbia, so their completion of these works was planned for 22.9 this month. And that part of the highway will be put on the market before the season, so it will be put on the market on June 30th, which means that that part of the highway was completed nearly 3 months before it was planned by deadlines. So here we are from the end of this week and on the eve of the main tourist season on that corridor, which is otherwise heavily burdened, we will have one situation that we will indeed have this entire corridor move from the border with Serbia to the border with Slovenia, so we will have a fully built and as I said almost three months before the deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67939	... Representative Ivica Clem. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67940	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am really happy that we managed to solve a significant infrastructure problem that was plagued by Vukovar-Srijem County because it was on that corridor that the biggest traffic jams were. In particular, this overload was felt by citizens living in the eastern part of Vukovar-Srijem County, so on the border. I believe that the end of the highway will create and assume and create for the rapid economic development of the eastern part of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67941	Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67942	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Madam Minister and Minister. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosoro. The illegal weapons in Croatia are still very present, and we have recently witnessed the use of illegal weapons resulting from the terrible violence in which a young girl was killed and the killer then took his own life. How do you comment on a tragic event in front of a children's home in Nazor?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67943	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67944	Thank you very much. Dear Madam MPs, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, how do I comment? Well, same as you, as the entire Croatian public, shriveled, horrified. There has been a terrible, tragic event that has once again alerted us to the fact that we are witnesses of domestic violence and the fact that domestic violence is most unfortunately violence against women and against children we must uncompromisingly condemn daily and daily, of course, steps to reduce that evil. I think bullies must indeed be publicly marked, publicly foretold. He must not treat them and there can be no mercy. That is why it is precisely because of such an attitude that is therefore uncompromising where it does not agree that it is some sort of "gentlmental" delicacy, so I often repeat violence against women this government has also taken a number of concrete measures. I'll list among other things here's a strategy to fight domestic violence. It's in this document that I have right in front of me. There is also a protocol on the conduct of domestic violence. So a protocol that obliges all state bodies, especially the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and all others, to concrete measures and steps in the event of domestic violence. So it can't happen under this Protocol anymore that when a woman calls and says she's a victim of a bully to have anyone shake hands and say, "That's your private matter." Yet, of course, we are witnessing sad, terrible examples of violence. That's why we've taken extra measures. Now we've recently debated in the Government about the Arms Act where we've clearly installed the provision. I believe it will support the Croatian Parliament in a warm way. So that all those thugs who have a felony or criminal act, who have been reported for a crime or crime, will not be able to obtain weapons in the family. And I think it's the right decision. Here's what I'm calling on the MPs to back it up. We've brought other measures. For example, we decided to declare September 22nd a national day against violence against women. It's one symbolic act around, but national day has few countries in the world. There is an international day, that is, International Day against Violence Against Women. We went one step further. We're taking other steps in sensitizing the public. But it seems to me in this particular case that it is still in certain segments, and it will certainly show the investigation we have requested in the sense that everyone has not strictly adhered to the protocol of domestic violence. What does that mean? The protocol clearly states that when violence occurred and, among other things, the victim of violence and the child, the Centre for Social Care, needs to think carefully about banning a violent parent from accessing a child. I don't think that was the case in this case. So, I repeat again. The government has shown that it wants to curb domestic violence. The government's here to be honest. She brought a series of documents. In this, it will also, of course, be appropriate to keep the documents that we have brought, especially in order for all those who are obliged to do so. Finally, I would like to say that, after the necessary analysis and the Law on combating violence in the family, we are in the position that this law should be amended, complemented and, of course, made the system even more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67945	Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67946	Thank you for your response, Madam Vice President. I believe that you will continue to be as warm as you are so far in favour of fighting domestic violence especially against violence against women and children, and so will the law that is in the procedure and the Arms Act that will contribute to such unfavorable events being reduced as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67947	Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67948	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Mr. Kalmeta, what you intend to take towards the boaters whose ships carry the stone from Sibenik to Italy and lower the balasic waters at the port of Sibenik and pollute the Adriatic Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67949	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67950	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam MPs, the problem of balasic waters is one problem that is dealt intensively with by the World Maritime Organisation and it is present everywhere, and it is particularly dangerous and this problem is significant for such seas as the Adriatic that are practically closed seas. In this respect, an International Convention on the Control and Management of Ships' Balasic Waters and Sediments took place in which Croatia participated and very actively. At this time, it is in the process of ratifying this convention. However, so that we do not wait and wait for this ratification, and according to the uprising that we have in the Maritime Code that this House has voted we have written a rule prohibiting the landing of ballast waters into the inner sea and the territorial sea. This rule will go to the National Journal for publication these days and will then enter into force, and this Regulation very strictly defines and regulates the question of balasic waters in the internal sea waters of the Republic of Croatia in a way that all these waters will be sampled, that all those containing more organisms than those prescribed by the Institute of Osseography and Fisheries will not be allowed to change such balasic waters in the Republic of Croatia. They'll have to do it somewhere else, whether somewhere on the high seas or somewhere in the Mediterranean Sea it'll even be a technical issue of boaters. But in any case, this rule that we bring first of all the countries that are here in the Adriatic and as well as one of the first countries that normally adopts one such rule, in any case, we will end up with this one problem that is indeed and can be great. It is smaller when it comes to the Adriatic ports, because the Adriatic is one sea closed, but it can certainly be great when it comes to balasic waters brought by ships from other parts of the world. Therefore, I think we are the issue, i.e. we will solve it very quickly if not one of the first countries and define it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67951	Representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67952	He looks forward to the fact that your ministry and the entire government are taking appropriate measures, the more so, at the International Conference on the Protection of the Adriatic Sea from the sudden pollution in Trogir, Inspector of the Rijeka port captain Milivo Andrak said that until today, no case of balasic water pollution has been reported in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. I hope that is the way it will be in the future and that all available measures will be taken to avoid the pollution of ballast waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67953	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67954	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government. I refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr. Primorac. The basic prerequisite for success in the 21st century is education that is the driver of promotion of knowledge-based economies and societies. You planned to change the education system to make it compatible with the European Union education system. The aim is to train and operate under current conditions, but also to act under unpredictable circumstances that require more and more knowledge and application of the same. In 49 primary schools, the Croatian national educational standard applies. We are at the end of the school year and follow-up, estimating the quality of education, validity, conditions for achieving the goals of the Croatian National Education Standard. I am also interested in asking you to respond to the results after one year of application of the Croatian National Education Standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67955	Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67956	Your Honor, Mr. President, MP. Probably one of the words that worked with Igor Pilar Institute is probably one of the largest social analyses was generally made precisely with the Croatian national educational standard, and it will best tell you that the data is tested, analyzed about 13000 students, about 13000 parents, 3000 teachers and 97 directors. These deep values were analysed, deep cobative tests, tests socializing but also those knowledge tests in order to determine the true truth in that year how these 49 schools compared to the control group acted and what the results were in the end. What is really important in short is to say from a large study that the Croatian national educational standard as a Bologna is in small so we call it where it has the centre of attention of students, students who have been focused from the beginning on gaining lasting knowledge, who is relieved and who is focused on lifelong learning, the results have shown that students from so on. HNOS schools achieve better results at all levels. Let me give you an example. Of the approximately 26 thousand tests analysed, the knowledge tests in eight subjects compared to three results were immeasurably better in students attending HNOS schools. For example. Math 1, Croatian 3, nature and society 3, English language 4, chemistry 7, chemistry 8, mathematics 8 and music culture 8, we're talking about classes. But the HNOS also showed some of the problems we need to change. For example. There is still too much encyclopaedic content in the fifth grade that is still overloaded. HNOS also pointed out that the best way to organise schools is in one shift where most HNOS schools have worked in this way to achieve far better results. HNOS has shown that a number of professional associates should be employed, but HNOS has also shown that there has been a critical employment of nearly a thousand and 100 people in the primary education system so far. Furthermore, extremely important, I would also say critically, the student attitude towards school. Far better at HNOS schools. The relationship of teachers-teachers far better at HNOS schools and children with much greater joy go to HNOS school. Since HNOS is a Croatian brand and that at the moment HNOS is translated into English, some other countries are studying it. We think that in the ninth month when the entire primary school goes to HNOS, it's not going to be easy, of course. We have a few years to coordinate the system on one shift, about hiring new people, but HNOS is the future of Croatian education and this test has shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67957	Thank you... becomes the main factor of success. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] What makes me happy is that these children no longer have such encyclopaedic data that they had to do without logic. And apparently, according to this HNOS, they have more time to create, to work on their own, and I believe that this knowledge will become everyday and really empower those children for further education and lifelong learning and what is the most important entrepreneurial spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67958	Dear Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67959	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I would ask a question about Mr Tadic's arrival in Croatia today. I don't mean Tadic sitting on my right, who just asked questions about the Republic of Croatia, but the Serbian president who is visiting Croatia today and who will meet with you, Mr. President, according to media signs, if he isn't already. Surely this is an opportunity to ask a question about some internal issues that may be raised at this meeting. As is known in Croatia, the visa regime for Serbia is still valid. But we are also witnessing that perhaps the result of this visible regime and the fact that Serbian criminals are also increasingly present in Croatia, which we can finally read about by means of newspaper inscriptions, and even doubts that some more brutal crimes have just been committed by criminals from outside the Republic of Croatia. The other thing, of course, is the question of boundaries. I hope and believe that at this meeting, and you as Prime Minister, too, will firmly open the issue of the border towards Serbia in order to finally move the issue from a dead end. Because you know and we all know that the question of the Charengrad Ade is the general issue of the Danube border at one stage of not solving and it would not be good to repeat the story with Slovenia where we have come almost to a dead end, except perhaps those institutes that we have at our disposal. So my question, Mr. President, in the direction of whether these topics will, therefore, also be about cooperation with Croatia with the Serbian police on whether crime prevention will be achieved a more significant level and whether there will be talks on the visa regime between Croatia and Serbia, in particular whether you will open the issue and models of resolving border issues between Croatia and Serbia at today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67960	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67961	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I'm sure all these questions you mentioned will be the subject of our meeting. I will have with the Serbian president at 11:30, at the time of the break so I have arranged with the President of the Parliament, a half-hour meeting and go back, but also topics such as co-operation, cross-border co-operation between the two police on the crackdown of organised crime and on the borders. But not from, we won't be opening the border issue. For us, there's no way it's gonna be open at all. The border issue was resolved by finding the Badinter Commission in '91. declared... No, no, well, she declared that the borders of the new states are the borders of the former Socialist republics. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In Belgrade, some would therefore like to move the borders, not to be like it was before, because there is much more on the left hand side of the Danube Croatian countries than on the right hand side of the Danube, we know that. And these are the boundaries that were at the time of the former Yugoslavia. Some would like the border to be in the middle of the Danube. That's out of the question today. Therefore, the issue of borders has been resolved for us. We hope, and I will tell President Tadic, we hope that this approach will prevail in Serbia, because no other one is in question. So we won't, what we can arrange is that the state commission, and that will be my proposal, that the interstate border commission goes into border identification, that meter by meter exactly, so to move into border identification. But there's no moving the border from those right borders on the Danube middle line. And what I'm going to ask in particular is a matter of prisoners and missing persons that we still have about a thousand 138 and because we think it's extremely important that we settle these humanitarian issues as soon as possible. Families grieve for their loved ones, hope dies last. Maybe people are hoping for someone else alive, probably not, but we want to solve this most important humanitarian tragedy that we know the truth, because the truth needs to know all the families. ... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67962	Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67963	So I am Mr. President of the Croatian Government in principle satisfied with the answer, especially the starting positions you will have in the talks. And I agree that Badinter's commission is what we all know has set practically international borders for both Croatia and Serbia in relation to us. That is why the issue of solutions to occupied areas such as the Charengrad Ada is raised. So we agree that Badinter's finding is what pleases us. However, there is no realisation that we as a state control our own space. And that's why I expect you to ask a special question of the Charengrad Ade today at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67964	Honorable representative Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67965	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. I refer the question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Professor Ljubic. On 26 May 2006, a preliminary cooperation agreement was signed between the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Eurotransplant International Foundation, which launched co-operation on the international exchange of transplant bodies. Today, when it is possible to transplant 25 different organs and tissues and in view of the growing importance of treating patients whose organ transplant is the only way of healing, and in the year when we mark the 35th anniversary of the first kidney transplant in the Republic of Croatia in Rijeka in 1971, which will mean signing this contract for the development of our already affirmed transplant centres, I mean Zagreb and Rijeka and a series of medical centres where there are already expansion teams, and what can patients expect to need this treatment in the Republic of Croatia? I mean availability, safety and waiting time for surgery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67966	Minister of Health Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67967	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. It is true, therefore, that the only small correction was not a preliminary contract, it is a real contract, but for a year since we are likely to become a full member of the Eurotransplant. It is an absolutely great event that we have signed on the day that we have dedicated, which was also the decision of the Croatian Parliament National Day, so transplant medicine in Croatia. Why do I say big event? First, a major event for the profession itself because many countries, and some of them are now members of the European Union who wanted to join Eurotransplant, have not met all the criteria for entering this prestigious transplant association and the largest association in Europe. Croatia managed to fulfill this after about a year and a half, by bringing together a number of experts from these countries, evaluating the transplant system in Croatia, and finally after we managed to bring it together fully into line with their green light and resulting in this contract. But what's most important of all is this question you asked, which is what it brings for our citizens, so for our patients who need a transplant? At this moment, a huge number of patients are waiting for a kidney transplant, around 20% of them are waiting for more than 10 years and there is no question of the waiting list because Croatia cannot transplant that kidney but is a question of coincidence. Namely, they are immunologically sensitive and need to be found an adequate organ. It is impossible for small countries like Croatia who have 4 and a half million inhabitants to find such an appropriate kidney because the frequency of certain immunological types is extremely rare and that is why the goal is to get into such associations to allow our citizens to get such a kidney, and that is when we announced and clearly said, and what I want to say here is clearly what they supported and all associations of transplanted and dialysis patients in Croatia, and that is that for the first time we will have the possibility that all of them highly immunised patients will be transplanted in due time. And just here's another word, given that you mentioned our transplant centres here today and here I would look back on the recent success of Rijeka's transplant medicine not only the kidney, the first transplanted liver, we will do it, and in the system of politistic development that we have presented here in the Croatian Assembly, in the context of a national strategy, support and perhaps just one more reference to today's signs that have gone. Rijeka medicine and the quality of health care provided at the Clinical Hospital Center of Rijeka is absolutely increasing and increasing. Here's a few days ago, the first graph was set, so the first one was a classic substitute for a corrupt aorta. I'd just like to say that this kind of procedure in one Austria that has twice the population is working in only two places.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67968	Representative Kajo Butjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67969	I thank Mr. Minister for his reply and I am convinced that this cooperation agreement will also bring us positive experiences of the developed world and the public's trust in this way of treatment, while also moving Croatia from one ungrateful position to only 9 donated bodies per million inhabitants, because the establishment of both a secure system and cooperation will be gained and trust among our citizens to move more on the European scale and in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67970	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67971	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President and members of the Croatian Government. I ask Minister Kalmeti a question about the investments of Croatian roads in the area of Varazdin County. In the last few months, in the state roads in Varazdin County, there has been an unsustainable crowd and congestion caused by construction, reconstruction, expansion or reconstruction of more shares. Mr. Minister, please answer me what and on what parts of the state road in Varazdin County is doing, which is already completed, what is the new preparation, what are the deadlines for completion of the construction or reconstruction and what are the amounts of the investment of the state-owned Croatian road company with the mentioned investments in the Varazdin County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67972	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67973	I thank you, Mr. Representative, there is much to be done and prepared and done, and a lot is done when it comes to state roads in Varazdin County. If you start counting now I think that would take a lot of time, I'll just say a few irrelevant things. About half a billion kuna is invested in road construction in Varazdin County and on various shares, from the bypass that is already completed to the second stage of the Varazdin bypass, which alone costs about 195 million kuna to a whole series of road reconstructions through Batterment 1, through the Batterment 2 programme through the extraordinary maintenance of roads such as the road I don't know the D-24 shares of... to the Varazdin spas, the Varazdin spas-Tuhovec etc., the whole series of reconstructions of the intersections in Varazdin itself and reconstruction of the state road D-510 etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I suggest, if you agree with this, that we ask for it and that Croatian roads indeed give one written reply through the ministry, then the ministry will send you a written reply with exactly all of the activities that are done in Varazdin County and when in terms of preparation and when in terms of building maintenance and what is finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67974	Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67975	Thank you. I'm satisfied with the answer for the fact that you don't remember this high level of investment. I remind you, you also mentioned the data so almost half a billion kuna, so this is not really remembered in an independent Croatia, and especially not before that it will all contribute to traffic discharge and the city of Varazdin and greater traffic security in general in one of the most densely populated parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67976	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67977	It's a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, last time I asked you where the $6 million went missing in a transaction between Split's Shkver and the four-ship Cypriot contractor. You said it wasn't a bad contract. You didn't answer my question even though you were talking about everything and everything. Now I've got your written, government written response, a written response saying it's not a harmful contract. And secondly, there are six million U.S. dollars in question, in no case is it justified to treat them as missing even though you yourself called them questionable. Meanwhile, the whole thing involved Interpol, the FBI, the Austrian Ministry of Interior, and I'm surprised by your response. Mr. Prime Minister, I am in possession of a document from the Austrian Ministry of Interior sent four months ago to the Ministry of Interior for a letter in which the case is suspected of money laundering. He's referring to this transaction. So you knew this because I doubt this was on mine before on your desk. You knew about this four months ago, you didn't answer anything. Now you answer to me that there is no doubt that it is a harmful, potentially harmful contract, that the money is not gone. And you know what happened on this paper? That's a good one. The money went from Split to Cyprus, from Cyprus to Graz, from Graz to Zagreb. They're back home. I ask you who they have returned to, Mr. Prime Minister, and do you feel personally responsible for everything that has happened about this and for the way you misinformed the Croatian public while the Ministry of Interior even their spokesman has denied the Split Police Administration, says the investigation is not finished, the work and the investigative activities are still ongoing, it cannot be said that there is nothing. The government claims otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67978	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67979	Well, I think you, Mr. Representative, have now answered the best of your questions. And you said the investigation wasn't complete and you still don't know. And now you would, what would you want from me? Like last time, so we got in a little bit of water where I wanted to remind you that that's how it was done in the past system, but it's not going to happen in this damn thing. You're not going to be an Arbitrarian Maximus who without justice, without investigation, without these institutions investigating what happened. Where did you get the right to be in the rule of law after the communism that went by and where your uncle was doing what you're doing now, I was hoping you'd reformed yourself. Unfortunately, you're not. Yeah, yeah, 'cause that's how it used to be. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thus, Baja Jurjevic accused and convicted people without a rule of law. I quote that she wrote "Free" three days ago. That's exactly what she wrote, that without any court, without a charge, without a defense, she accused people and shot them. The time in Croatia is over, Mr. Representative Bajevic. Baja Jurjevic, short for Bajević. So please be nice. Let all of you quote that letter. Of course we do, but that letter says that all the shops are still under investigation. So let everything be explored. That's what I said. But I object, and as long as I can get as far as I can with your insinuations as you want before all relevant information about this case happens and the information we have is that the contract wasn't harmful and that's why you got such a contract. It's also from the board of directors' session and from the unions and from everyone else involved. The workers of Split's Shkver who are at my heart more than you have this opinion as well. Therefore, as long as you do not complete the investigation, you will judge, and how long you will behave in this way. I think it's extremely undemocratic, that it's extremely communist, what else am I going to say about it, that's how it used to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67980	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67981	Okay, when... They end up saying something to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can see you haven't gone any further than the way you last spoke that totally discredits you not only as Prime Minister, Prime Minister, but as a man, but that's your business. I won't mention your family again, I won't mention it to you. But where did you get the right, Mr. Prime Minister, to put yourself above the law, and in this way you answer to the parliamentary representative, and here you claim there is nothing suspicious. You're telling yourself that the investigation is ongoing. Imagine, you watched, you probably went to the movies when you were younger and watched the movie "Lessy's Coming Home". He's back, my lord. And these money's some kind of Lassie. He's back home. It's only a question of who the master is. And answer more Croatian citizens where the money is. Answer that and don't talk Mark's finals about other people's families, learn to be polite, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67982	Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67983	Mr. President, question for Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, after the interpretation of the SDP in "Vjesnik" which has raised the question of the obvious destruction of this news house in favour of the newly formed company, which of course has no mortgage "Vjesnik" but therefore has all its assets and the simultaneous conversion of the newspaper "Vjesnik" into your party note. What we had in mind now appears in the darkest edition. The "Vjesnik" cleans journalists by intimidation, chicaning, suspensions with relevant jobs, the transfer of prominent journalists to traineeships or minors and annexes. It covers a dozen unspeakable journalists. One of the most prominent journalists, otherwise, to the editor-in-chief who dared to speak critically publicly about the silent liquidation of the Vesnik, is now even explicitly forbidden to write. Some other media have also reported lawsuits. Mr. Prime Minister, you have publicly stated in your time that "Vesenik" is a brand that needs to be preserved. Do you imagine that the preservation of the "brand" Vjesnik goes: One, through the usurpation of property for sale as it is now obvious, and what is spoken of publicly. And secondly, by turning the rest of this once-reputable list into a party note with a cleanup of unscathed journalists and intimidation of other journalists. Your attitude, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67984	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67985	My point is that I have no knowledge of what you said, Mr. Representative, and I reject it as insinuations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67986	Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67987	Mr. Prime Minister, I would expect the Prime Minister to be directed to what the newspapers write about and that he is addressed to events in the list and in the company since you signed a recent response that you have literally taken from the administration's response to the impediment. I guess you had to know this. If you don't know this, then I'm interested in how you behave in this function in this very important sector and as far as media freedom is concerned, in terms of the protection of one social value, one of the public values created in the Vjesnik, which you now have a calm soul in this House, you say you have no idea. It's sad! Well, then, then find out what's going on and give me a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67988	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67989	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia Dimitrij Rupel dealt in publishing and published the White Paper. As always, the interest of the media and the public political speech in Croatia has been given the most attention and the debates have led to a controversial border in the Savudrija vala. Out to sea, triangle, line, open sea yes or no? Because of those in Croatia who have been claiming for years that the border problem with Slovenia Croatia must be resolved before international institutions and based on international documents that speak of the law of the sea and only the law must remind you and quote what it says in the White Paper when it comes to the borders on other waters, on Mura. I quote: "In determining the border in the Mura Slovenija River area, it advocates that it should be determined according to the factual state on 25 June 1991. Although the Catastrian area belongs to Croatia, there is evidence that Slovenia has exercised jurisdiction in that area on that date. This new moment, followed by the Slovenian public and politicians, has always proposed under quotes to replace territory because the border in the area has 16 times crossed the Mura River. Citing the godless jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia, and apparently it is the left bank of the Mura, on which Croatia has eight times more territories than Slovenia on the right bank in those pockets, I am making this statement by Minister Rupel and that White Book, I interpret that their proposal is now to keep the border on the Mura River. I can't understand anything else. I am familiar with the fact that the border in that area has been identified, determined in nature and on paper. I ask you if the Croatian Government is ready to publish a map, precise maps of border line territory where identification was made together with Slovenia and Croatia to remove all the concerns that occur on this part of the border that is not so interested in the Croatian political public but us in Međimurje very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67990	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67991	Mr. Representative. Mr. Representative, it is not true that it is not interested in the Croatian public. [[Intruder: Peace!]] Absolutely interested. The fact that the Savadria wave is in focus is because of the vast majority of media inscriptions that write about it. But absolutely to make sure that the Croatian public is absolutely interested and the Croatian border is not on Drava but on Mura. Hence, through Mura. Through Mura. So, uh, about what Rupel wrote in the White Book, there's everything and everything. We gave the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the International Legal Service to make a summary of this. To give us the most important things. But right now we're throwing that White Book away because she's one, I'd call it a political approach to solving these problems. We know all their arguments. For 15 years, that's what we've been discussing. So there's no way that something that Rupel wrote down in the White Book would happen. And I just want to convince you of one thing. We will answer the White Paper not only because it's some kind of sports or some kind of combat approach but we will answer our arguments in the Blue Book, I've called it the Blue Book but not with all the arguments. Some of them will also be left for international legal institutions because I hope that Slovenia will finally get the strength to accept the proposal that the Croatian Government made last October after meeting with all the leaders of the parliamentary parties where we proposed... We are two friendly countries regardless of these open issues but we don't want to buy this friendship with our territory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's out of the question for us. So friendship, yes, buying friendship with territory is not a solution unless we can achieve it and obviously after 15 years we cannot reach a bilateral agreement that would be just and just. We propose going out with international judicial institutions. We expect that Slovenia will respond positively to this in, and until then we will publish our arguments in response to this book.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67992	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67993	I'm sorry I didn't get an answer whether the exact cards will be published where the border line is identified? They will? Great. Then I'd have to remind you of something else. Citing jurisdiction, otherwise there were no citizens of Međimurje on the left bank of Mura jurisdiction on those days around 25 June 1991, if we understood each other. In the territory of Croatian waters there is still a Slovenian skeleton. I'm afraid that the scale still in use tomorrow could be proof of Slovenian jurisdiction in that part of Mura [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67994	The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67995	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with all ministers and vice presidents. Allow me to address the question, even though it was originally intended for Minister Cobankovic, but since he is not present, then allow me to refer the question to you. In these hot summer days past the heat of our peasants, there are two vital problems. First, when will a harvest be done without a cramp at a freely formed market price, but with a stimulating incentive of over 2,600 kuna per hectare? And secondly, when will farmers be able to make production more competitive by rounding up family economies by buying state agricultural land? We have the law, we have the criteria and the criteria but the land is not available because the Ministry of Agriculture does not give consent to the programmes available, does not give consent to competitions. The land books are unsettled and not in line with the real state. Despite the agreement signed on 17.3.2006 with the Croatian Peasants' Union and the Committee of Agricultural Associations on the removal of bottlenecks in the land availability process, the Government has so far done almost nothing at least according to me available information. I ask when the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, in accordance with the signed agreement, remove these defined problems and enable our peasants to purchase agricultural land. I want to believe that the promises themselves will not slip away until the free competition of foreign capital in which our peasants unfortunately don't stand a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67996	Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67997	I'm sorry, I told the Prime Minister there's no minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67998	The question has been asked by the Minister, if there is no Minister, the Secretary of State. It can't be moved.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u67999	That's not it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68000	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Surely one of the most important actions that should be done now in the coming period is... Here I can say that today at 12 o'clock a meeting will be held with representatives of associations, cooperatives and organizers of wheat production at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is one point, and this is the preparation and organisation of the 2006 wheat purchase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do everything possible to ensure that this operation can be called "do what's right" and that all goes well. I wouldn't be talking about any numbers or numbers or prices today. Let's let his first date take place today and see what we can do. I believe that everything will be settled properly in both the interest and the state, as well as in the interest of the wheat producer. What you said about the use of agricultural land. The government is doing a lot of things that here are every meeting of the Government of a certain concession, leases are given to individual associations or individuals. However, there are a lot of problems in the property-legal situation, and there are also a lot of problems in local self-government units. So that part should be started, that they give the initiative and that these surfaces are given neatly according to competitions either for leases, or for concessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68001	Representative Dragutin Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68002	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the answer you gave didn't satisfy me, so I have to say that so far there have been a lot of promises and so far signed agreements. I'll just remind you of one sentence from the signed agreement. The government of the Republic of Croatia will send a rush to all actors in the process of selling state agricultural land to speed up sales. I don't know if this haste has been sent, but apparently there's not enough political will for all of us to know that without rounding up agricultural land and regulating the market, the peasants will be left to themselves and the enormous imports that destroy them daily. So is it a big problem to speed up the process of issuing consent at the Ministry of Agriculture and to allocate smaller financial resources or in some other way to help with the handling of land books? There's not much time. The door of the European Union is almost open. We don't expect anyone else to solve our problems in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68003	Representative of the Honorable Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68004	I refer my question to Prime Minister Sanader. Mr. Sanader, your government took an oath on December 23, 2003, and with today, you are in total power for 916 days. In those 916 days, according to official data in the ministry, you hired 1212 employees on the job as a consultant, not every day, but every day, your authority, every day, means on Saturdays and Sundays and holidays, and when you were on vacation and when you did not hire an average of 1.3 counselors a day. What does it look like to the ministries? The finance ministry has hired 360 advisers so far, and if it continues at this pace they will be more than days a year by next week. Ministry of Defence 217 advisers, Ministry of Agriculture 97, Ministry of Culture 43, Ministry of Foreign Affairs 26. The least counsellors have the Department of Defense only 3 and, as you know, you seem to have gone and Beštek with whom you have advertised and photographed yourself in front of the cameras seems to have only two left. They're just advisors in the ministries, and when we add up the rest of your party friends you've taken care of on the state's manger, it turns out that half of the 18,000 newly employed employees are that way. Is my question to you? Did you promise to run Croatia or did you promise to hire all the unemployed HDZ people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68005	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68006	Mr. Stazic, you have made us extremely happy with such a very humorous approach and I really congratulate you on your literary talent. This talent, however, does not have much to do with real politics. He may be, he may be welcome to entertain some parliamentary representatives, that the government also relaxes a little on the current morning and that's good. It's a very human approach and I thank you for it. Maybe one that would be a little wider if you had time so on behalf of the SDP Club would talk about it, maybe even be worth one screening or one dramating, etc. So all this stuff you said has nothing to do with me coming to your insinuations. It has nothing to do with this government's policy. Nor is that number true that we've hired so many people, so many counselors. Only if you count that counselors are employed by those who engage in specific projects as consultants or in other functions for certain projects. But that's what every government does, and if that's what you're interested in, we can give an exact answer. But there aren't that many employees of counselors! So I think it's great to answer questions like this. I think it's more like a very, very virtuoso, I have to admit it to a very virtuoso acrobatic that doesn't have much to do with reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68007	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68008	Oh, no, no, Mr. Sanader. You can't be satisfied with the answer given like this. They're not primarily insinuations. It's official data, so when we're doing this in writing, you send an answer to the question of how many of them you took as employees of POA, and then you assign them to other jobs by different state institutions just to avoid a public tender. Please be nice, as much as with a name and a last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68009	We want to take one break half an hour to twelve. It's 11:00.32. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session and the current morning. Honorable representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68011	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking the question of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Dragan Primorac. On the occasion of the 300th anniversary of the work of Požega High School, the Croatian Government accepted the construction of a new school building and sports hall as its capital investment in the City of Požega and Požeko-Slavon County with 75% stake. In the last 3 years alone, according to the contract, 35 million kunas have been allocated in the Republic of Croatia's budget, of which the contractor for all of us known reasons has not used the means of security and they have failed for Poželjska high school, i.e. in the budget rebalancing, they have been rerouted to other investments. Given the well-known government policy of building schools and sports halls, the organisation of an educational process in one school shift is a focus of excellence in the development plan for education and education from 2005 to 2010. I ask when the Croatian government will finish building the high school building and sports hall in Požega. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68012	Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68013	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, you said very clearly about the reasons, and I would say now about the investment. It's an investment and you know it started in '99. A year. It is about 43 million kuna, of which the ministry covers about 32, and the issue remains of co-financing of the city and the county. Since so far only the works on the high school building have been carried out, and we could not have been on the sports hall building as you know it yourself because of the need for the restoration of the historical misery at the moment I think we have come to the stage to meet the conditions required by the Regional Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments and we are actually in the preparation of a new competition. And these days, we are meeting with local self-government leaders to launch a public competition according to new principles and to ensure that high school in Požega, given the means provided throughout the dynamics as we predict for the school year to come, means the next school year, not this one, but the one there in 2007 at 9 months. And we believe that if we step up, and trust me that at least two of my assistants are now working, one from, the third assistant from the cabinet clean and only on this project to really make this extremely important building that, I repeat, since '99. The year of what, was over in time. Because the money's secure. And this public competition goes into me I'd say in a very nearly time period, and you'll be notified of it. I must say that I have visited the building on two occasions so far, and this will be a great contribution to what we have pointed out, which is that in 2010 the Croatian education system is the most competitive and dedicated to regional parts, not only to centres of excellence that are already recognised in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68014	Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68015	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, the existing high school building in which the teaching is now taking place is from 1877 and it does not meet the conditions of those that the ministry has drawn. And here I would also like to say that according to the arrangements reached, the old high school building would become a building of a university for which there are already programs and studies approved by the National Council and can be extended to, to the benefit of the entire požega end and in the interest of the development of the požešno end, a further system of university with teaching. I accept Mr. Secretary's response and thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68016	Thank you. Representative William Herman has given up asking a parliamentary question. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68017	Dear Mr. President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic. It refers to the promotion of production in the accession process to the European Union. And the question would have been. What concrete projects within the framework of small and medium-sized enterprises are carried out by the ministry, and what measures and how does it encourage production?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68018	Thank you. Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68019	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, this is a very short and precise question, Your Honor, MP. The answer should be very long, actually, because you're talking about... the promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and they are indeed a large number. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're mostly directed towards production. Namely, in the programme, the economic programme of this Croatian government and carried out by my ministry as a resolute ministry of production stands out as a key part of the development of our economy. I don't think I have to explain specifically to you what production means. If we're talking about exports, then we need to talk about domestic production. If we are talking about strengthening competitiveness, quality and job creation, then we really need to talk about production. I, I just want to remind everyone once again that just last year we achieved the first concrete results when it comes to production. If we also talk about encouraging investment and investment in Croatia for the first time last year, more than 50% of the investment was the manufacturing sector. If we are talking about the opening of new crafts and small businesses for the first time, the majority and number of these open new businesses or crafts, so new entrepreneurs in the manufacturing sector. This is particularly important in the context of what you have been saying to join the European Union, because there is, in fact, a question of competitiveness, a key issue. and through a series of projects of this government and this ministry, it is actually encouraged to invest in just raising the competitiveness of manufacturing companies, crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises. This year, as well as in previous years, through a series of projects, grants to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have also been targeted, and the analyses we have conducted in these two years as we implement the operational programme of small and medium-sized enterprises are just testifying that we have achieved what we wanted, which is that most of the funds are just being channelled into production and that is to raise competitiveness. Here are several very concrete statistical indicators based on analysis with concrete entrepreneurs. So in 2004 and 2005, the largest share of users of the support was from production activities, slightly less than 60%, and when we analyse what the incentive funds were spent, let's say for 2005, an analysis was made by 23.4% of entrepreneurs of the assets invested in the introduction and application of new technologies. Then, in 21.5% in marketing, 18% used means to introduce a quality system, 11.5% for product development, for commercialisation and innovation 3.5%, and slightly less than 7% of entrepreneurs invested in employee education. This is also a testimony, and if we look at another analysis that those entrepreneurs who used funds in 2004, the incentives made 12.6% higher total income in 2005, over 35% of the average wage growth, showed profits, increased profits of 9%, and decreased expenditure by 6%. Therefore, this year we have 15 million kuna grants of grants that we again focus on small-scale entrepreneurship, primarily from raising competitiveness for so-called new technologies, for education, for state development, for marketing, for applying innovation, and looking at all these results that we have achieved so far, all the indicators that we have not been surprised at then and what we have achieved in terms of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and what has also confirmed the gene project analysis that has been done in all the undeveloped countries of the world about the state of entrepreneurship where we have been practically since 2003 when we came to the centre of the table table for the development of entrepreneurship and that is what encourages us to continue on this road and that truly small-centre entrepreneurship is ready to wait for Croatia to enter the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68020	Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68021	I thank the Minister for the answer, although the question was relatively brief, and of course the answer can be very, very long, but from this data that the minister said I think we can read about the government and the ministry's efforts to encourage, invests further in production, to improve this sector without which there is no general progress. Of course we can never be satisfied with the existing state, but it's important to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68022	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68023	Mr. President, I ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader, but since he's not here, then I ask him to answer the question of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. In the work and business of Požega-Slavonska County, there was unfortunately severe violation and violation of more laws than the Budget Law, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and the Law on the System of Local and Regional Self-Government, through laws governing accounting and financial operations, etc. Secondly, this House discussed a report by the State Audit Office for 2004 in which a number of irregularities in financial operations such as the Požega-Slavon County were identified for the Požega County. lack of records, irregular documentation, unintended use of funds of decentralised functions, lack of control and verification of dedicated use of credit funds transferred to the County Roads Authority, procedures relating to issuing guarantees, conclusion of a guarantee contract, i.e. insurance of claims, procurement procedures, unlawful lending, etc. so that, in its report, the State Audit, among other things, has found, I quote: "So the resources available in the future can result in the inability to complete and... to meet the public needs given in the jurisdiction of local and regional (regional) self-government units.", finished quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This circumstance was warned by council clubs in the then opposition now after the extraordinary elections, the situation changed with its warnings, the requirements for permanent control and control, and even by filing criminal charges. Since under our Law on the System of State Administration, state authorities are responsible for the adverse consequences of their work or failures, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not acted in accordance with the legal obligations of the Požega-Slavon County... the work and actions of the bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government have resulted in the consequences of the further functioning of the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unlawful and unwitting business has practically caused damages of 342 million and so I ask what will the Government do to settle damages, sanction irresponsible persons, initiates, or initiates the determination of their responsibility, and the illegality and finally deviations in Požega-Slavon County, and creates preconditions for normal and regular work? Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68024	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68025	... Honored Mr. Representative and Vice-President of the House as you know this Government, the prime minister stands up for the functioning of the rule of law, so the Government will respect and find the State Audit and, of course, take up the role of all units of local administration and self-government, as well as the Požega-Slavon County. [[Specially enabled.]] Since you've listed a lot of what it really is, I don't know how to tell others, but at one point it was hard for me to follow because you've listed a series of facts and let me also personally convince myself of everything you've been telling me to write to you on the government's behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68026	Vice-President and representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68027	Madam Vice President, I agree with you that the government will respect the findings of the State Audit, but it does not act on them. I ask that these findings be handled and I ask a written answer to my asked representative's question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68028	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68029	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers and ministers, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I should have asked the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader, but I hope Mr. Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister, will answer this question. On March 27th of this year, two important agreements were reached for the retirement population in Croatia at a meeting of the Prime Ministers and Užeg cabinet presidents with representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners and pensioners' associations. First, an agreement has been reached to form a working group, the names of members who have to consider and propose any amendments and additions to the law implementing the Constitutional Court in order to compensate the beneficiaries of family and restricted pensions which are not covered by the calculation of compensation with a maximum period of one year. Secondly, an agreement has been reached to form a working group and to extend the proposed members to another 2 union representatives and one representative of the Croatian Employers' Association with the goal of discussing all deviations in the pension system with the aim of finding a solution for new pensioners, therefore retired after 1999. This task force should be located with dynamics and once a month. Mr Damir Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, appointed Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, for the responsible person and for handling these working groups. My question, of course, was addressed to the prime minister, as to why these working groups and over 90 days on today's day have not met and when this final, this dead line, is the deadline in which they have to meet and start working?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68030	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68031	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. MP. Well, it's true. At that time, a number of conclusions were reached in order to correct a major injustice and indeed to find solutions in a shorter period of time and to pay compensation to pensioners. And you and I are part of this task force, and as you know, if it is formally and does not meet, the fact is that the Management Board of the Pension Fund is constantly working on which they are the same members who are both members of the group and we are working intensively to find solutions. I'm an optimist. As we have found solutions to compensation 600 and more than 600 thousand pensioners in Croatia, so we will find solutions for what we missed, and perhaps also because of the fact that there is no anger, but representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners and pensioners did not notice it in time. This is therefore the problem of the highest pensions and family pensions. When we find solutions to everything else, I'm so sure we'll find solutions to these 43,000 pensioners. I believe that during the fall we will be able to propose a final model to the government and that with the payment of the compensation and those pensioners we will leave in time and will be satisfied. I'm not an optimist without cover. You know we already had some models on the table and discussed them, and one of them will probably be accepted. As for the Working Group and the Pension Reform Commission, however, I expect still a proposal in which the reform should go which is also agreed to come from representatives of pensioners' associations and the pensioners' party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68032	Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68033	Well, Mr. Vice President, I'm not satisfied with the answer or, in part, with the first question for the following reasons. First, I personally am not part of this task force that needs to find a solution to compensation for family pensions and limited pensions. Secondly, why is this question even asked to Prime Minister Sanader? Because after that meeting, we expected to get a list of working groups, i.e. the appointment of persons in working groups by the government. That appointment has not been made and I ask you to do it as soon as possible. Secondly, I think that since February 2005, the government has held the positions of retired associations on pension reform and pension system problems, so there is nothing to wait for. I ask the Prime Minister, however, to answer this question in writing when it is time for these working groups to start meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68034	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68035	Dear President, Ministers and Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I refer my question to the minister, Ms. Marina Matulovic-Dropulic. We will all agree with the claim that illegal construction is a serious problem. According to the ministry's estimates, which led you in the coastal area, more than 10,000 illegal buildings have been built. I am interested in why the law is not applied equally to everything and for example why it has not responded to the construction of the house of Mile Brajković in a protected coastal belt in Rogoznica or to the expansion of the Frapa marina in Rogoznica beyond all the criteria owned by Franjo Pasalić, or for example a complex owned by Pava Zubaca in Žrnovnica located in the area of Nature Park "Velebit". Please give us the criteria on the basis of which your ministry decides to remove illegally built buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68036	Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Well, I've already said many times that our only criterion is an illegal building facility, so an object that doesn't have a building permit. However, we have priorities. Priorities in the destruction of illegally built buildings are protected belts such as national parks, nature parks, protected coastal area, then protected cultural and natural values. Then, maritime well-being and infrastructure belts. So, only our demolition goes to those areas. Everything that could be legalized by spatial plans didn't go down for now because we want to allow people to come to these spatial plans, to bring all the spatial plans. What I have to say and what I've told you many times already. When we began to exercise power, we had completed 76 spatial plans of 555. Today we have 466. I think it's been done a hell of a lot and that we've made it possible for people to legalise everything that can be based on regulations and the basis of a regulation on a protected coastal area. So we're waiting for these other plans to end, and those plans that are over there, we're already on our way to action. As for Mr. Brajkovic, Mr. Brajkovic has a building permit and what is a problem, but that's what the law says after a year has passed since the finality of the building permit we can no longer go to the cancellation of the building permit. So by the time we got here, it's been a year since he had a final building permit. As far as the Cereals are concerned, you've got it wrong. There, and we destroyed certain facilities in the area where Mr. Zubak built it, so we were there, doing our job. And that part we didn't take down has neat building permits. As far as the Frapa marina is concerned, we did not allow further construction and the maritime inspector reacted and went to destroy what was in the sea itself, which was in the sea itself because it was not the building inspection that was responsible for it, but this inspection. Therefore, to everything that we receive requests and what we cannot react alone because what I have to say unfortunately we have 148 building inspectors. Of that, 127 of them are on district units, which is far too small for us to have over 250 systematicized ones, but we just can't get them. So people are in the field, they're out there all the time, and where we see something happening, or where we get the notice, we react immediately. We're doing it right now on Long Island and in Cornate. So wherever we get some kind of, some indication that something's going on, we're going out. But the most important thing is that the spatial plans, which in 2002 unfortunately were deleted by the start of the law, and the same problem in 2001 when a law was passed that said that all the illegally built buildings could be connected to the municipal infrastructure, led to the fact that there was a boom of illegal construction. Everyone could have joined, and no one had time to make plans. It's changed now. The situation is much better. We are still not fully satisfied, but I am sure that since we are helping both financially and professionally, all spatial plans will be adopted by the end of this year. Thank you. [[That's right! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68038	Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68039	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response, and I hope that's the case with you. Why did I mention these examples? Here I absolutely agree with you that just a protected belt and a protected coastal area is what should in any case be given priority when removing illegal objects. That's exactly why I cited this example because it's about objects that are in such areas, so if we're going to talk about Mr. Mia Brajkovic, then he built it after 2004. It shall mean after the entry into force of the Regulation. I've cited only a few of these examples. They can be listed yet, but all of this is in favor of the claim that they cannot be taken away from the impression that the law and the criteria for the destruction apply only to ordinary, small people and their houses are the first to be hit by a bagger and on the other hand various powerful men, tycoons or politically similar owners of illegal objects can sleep peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68040	Dear Representative Ivo Jarnjak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68041	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Health. Krapina-Zagorje County is the only county in Croatia that has not yet its own hospital. Now construction is under way and construction works are somewhere near the end. Since it is of great interest to this hospital because the current conditions of a hospital called a hospital, it is located, located and working in barracks, are extremely difficult for both patients and staff and extreme effort can carry out their tasks. So I'm interested in getting the equipment whether the tender is called and yes, and when you expect that function to be put in place, that hospital is in full function? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68042	Health Minister Neven Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, it is true that the general hospital in Zabok will absolutely be the backbone of the health system in that county. But before I answer your question, I'd like to, and I'm pretty sure that it's looking at us wide-ranging, actually, to show the public some things. It's one of those criminal investments or cowboy investments that the former coalition government actually went unprepared for. What exactly is this about? You, when you're preparing a project and you want to actually finish it and I hope that the project will be completed then you're actually preparing the investment part for the equipment. Unfortunately, neither in the case of the Rebro Clinical Hospital, which many call Rebrovac nor in the case of the General Hospital Zabok was adequately planned and I hope this will be a message to everyone and that means we will no longer allow these cowboy investments. Of course, that doesn't even mean we're gonna give it up. And a clinical hospital center, therefore Zagreb, Rebro this government will also build a general hospital Zabok. The General Hospital of Zabok should be completed by the end of this year with construction work depending on the quantity of equipment. As some of the equipment is distinguished, construction can be continued. We're currently in progress with three contests. They're contests for the kitchen. The competitions we started here, which is for computerized tomography, and there will be a competition for radiological equipment as well. The total value of the equipment that will enter that hospital will be about 60 million kuna, which is actually compared to the equipment given into other, practical institutions an extremely large amount. Here's a chance to look back on the problem that's being presented, and that's computerized tomography. I've made it clear several times, and according to what the profession claimed, that's that we want a multilayer CT at the General Hospital. Multi-layer CT will come, but it does not necessarily mean the most sophisticated “Hy tech” technology because for this moment neither the General Hospital Zabok meets the professional criteria. This means actually one quality, good, four-layer machine for computerized tomography that will fully meet all that actually the general hospital needs. Not just today, but in perspective. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68044	Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68045	I didn't hear what Mrs. Pusic said, but Zagorci can't wait for that hospital to be finished. ... To be finished and that the equipment that's there will meet all those needs and those expectations that both patients and professional staff have, so I'll ask that in that sense he arranges with hospital staff to really be the equipment that will meet the needs he has there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68046	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68047	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected members of the Croatian government. I wanted to ask my question to the president of the Croatian government, Mr Sanader. Of course he's not here, so we'll reroute the question to Mr. Polancec, the vice-president of the Croatian government. You and your government have announced that the development of the company "Sun-Sun-Hvar" has been resolved by an agreement with the "Orco Group" on the principles of public-private partnership. That's when you claimed there was no privatisation. Not to change the ownership structure but to ensure the development of "Sun-Hvar" with Croatian property. You have implemented all this and claimed the opposite of the Privatisation Act, hence the applicable Law and without the Law on Public-private Partnership which Croatia does not have in its legal system. But these days, Mr. Dragan Lazukic, the president of the Orko administration, says that instead of your contract, 50m euros in planned investment, the Orko Group will invest 150m euros, and when the Riva Hotel is opened, Mr. Lazukic says he is proud of their Hotel Riva. It is now clear, and you have called on this not to protect the interests of the workers of "Sun Hvar" and the citizens of Hvar. The question is, when did you privatize "Sun Hvar", where did you publish the privatisation tender and what price did you achieve in privatisation? Will you publish the Public-private Partnership and Privatisation Treaty of Sunny Hvar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68048	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68049	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. A public-private partnership on "Sun-Hvar" of course changes the ownership structure because it is a capitalisation by a private partner. As soon as you have such a procedure, it is quite certain and clear that the ownership structure cannot and will not remain the same as it was before. However, we have provided such a model of recapitalisation which, in part, changes the ownership structure to provide a very important tourist complex, a very important tourist company for the future, we have provided her with a strategic partner who is willing to invest, who is willing to develop this company, raise the level of quality of service and we are rightly proud of it. Of course, I can't comment on the statements of certain managers from that company. I didn't see all those statements after all. Everyone is responsible for their statements, but no one has the right to say today that some hotel is his. They are co-owners, we are co-owners with them. That doesn't mean they're the absolute owners of that hotel. The rights of workers and the interests of workers are they protected? Yes, of course they're protected and they're protected multiple times. They are protected primarily by allowing them to work and operate in the coverage of a defined, clear, strong economic entity guaranteeing investment and guaranteeing development. And we have protected them, among other things, and in a contract in which we clearly provide restrictions related to the reduction of the number of employees, or we do not allow the reduction of the number of employees to a certain period, and I can tell you now they will not be, but will happen exactly the opposite – there will be an increase in the number of employees needed in that society so that I do not see what the words that have a negative sound. I personally believe, I am convinced that we have done well and secured the future for both these employees and this company and, of course, the local and regional communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68050	Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68051	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, you have admitted that you have privatised against the applicable Privatisation Act and without the law on public private partnership. You've publicly admitted that. This is how you defined the existing legal situation in the privatisation of the Republic of Croatia, and I am not surprised I expected this response. However, I am convinced that the citizens of Hvar and Croatian citizens will be able to interpret your response since they have experience in privatising in the Republic of Croatia and experience with this government related to “TLM”, “Liburnia Riviera” hotels or “Brodo-Split”. I'd like a written reply and a public private partnership contract for insight.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68052	Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68053	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, esteemed ministers. I'd like to ask Mr. Eve Sanader the president of the Croatian government. According to the information I have you intensively on the ground, you're changing all the people who literally don't implement your personnel policy. For example, at the Rijeka Shipyard. ” May" 6 months lead the battle over changing the members of the administration and you finally managed to impose your staff on the president of the administration. What the president of the administration thinks about these shots is the act of resigning. The third year of your government's mandate is ongoing, and there is no financial consolidation in Croatia's Shkver, nor a shipbuilding solution as a branch as a whole, which you generously promised in the pre-election campaign. My question is, does such an unfavourable frame in “three. ” May" aims to set up management of people who, according to the model of Split's “Brodo-Splita”, will draw money from the river Škver, and direct it to companies and people close to your policy through various companies in Cyprus, Malta, Austria or elsewhere, and what Mr Jurjevic had previously talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68054	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68055	Mr. Representative, I'm really sorry that you're getting into such grades, that you condemn and take your right to make judgments, that you're making a statement. That's exactly what I'm up against. This is one phenomenon that needs to be eradicated from Croatian society because we no longer live in the oneness where the party decided everything. She'd say it was your fault, you did it. That's not true! We live in a democratic society where we need to prove and let judicial authorities do their job. The Croatian Parliament and you are a member of the highest legislative body in the Republic of Croatia, but that fact, the fact that this is the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia does not give you the right to put yourself above the judiciary. For the judiciary in the trio is the executive authority, the judicial authority, and the legislative power. And I really don't understand why you and your esteemed representative, Col. Jurjevic, are always putting yourself above everyone and you say that. We're not in the '80s or the '70s anymore. That's a long time behind us. Thank God and he won't come back. So you can't, Mr. Representative, no matter what I respect you personally, you can't stand it this way and that's the way it is. No, that will be said by the judicial authorities, and we will respect both you and us and the House of Representatives as a legislative body, i.e. the Croatian Parliament and Government. This is about Jurjevic, and what you said just before about the River Square is simply not true. The government does not exert any pressure or pressure on the board of directors or the board of directors. It's absolutely beyond any sense to accuse the government of that. That's one thing. And while you're already talking about personnel shifts, no shifts, no notes, that's what you should say, then you should take "The People's Newspaper," as Bebić from 2000 says, and see that you've changed everything alive, to the boards of children's kindergartens, kindergartens, not smuggling, not hospitals. You accused Hebrang of changing directors at the beginning of his term, of changing this. He's for perfectly justified reasons two or three, two directors. You jumped, and you changed in one day 40 directors of Croatian hospitals. And from the order of all members of the Homeland War, defense organizations. So it was a revolution, what did you call it then? ... Bartholomew Night, that's what you did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now you're with us, and where did you get your face? You're saying we're spending time. We, sir, are conducting a policy that those who are capable of managing, is when you mentioned Rijeka. Here is an example of the Rijeka Hospital, the director who is extremely capable, who has remained with our full support and is doing well from the time of your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68056	Representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68057	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I do not dare to put God in the role of judge. I'm just asking and it's my right as a representative in this House to ask and ask for an answer to the appearances that point to the Croatian society. I fully understand that this is an awkward question and in some ways I feel for you. However, the entire Croatian public knows that there are serious indications that although you knew about events in Split's Shkver you did nothing to prevent huge, let's say the kidnapping of state money. Therefore, I would not want the same to happen in the Rijeka Square, and that is why I am warning the Croatian public to do the same. It's about kindergartens. Children's kindergartens do not set up administrative councils, not by the government, but by setting up units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68058	Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68059	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Mr Calmeta. Here, the beginning of this tourist season of Trogir, Ciova, me, and many of you reminded of a really burning problem in that area, I would say, and that is the bridge, land-Ciovo. Most of you will also stop by because Trogir is a UNESCO town and can't really get around it. And indeed there is one traffic collapse in the summer seasons. We know that the four-year plan of the Croatian Roads provides for the construction of the bridge, we know that a local permit for building the bridge was rejected in April 2005. It was rejected for the reason it was not foreseen in the spatial plan of the City of Trogir and this is quite the right decision by the Resorient Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction. However, a spatial plan of the City of Trogir was now adopted in April 2006 and the bridge was planned. So there are no formal obstacles to the location permit anymore. The route is defined. Certain investigative activities have been carried out for several months. And I ask when can you expect a location permit, and of course after that also construction, and building bridges, or access roads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68060	Dear Mr. MP, it is a truly big project that includes building a bridge of about 800 meters and plus a few kilometers of access roads and on the one hand, on the land side and on the other side of the island. What you've said so far is absolutely correct. I can only confirm here that the preparations for building that bridge are carried out intensively. An environmental impact study is being developed. After that, it will be clearly obtained, and now it can be obtained, related to spatial-planning documentation and location permits. A tender for the implementation, design of the project and preparation for the building permit will be discussed. So after that, there will be a clear public tender for the performance of the works. It's hard for me to tell this class exactly in the month or when the works will begin alone, but surely, my guess is, they start somewhere at the end of the next, or in 2007. By then we'll, by then, take the time to... which I said, including making complete project documentation, which also takes some time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Anyway, the preparations are going as planned. And the construction of that bridge will begin as I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68061	Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68062	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Let's make it that dynamic. And it's gonna be okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68063	Representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68064	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question. In fact, the governments so far have been successful on their way to the European Union, and it is obvious that all political parties have a consensus. However, in the shadow of the European Union, unsettled issues remain with neighbours, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia, which we are increasingly talking about. And we know that the boundaries of war lose lives. In HSLS, we believe it's not the government's issue, it's the state's issue. And that's why it's not acceptable for us, of course the negotiations, the arrangements are, but this correspondence, the book, the picture on the picture, the letter on the letter, should not last until next year, because next year is an election year. So we don't really believe in very serious issues, not even borderline ones. So I ask the Prime Minister whether and when the representative of all political parties, including the public, will be familiar with the reply to the Slovenian Government, the contents of the Blue Paper, because we know that the incidents at sea are possible and it seems quite common to me. So we expect an answer when, because it is indeed a question of all political parties, not one government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68065	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68066	Madam Vice President, you're right. And I support absolutely your position that the issue of relations with Slovenia and open issues that we have, borderline, is not a question of one government, but is a matter of the whole of Croatia and the possibility of consensus of all political parties. That's why my answer when an expert team who will lead members of the Academy, HAZU, is from academics Rudolph further, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a contractual relationship with the Academy on this very issue, that the best experts and Croatian experts make our arguments in response to these Slovenians published in the White Book, we will call it the "Blue Book", but that is not a joke to ourselves. The purpose is to give answers to Slovenian questions, but to leave key arguments for the international judicial body, a judicial institution that must be reached. Unfortunately, it cannot be reached by international practice only through the will of one side, the other side should be agreed whether it will be next year, whether it will be sooner or later, I must say that after these 15 years of negotiations between Croatia and different governments with Slovenian governments, I do not see too much reason for optimism for Slovenia to accept our official invitation to come out, so who has better arguments let that win. In any case, we in Croatia don't think we should be afraid, we have very strong arguments, very strong arguments when it comes to border open issues with Slovenia, and we will publish the arguments, not until the end in this "Blue Book" before anyone sees it, we will invite all parliamentary parties to one conversation, deliver it to you to look, eventually fix, give some suggestions, but I repeat again they won't be political on it will work not the Government, on it will work one team of experts from the Egid Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. So, the best we have in Croatia on this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68067	Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68068	Thank you very much. It is certainly good that the experts are back again because the disbanding of the expert commission was a major and difficult failure that we have already warned about, but it would certainly be good if the issue of the bar borders with Slovenia began to be resolved, that another new government would not be waiting again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68069	Dear Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68070	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the Croatian Government. I will refer my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. It is almost logically related to the question before which it has been asked is the longest line actually which is still controversial because all Croatian policies have not successfully answered that question. Namely, it's a protected eco-fishing belt. I personally, and all the MPs who have been in the previous assembly know clearly the views of your Mr. President on this problem. How persistent and actually modern politician who knows how to realise his views is and I can't believe that you haven't been able to solve this problem so far. I don't have to say everything you've said about this problem because there's an unequivocal profession, absolutely clear, it's simply the right of every country and every country has the right to make that decision. I don't know what the reasons why the largest economic resource is 25 thousand square kilometers of the Croatian Adriatic are are we not using in the way that we could. I don't know why such a decision is stalled indefinitely and we are concerned about the preservation of the biological and all other resources of the Croatian Adriatic, but also the protection of the interests of Croatian fishermen why can't such a decision be made? In the HSS, we stubbornly insist on making such a decision and ask that with our perseverance, the pride you have shown so far and that you insist on this problem to the end and tell us clearly what the reasons for the company cannot be made, and we insist that it be made by 15 September this year at the latest because we think that this is at all Croatian interest and all Croatian as you said all Croatian consent yesterday about all the problems of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68071	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68072	Mr. Representative, first of all, I am glad that you have the Croatian national interest in your heart, so you are side-by-side with us and we welcome it. Secondly, I did not make the decision, the decision was made by the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, and it has been made very well-founded and the Croatian Parliament will also change that decision when the time comes. First of all, it should be said that some who today stand out in public unfortunately try to use demagogue instruments and methods. It is not true that this is to the detriment of Croatian fishermen. It is to the detriment of Croatian fishermen that no one, and we are trying to change this situation, is not from all governments from socialism to the Croatian independence of all governments who have tried to solve the key problem of Croatian fishermen, which is the lack of a modern and well-equipped fleet, it is a key problem and let us not speak, because when the excluded Member States are temporarily European Union and ZERP, meaning ZERP is valid for all others, it is not valid for members of the European Union until we have completed the negotiations on the fisheries agreement and in that time no one defends Croatian fishermen to hunt in this declared area. Therefore, it is not true that, please, it is not true that the damage is a Croatian fisherman. The damage to Croatian fishermen is not that we have excluded the countries of the European Union, the damage of Croatian fishermen, that is, the problems of Croatian fishermen are that they do not have the appropriate fleets and we will work on it, because of Minister Kalmeta, for Cobankovic's sake, for the sake of the government and we will try to get as much funding out of the European Union funds as possible because we temporarily exempt the member states of the European Union. So let's not go public, let's not appeal to you, we'll come out also with very firm arguments where we'll warn that you who were in the last government if you insist on doing nothing for the fishing fleet because that's the key to how he'll hunt and that we declare it and let no one else, and whoever comes to the Croatian sea will have to pay for it. Otherwise, illegal and ours are hunting him and taking away the ships and carts, so how will Croatian fishermen take advantage of that? This is a key issue, and that is what we must insist on, and when it comes to the ZERP, so it applies to all countries except the members of the European Union until we have completed the fisheries agreement. Why? So because we have entered this relationship, we want to become a full member and we want to address the issue of fisheries on one basis on which we will be a member of the European Union tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68073	Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68074	Now, of course, I can't be completely satisfied. I am pleased with the views you show, but with the application of these views I cannot be satisfied, simply by the speculation of those who are dealing with it say that a million euros a day are being lost due to... And I'm sorry, such calculations exist with this money would be very much renewed by the Croatian fleet, but of course I can trust your good wishes and intentions here to arrange this part in the best possible way, but since this is not happening we will unfortunately have to apply that formula that you suggested in your speech to use the right of citizens in their voice and organise a petition to call a referendum and this problem will be solved in such a way if there is no other way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68075	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68076	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Vice President, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister! The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a judicial reform strategy at a session held on 20 September 2005. Under this strategy, a particular chapter is the development of alternative ways of dispute resolution, which provides for the adoption of a project of settlement in courts and the basis for the launch of a pilot of a nine-judgment project in the period from 2006 to 2008 with the aim of establishing an alternative dispute settlement in the Republic of Croatia and with the ultimate aim of discharging courts and judges and reducing the duration of the court proceedings. I refer my question to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Lovrin. As well as the first results of the development of the alternative dispute settlement system in courts as part of the judicial reform strategy, they are ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68077	Justice Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68078	Thank you very much. Mr. President! Mr. Representative, thank you very much for this question because my answer to this question will actually contribute to the promotion of this important issue. In fact, the development of alternative ways of resolving disputes is of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia because of its influence on the judicial system and also to all economic and social development. That is why the strategy for developing alternative ways of resolving disputes has also been given its special place as a special contribution to the justice reform strategy in the Republic of Croatia. Why do we think that the development of alternative ways of resolving disputes is extremely important? In addition to its contribution to discharging courts, it is particularly important for the parties because it allows them to resolve disputes faster, more efficient resolution, cheaper resolution and what is particularly important leaves parties in a tolerated environment after the end and settlement of disputes, which is mostly important in the economic mile and in disputes before trade courts. Despite the legal framework laid down by the Law on arbitration and the Law on Peace, and the provisions of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which points to mandatory calming in the case of an action against the Republic of Croatia, it has been observed that the parties and the courts do not reach enough for the institution of rest. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice has taken a number of promotional actions by printing posters, promotions and affirmation of this way of resolving disputes. In addition, a contract was signed with the Association of Employers, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce on 30 May this year, an agreement on joint participation in the PHARE programme in 2005 to strengthen settlement as an alternative way of resolving disputes. In addition, preparations are under way to amend the Law on a litigation procedure which will strengthen the possibility of referencing the case to a settlement procedure and will, accordingly, be assessed by the judge as possible to refer the contractual settlement of disputes to a person in court who will be particularly in charge of the peaceful settlement of disputes as a judge of the peacemaker. It is particularly important to educate judges through the Ministry of Justice, through the Judicial Academy. So far, 200 judges and fewer state lawyers have been educated to deal with the peace. From the concrete results at the Commercial Court in Zagreb in March 2006, the pilot of a standstill project was launched, which showed exceptional results in the short term and 171 proposals for peace were received by 30 May of this year. Of which, the hearing agreed to a 49-year standstill procedure and agreed to a standstill in 24 cases after the court called. A total of twenty cases were completed until May 2006, of which 6 were held at the first meeting, 6 on the second and seven cases did not reach a settlement. By the end of this year, it is planned to start with a settlement project on nine municipal courts throughout the Republic of Croatia, and just these days in Slavonski Brod it begins to rest at the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod. The following year, it is planned to bring peace to all first-degree courts throughout the Republic of Croatia. Here, therefore, I call on the courts and the parties and the Ministry of Justice to continue to work on promoting and energising the process of settlement before the courts precisely because of the well-being of citizens in order to get a faster, more efficient and cheaper way of resolving disputes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68079	Representative Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68080	Thank you very much. Well, according to your answer, in any case, calming is certainly one of the ways in which we can resolve the procedures that have a great future in Croatia, but I would like to point out, however, about all of this agreement with your answer, one fact that applies and is particularly close to my heart, and it is about settling in marital disputes. I think that, in line with the experiences of European countries and the recommendations of the Council of Europe on family mediation Resolution 98, it is also necessary to consider how to develop as soon as possible a system of calming in courts for family disputes, especially for problems arising from divorce, child-distribution, child-to-child contact with a child who has not been assigned a child, property-legislative relations. Because if we can get this out of court as soon as we can, I'm convinced that it would be less rare for participants or witnesses of tragic events like we've witnessed in the last few days. So, with thanks for this answer, I would especially like to appeal to you as Minister to encourage as high-quality training of judges as possible to resolve these disputes in matrimonial litigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68081	Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68082	A question for Mr. Kirin's Home Secretary. The illegal trade is one of the biggest security problems and challenges of the modern world. Its financial value at global and global level is estimated at around 630 billion euros annually. Given the growing linkage and co-operation of organised international crime and illegal trade in international terrorism, it is understandable that these problems give special attention to the wider international community in particular to NATO, the European Union and the UN. International cooperation, strengthening inter-resorial i.e. our internal coordination as well as the development of individual capabilities at the level of each individual country is a form of shared responsibility towards common security. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of its responsibilities, given the fact that organised international crime also uses Croatian territory for illegal trafficking and proliferation of drugs, weapons and people both on land and at sea. Our well-organised and effective cooperation with both the European Union and NATO is one of the ways in which the Republic of Croatia has accelerated its approach to Euro-Atlantic integration. It is certainly not too much to stress in all of this that global security cannot be achieved today without full international cooperation but also well-designed international scientific technical cooperation. I would say inclusion of Croatian mind and science, knowledge-based security and knowledge in the security function can be a new Croatian road and a contribution to NATO and the European Union and the fight against illegal trade at sea in particular. Dear Ministers, in view of everything previously said, can you say what the Ministry of the Interior is doing, and particularly the maritime police of the MUP, in order to improve the fight against illegal trade at sea through even more intensive international co-operation, and in particular through European Union programmes and projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68083	Your Honor... Kirin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68084	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I am glad that such a question has been raised because usually when it comes to the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, especially at the protection of state borders, very little is said in public. And this is one of the most expensive projects to welcome the Croatian government, which is already waiting for Croatia to join the European Union. In order to illustrate the complexity of the answer to the question, it is necessary to provide some information for this House. The length of the state border at sea is 950km. Length of Croatian coast 5835 kilometers. In total, we have 1185 islands, the total area is 31 thousand 757 square kilometers, or 56 thousand 965 square kilometers, with an area of protected ecological and fishing belt. In addition to these facts about the divorce of our coast, it is also that every day we have more and more reported ships and sailboats in our sea. That more and more foreign and domestic boatmen are coming to our ports not only because of natural beauty, because there are natural beauty in other parts of the world, but one of the main reasons is their safety. Both them and their property especially when they're staying in the tourist season. We are aware that this work could not be done, today I am proud to say one thing as Minister of the Interior that today, by working with the Ministry of Defence that we have, with the Ministry of Transport, the sea, tourism and development in cooperation with port captains, we have one joint cooperation that allows us to use the means of common material and technical means to exercise complete control and control of our maritime border. What we support is that the Adriatic Sea is also part of Croatia's maritime police, in cooperation with other security factors, one of the more secure insurrections and that is why we received commendation from... "screening" when they were working with the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The inter-agency system we have signed, cooperation between customs means the Ministry of Finance, the State Inspectorate, the Ministry of Interior in this part of the surveillance of illegal trade, which has been increasingly discussed, and it has been intense especially when it comes to the passage of weapons means across the Croatian port to third countries, we can say that they are Croatian, that the Croatian police or the Ministry of Interior have gone into two, into two levels of resolution precisely maritime borders. The first is the supervision of the Croatian coast, or Croatian ports. Because together with the institutions, we control all the traffic and cargo that is transported through them. And the second level is surveillance means with fast mobile transport vessels together in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence to monitor the internal and external equator. According to this, the Coast Guard Act is also in preparation. In addition, a Coast Guard will be formed by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, which will put an end to and prepare everything necessary to meet the "Schengen Aqui". I would just like to quote one of these words, which was from "five screenings" that the EU experts are convinced that this concept of surveillance with interagency cooperation is in line with "schengen aqui" and its detailed analysis can serve as an example for new member states but even for countries that satisfy "schengen aqui". We are aware of our position in this part of Europe. And we always point out that surely what the Croatian State is doing as far as safety at sea is concerned is doing for one reason. First he works for his citizens. We want because our tourist season depends on the security not only of our citizens but also of foreign guests who come to our country. This is why the Croatian State and the Croatian Government invest in the purchase of new equipment. But in order to improve its capacity, the Ministry of the Interior is through early EU projects, one of them set out to purchase new vessels in 2004. Also, "the sign" means where to track the sea both with vessels and with, and to get new aircraft to better cover the border. What is very important to say in this respect is that, in terms of strengthening our ability and protecting our borders, the EU borders can also be highlighted and the initiative to achieve...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68085	Please conclude, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68086	... full membership in European... under the European Border Safety Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is integrated into all systems prescribed by both the European Commission and others, other world organisations and thus contribute to the protection of borders and the protection of our citizens and our dear guests who come during the tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68087	Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68088	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your complete and interesting answer. It should certainly be pointed out that, not without reason, the European Commission insists on strengthening the capacity of so-called "the European Commission". integrated control of the blue border. That's it. the border on the Adriatic. Certainly, Bulgaria and Romania's experience in accession negotiations with the European Union warns that the last, last question that was to be addressed was just a matter of sea border surveillance because it is not just a technical issue, it is not just a political issue. This is an extremely expensive financial issue because it is a very complex and demanding technical equipment. Certainly, it is equally important for NATO to pay attention to this issue alongside the European Union, and it is good to hear everything that seems at the government level especially at the level of coordination that takes care of safety at sea and prevents illegal trade as the greatest modern security problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68089	Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68090	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is for the Minister of Health, Mr. Ljubičić. In fact, the Health Law states that every citizen has the right to health care and to be able to achieve the highest possible level of health. For example, a pharmacy or a pharmacy is not the case. An example of pharmacy or pharmacy in my municipality, it is the municipality of Bednja, and such a municipality has an extremely large number throughout the country. The municipality of 4700 residents is mostly nursing and has organised medical services through two medical teams. So, all day long, and the pharmacy and two district infirmarys, and the pharmacy only works eight hours. It works exclusively because the HZO regulation stipulates that in a pharmacy in 40 hours a master’s degree of pharmacies, an engineer of pharmacies and a technician can work in 40 hours. According to some new proposal, which now agrees, there should be another magistrate and half of the technicians, and normally that another shift could be realised should be hired by another MA who is not available at the Bureau. It's simple, and on the other hand, we've been training technicians for four years. The technicians pass a professional exam, but they have no right to issue prescription drugs. Unlike practices in countries, orderly countries where technicians can issue prescription drugs. According to statistics in our community, that's 73% of traffic. The year is produced, conditionedly produced by 200 technicians, and 280 of them are on the bureau. My question is: Whether the ministry will allow changes to the law to be issued by technicians with a professional examination, and on this example, by the municipality of Bednja where one shift would create the possibility of a master’s degree of pharmacies, and in the second shift a technician is unable to open or introduce competition that is interested in the municipality and that activity because of the prescribed network of pharmacies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68091	Minister of Health Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, the answer is very short. It's not a matter of any acts, so Mr. Representative, which should be passed by HZZO, but rather a matter of the law that your government passed in 2003, and that's the main problem because you left the pharmacy exclusively in one private initiative, you have passed a practical regulation that makes it impossible not only in areas of special state interest but also in mountainous areas and in islands, the pharmacy network will be destroyed. Like I said, and here's my doctors like to call it post-coalization syndrome. The medicine came in November 2003. Every disease is being treated, and so is this one. We will soon come out with a new legal proposal and these things properly solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68093	Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68094	Thank you very much for your answer. Since I expected about such an answer, I remind the minister that the regulation of law enforcement at HZZO currently brought your HZZO to an end last year. Therefore, the regulation, by the end of last year, which is valid for both this year and every year, changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68095	And respected representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68096	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. I will ask Mr. Neven Ljubičić about primary health care. I think a better organisation of primary health care could save a lot of money in hospital treatment if they gave primary healthcare a lot more time in terms of patient care. Today's primary health care is organized in a two-way way. We all know that at home we can ask when our doctor works, whether it's morning or afternoon and in my own free bills, our general practice doctor or dentist works 5, 6 hours a day at the most. He doesn't have a chance to work any longer because he has to leave his office and leave the second shift. And my question is whether the Ministry is considering building a system that would eventually develop to have one doctor, or one team in one office. So primary health care doctors would have time to deal with the patient, have time to process it better, and I think hospitals would get rid of the pressures they have today. Today our doctors in general practice are forced to write instructions because they do not have time to devote themselves to the patient in the time at which they should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68097	Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68098	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's before I answer this question, and it's extremely complex because it needs to be viewed from a series of actually sides. Maybe it's actually convenient to start by saying which situation we found in primary health care in the first place. We found a drop in pediatric teams by more than 20% between 2000 and 2003. We found a catastrophic condition in gynaecological hospitals where the number of preventive checks in pregnant women, ultrasound checks were less than 15%, where we found the condition that, for example, in general family medicine was a drastic decline, or there were no preventive checks at all, and the number of home visits decreased significantly because there was no stimulation. Of course, in an analysis of why all this happened, we saw that one of the basic things was absolutely certain and a great role played both space and equipment. We started to see what really happened to the equipment. Then we came up with one piece of knowledge, and that's again the indiscretion of that 2003 law, which is that equipment is not decided by the waist. In fact, equipment is usually decided by the administration. We even had a case to say that the presidents of individual boards were smokers and they decided where any quantum equipment would go. It is inadmissible and absolutely in this context we have actually changed it and our proposal legally, and I expect that he will be here supported just going with that those who work within the system itself and manage finances. As far as space is concerned, an absolute idea of a tenant, one ambulance stands. There is also the support of the largest number of tenants themselves, of course within a specific framework which will be resolved by the Rental Regulation, and I hope that this is after the Croatian Parliament accepts this package of laws we are going with the amendments to that Regulation, including again chambers, social partners, patients, because that is the only way we come up with the most qualitative solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68099	Representative Mario Zubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68100	I'd just like to say that in Europe, general practice offices work from 8 to 12 and then work from 4 to 6 or 5 to 7, and in that noon break they go on house visits. So the doctor's been in his office all day. I think if such a system in primary health care came to life with us that the effect would be much, much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec is still to be delivered in written response, i.e. the answer to the parliamentary question in writing. Current morning is over. We continue the session at 15.00 hours with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Adult Education. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68109	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the agenda. The first is the turn point – 1. Proposal for a Law on adult education, first reading of P.Z. No. 504 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. The Minister of Science, Education and Sports Mr Dragan Primorac will explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68110	... The law that we believe will change from the foundation what one area was, I would call it a gray zone in education, which included in fact all those adults who did not have the opportunity to pass through formal education and who were in an air-breathing space, and those in the Republic of Croatia are very much, let's just remember that close to 40% of those who have either an eight-year-old school or an eight-year-old school completed. [[Specially enabled.]] On the other hand, if you look at about 40 percent of those with finished high school, then you see that difference between 7 or 11% of what we used to call higher school and high, actually what leads the Republic of Croatia today. It is therefore very important to underline that in the 21st century, the century which Europe declared as a century of knowledge, Croatia is late to present a bill that is absolutely complementary to all laws that exist within the European Union. I would also like to thank the members of the Committee who participated, but our international experts, especially the group that is related to Mrs Doris Pack, Mr... Matkovic and all present. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Professor is upstairs looking at us or listening to us. It is actually a law that is complemented by the laws of the European Union, primarily the closest to the German Law on adult education. What are the key components to which this Law should be answered? He needs to respond to labour market needs, he must have and give a key role in education in the development of a democratic society, but he must meet all those who have their own needs, desires and who want to take a new step towards education. The generally accepted concept of lifelong learning in its composition has, it is very important to say, prominent and adult education because it is not necessary to go to school all your life, but to educate your whole life it is one of the trends that the most developed countries are carrying today. The question arises on which key documents the law was built next to a series of documents used in... The European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's important to say that he... on the declaration of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts on Knowledge, 55 recommendations of the Competitiveness Council, to increase the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia, the development plan for education and education in 2005-2010, the strategy for the development and education of adults, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in November 2004, together with an action plan on how to implement this strategy which established and adopted this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course I have to point out that many, most of me would say Western European states, I welcome Mr. Professor and the entire team of our experts from abroad who participated, was actually brought in the second half of the last century and Croatia was late and Croatia tried to compensate it with other measures that were as satisfactory as they were. What I think is important to say is that this law will be based on the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia, regarding primary, secondary education, but also on higher education, but also on the particular point that it wants to cover the population somewhere around 6% of those who never complete regular primary education or who we lose or by our estimates about 10% of the population who never finish high school and that number of young people from high school who will never have a high school diploma, and that is one big truth that we have to talk about. Of course, in the direction of Croatia becoming a knowledge society, we have to include this huge population, 40% of Croatia that has finished high school and almost 40% of Croatia that has completed or unfinished eighth-year school, we are talking about 80% of Croatia, and if you ask what kind of structure of employees of these around 47% who have finished high school look at the paradoxical data. About 64 of them are unemployed, 64 percent which means you have a classic, which we call in circulatory medicine... You can't get out of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the only way to make something concrete is for these people to be stimulated through the measures that I'm going to make certain schooling so that they can become competitors on the labour market, and you know that in Croatia we only recently abolished more than a hundred interests that have become integral. What is proposed by this law? This Law has a fundamental setting to create all the preconditions that approximately 2.1% of people in Croatia who are involved in lifelong education, adult education rises to close to 10% which is the trend of the European Union countries, and this concerns the working-age population of between 24 and 65 years and that is the point. On the other hand, this Law proposes all those solutions that will integrate the entire system of education, practically from preschool age, so what we say in education to doctoral studies in a way that it is intended for everyone, but that there is a unique legal, or educational system that will guarantee everyone their basic right, it is the right to education. Of course, we also have to deal with new dimensions about this, and this is the dimension of our proposal that probably next year, in fact, since the ninth month, compulsory education has been going on and on high school education. It is an extremely important component that we must take care of because it is also based on this law. This law proposes and provides solutions on the involvement of those who need to conduct adult education through targeted institutions and institutions including open-air schools, primary and secondary schools. It is the concept of open schools that we speak very clearly of because even at the moment we achieve one-way work with this dynamic that we go to, you will have schools that, if they are not used in the afternoon, there is actually no purpose of these schools. It is extremely important to say that high schools and oenological institutions and a number of other institutions that exist in the Republic of Croatia are included in the whole story, but we will value their work. In Croatia today, there are many institutions dealing with education but we don't know about their quality of work as we didn't know until recently about the quality of high school, primary school institutions until we started external evaluation. It is an extremely important step for Croatian education. First measurable and significant because otherwise we turn out to praise our school and institution without any objective criteria. However, this law foresees and gives an equal role to those quality, public and private institutions, and that is a step. We've been afraid of private institutions for years. If a private institution shows excellence and still costs the state a minimum and gives the maximum results of education then modern education systems do not see any problem. The law introduces the Council for adult education as a central national body in which representatives and social partners and educational partners will be, because it is extremely important to say that the process of education for the elderly is currently attached to a number of ministries, social partners, different chambers and here is the issue of shared responsibilities. No ministry can bear the responsibility of the whole process, nor does it know the problem of the entire portfolio. In the law you will see a proposal for the establishment of a central institution of the Agency for the Education of Adults which will systematically, purposely, thoroughly know the situation regarding adult education in the Republic of Croatia, monitor, professionally monitor and encourage the development of the entire adult education system. What's the problem so far? That's one of the common questions. Well, no matter what the mega ministry was like, like mine or some other institutions, no one actually had a system in one place that could know what was going on and where the system was going. And that's why the agency plays an extremely important role. In addition, this law proposes a very clear establishment of standardisation of programmes, evaluation of institutions, programmes and licensing of experts implementing programmes. You have often seen from my presentations and presentations of colleagues who are related to the ministry often used the word evaluation, evaluation, licensing. It's the foundation of every education system. Therefore, we will give special importance to the continuation of work and support of the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. One of the issues that we had in the debates and that commission actually had a lot to say about free thinking, thinking about what exists now in the European Union or thinking about where Croatia should go. But the key moment is that according to current regulations, citizens pay for their own education and only those few who are fortunate have the opportunity to have their employers or someone else pay for education, and they want it. And what position are you in? You are in a position where Croatia, which has not recognised all these years the value of education and where people have not invested in education, and where it may have been a priority to buy a more expensive car, were found in 35 or 45 years, wanted to go further but had no money to pay for education because it depended solely on them. This law provides the possibility or principle of three-thirds of the state, local, regional regional self-government and employers and citizens themselves. That model turned out to be the best for a few reasons. The first reason is that making it easier I would say market value and costing when continuing schooling. It's one and a fundamental setting. Another which is not less important is that when you participate in the payment and conduct of one process you have a responsibility to it and it has proved to be a very good model or if the employer finances or the citizen wants the process to be completed. And that's the big truth. At the level of the state, funds are provided as you yourself know about basic adult education, which is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, given the right to free education. I would also like to highlight here an important project already implemented by the Ministry, which is a project for Croatian literacy road to the desired future in 2003-2012 in which the state budget provides funds for basic adult education and continuing training for simpler professions. During several seminars or activities we had I witnessed very unpleasantly I would say surprising situations, which is that people over 40 or 45 years of age come with umbrellas, wrapped in wipes that someone would not see them go to school because it was a shame until recently in Croatia to say that someone at the age of 40, 45 goes to school. This law not only gives the right, it legalises all possibilities and mass mobilizes all those activities that will ensure what yesterday was a shame to become true in Croatia and I would say the easy way. The secondary education of adults is extremely important because in the entire concept of the development of secondary education that you know yourself goes in two directions, it is professional and high school education will ensure that those who have completed an 8-year-old school can go and get the first profession. Extremely important information, because today you know that this first profession is not only bread, but that first profession can definitely, with knowledge of knowledge, open up other opportunities that this person would never have had if it had never completed its first occupation. What this law provides is also specific programmes which are of national interest. The Croatian state will move very quickly towards other countries, which is that in the next five, ten years it will lead the development policy that personnel need. You've heard of the so-called. model turn to the right or left regarding technical, socio-humanist or some other occupations. If the state believes that it needs technical interests over the next five years, then the state will channel funds and we can call it a national interest programme and, of course, it will be proposed by the Council for Adult Education. The local self-government unit plays an extremely important role because it provides funds, material costs, investments in institutions where they are actually founders. And a series of these documents come from a law that already exists. It is the Law on Institutions, but I must point out that in practice he is not respected because of a number of unspoken I would say problems concerning adult education. Also local self-government can go with programs that are significant to it, and this whole form of funding at this point we can call that in this spirit it was created in a way... A triangle that actually guarantees every subject that it's equally important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This pro-European law because it was literally done as a model of existing laws that showed one great experience and again thanks to all those who participated in it has actually made a few things possible for a short time. Increase adult participation in adult education. He has ensured an improvement in the education structure. He created preconditions for increasing investment in education because, as you yourself know, investment in education, regardless of systemic growth, will never experience its maximum in view of individual resolutions, but they do not know each other for each other to work. What I believe is also so that this law will be much more sensitive, and this is also for an analysis and for a confirmation of the harmonisation of education towards the labour market. For your reference is currently being made in Europe, it is developing a new European qualification framework of professions that will, on similar principles, produce or be something earlier national, so it will join itself in a unique and Croatian national qualification framework. An extremely important document that will guarantee individual professions by individual professions can definitely not be set up if you do not open the possibility of education to adults, 40% of the Croatian population who will never get another chance to finish what they missed during their previous education. The effects of the law, the question arises how quickly will they be visible? Except we're gonna start right now, when I tell you about the agency and all the subjects, statistical monitoring and real insight. Simply for the first year, we will also have insight into the quality of adult education, but in this way we will ensure that certain programmes or institutions that do not meet the conditions are put out and that adults do not conduct adult education. As was the case with some other institutions at higher education levels. The agency will be a place to coordinate the activities of all ministries. I have to point out again that they provide funding for adult education, but I'm going to level the criteria, make more control over the use of public funds, but they're going to see that key sentence used abroad, which is the outcome of education. The result of measurable education. You know about the concept that's being implemented where the state invests money, for example, at the university. And the state's only interested in one thing that's the outcome and effectiveness of this investment money? In Croatia, it has not been the case for years, nor has anyone dealt with it. And I have to point out here in the end that this law is open to debate. This law has installed numerous, critical thinking. This law has all the elements of evaluation, the evaluation of a very clear measurement of the effectiveness of law enforcement, but also this law has what is most important at this time in terms of education expressed social component because unfortunately a huge number of these people I mention, and indirectly or directly with an unfinished eight-year school or completed about 40% and with a high school above 46%, we talk about over 80% of the Croatian population of which at least half of our results are socially threatened to continue further education. Therefore, Mr. President, we, commission, fellow foreign experts and all who worked on it with a pure heart and with full enthusiasm, propose this law and we believe that it is actually the last joint in all changes in education from primary school to doctoral studies to cover this population that is simply not covered by the existing system of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68111	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68112	Dear Ministers, that's only three allegations now. At first it is not true, this is your quote a little out of the discussion of this debate to go well in the project of building one-way schools. It could be in that part of your promotion of the project. However, the key thing to these regulations that would allow your Ministry of Architectural Projects to be issued is that you have not changed. In answer to my question, you have just answered that, for example, the school in the district above cannot get permission and consent to build in one shift because you have not changed the rule. Therefore, around one-way schools, only your promotions and speakings have not changed a single rule in the Ministry so that the lege of artis could be done. Second. It is not true that the education of workers will be paid. This law even gives rise to the fact that the agreement between the employer and the worker is left to pay for his time in education. And third, it's not true that free elementary schooling for adults is for those up to 15 years old. It is for us as advocates that adults with unfinished primary school and as the biggest obstacle along with all psychological moments cite the fact that they have to pay each of these educational periods or school years in their primary school education. For example, children from the Turopolje Penitentiary Office specifically pointed out this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68113	Thank you. The committees. The Legislative Committee? Committee on Education, Science and Culture, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68114	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The Education, Science and Culture Committee of Croatia discussed the Law on Adult Education, P.Z. at its 24th session on June 2nd. swarm 504. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. Statistics show an unsatisfactory qualification structure of the Croatian population. Both absolutely and in relation to developed European countries. However, the state of permanent employment is changing in our time into a state of permanent employability, which is the prerequisite for building a system of lifelong learning and adult education. The proposed law should bring us closer to the more developed in this regard, since it does, regardless of the details that can be clearly discussed for the first time in us, prescribes the construction of a single adult education system. Specific institutions established exclusively for the purpose of adult education are only part of the system. It includes so far known and new forms of adult education across the range from primary school levels to high school levels. The new updated adult education system also brings systematic forms of funding for the activities of programmes and institutions. This is indicated by the needy, since so far, all the burden so I would say in this area was left to the user or to the situation on the market. The proposed law sets adult education in accordance with European experience when it comes to the place of state budget and the budget of self-government territorial units in the same level as other forms of education. So adult education is finally included in the system and is no longer a matter of individual individual or similar initiatives. The participants in the discussion shall accept those plantings and the principles on which the draft law rests. They shall repeat these questions, make proposals for the best possible normisation of the proposed system in conjunction with Articles two, ten and 28 and in relation to Article 26(3). The proposal for a law, as well as some other solutions, which have already been stated by the proposer's representative at the committee's session, will therefore be reviewed in the final draft of the law and to the extent that the proposed proposals are useful. The following conclusion was reached by the committee after the debate. The Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on adult education. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68115	Thank you. Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, rapporteur of the Committee, Vice-President of the Honorable Representative Kruno Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68116	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament at the 46th session held on 7 June 2006 discussed the proposal for a Law on the Education of Adults, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 25 May 2006. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this act as an interested working body. In the opening statement of the proposing representatives, it was pointed out that this bill establishes a system of adult education based on existing good practice and institutions whose long-term activities in adult education are recognised from local, regional, national to international level. In accordance with Article 3(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the opinion under which the words ‘three’ in Article 3(3) should be deleted by adults, given that only adults participate in a higher education system and participate in only adults. The opinion under which Article 10 of the Law should be complemented in such a way as to enable Andragogical employees to work in adult education institutions and on the basis of other forms. For example, the basis of the Labour Treaty is not just by establishing a working relationship. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the adoption of the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a Law on adult education, P.Z., is hereby adopted. No. 504. Opinions, objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68117	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality. Vice-President, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament at the 37th session held on 1 June 2006 discussed the proposal for a law on adult education submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 25 May 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the opening presentation, the proposing representative introduced the Committee to the data on the educational structure of the population. In the Republic of Croatia there is a high percentage of people with unfinished, partially completed or completed primary school only. In European Union countries, 10% of adults are included in some of the adult education models, while in the Republic of Croatia the number is only 2.1%. It is alarming that in the Republic of Croatia about 65% of employees have completed only high school. The concept of lifelong learning applies in all European Union countries, as it is only possible to maintain labour competitiveness in any interest in market economy conditions. The need for education and lasting learning in order to acquire new competences necessary for employment today is the most present among unemployed persons over 45 years of life who make up the most numerous and most difficult employment category among the total unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to women. The inconsistency of existing and sought-out knowledge and skills leads not only to the poor mobility of workers but also to the competitiveness of unemployed workers. In terms of globalisation and rapid changes in technology and continuous learning, the need for all employees and unemployed persons is needed in terms of improving and improving their skills and skills, and in order to raise their own competitiveness in the labour market. The debate pointed to a large proportion of women in the categories of the weakest educated. These figures are well above 50% and range from 65% to 85%, and the same situation is among the unemployed where the share of women is 60%. The descriptive project carried out by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in 2003 did not significantly motivate the category of illiterate to be involved in the descriptive project, i.e. the completion of the primary school. And out of that small number, 75% of the students are men. In this connection, it has been pointed out that the competent ministry should make greater efforts to implement this project, and according to data provided only by all the county administration offices are not included in the project. The adoption of this law should introduce clear rules for adult education institutions. Today, it is not uncommon for students of courses to learn outdated knowledge and skills that employers do not need, and they pay for such courses themselves. The debate was assessed by the questionable solutions of Articles 19 and 20 of the Law proposal. Namely, the proposed 3-day educational leave solution that can only be reached in agreement with the employer, and even without salary compensation, is in collapsing with certain rules governing working relations. For example, the Law on civil servants in Articles 92 and 94 provides for the permanent training and participation of civil servants, as well as the financing and education of state budget funds. However, that these provisions are disregarded and amounts to the positions of the state budget on which funds are provided for professional training of employees, for example intellectual and personal services. In addition to the fact that the amounts for intellectual services by all users of the state budget are extremely higher than the amounts for the professional training of employees in most cases and these small amounts are not implemented. The issue of financing adult education is not resolved by this proposal. There's no telling who's gonna be involved with what kind of resources, what ratio. And he remains afraid that everything will come back on the back of the students themselves. The debate also pointed out that it is necessary to bring this bill into line with the Law on Gender Equality in a way that explicitly prescribes the availability of education and persons of a different sexual orientation. After the discussion, members of the board unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions. The proposal for a Law on Adult Education, Proposal for Law No 504, first reading, is hereby adopted. And under two, the opinion of the objection and the proposals will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68119	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the SDP representative club, the respected representative Jelena Pavićiæ Vukičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68120	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I will try to say at the beginning of my presentation why we consider this subject of adult education in the SDP club extremely important and why we will also support this bill in the first reading. The reason for this is in all of us a very well-known people's saying, "Give some bread into your hands.". Even today, parents often tell their children, and teachers and students when completing regular schooling say that they have given them bread in their hands and, of course, we all mean that we have made it possible for a young person to acquire certain knowledge, certain skills, with which that person will be able to get a job and earn money for his own and for the existence of his family. In modern terms on the labour market in this syntagma, to be competitive and acceptable, there is indeed only one component of lifelong learning missing. What we learned at school, what we learned in college, is no longer enough and every employee and jobseeker must be ready for permanent learning, training, to acquire additional knowledge and skills. The government has already singled out the adult education strategy from 2004 and the Development Plan for the Education and Education System from 2005 to 2010 as a third priority area the development of lifelong learning habits in line with market needs. Adult education is part of a unique education system, it is part of the concept of lifelong learning, and it is extremely important to prefer permanent employability as a social but socially more quality category than permanent employment. So does our education system really give students, students of knowledge and those competences that can give them bread in their hands? Is our system being educated today for the Employment Service, the Stock Exchange, or does it really educate for employability? Is our education system adequate to enable people of adulthood to further education and give them the highest quality of all competences, which is employability, i.e. the possibility of employment? To that question, I think he tried to give an answer to this proposal of the Law on adult education. Except that adult education differs as formal, informal, informative and self-oriented, the bill regulates and institutions that implement all these forms of adult education, which are public and private institutions, public and private institutions, open schools, primary and secondary schools, higher schools, associations, companies, trades, crafts, but this is in our society and the Employment Service. This also regulates the status of Andragogian employees, but I think it actually shows more that it is a boned educational system that should naturally be flexible and follow also a flexible programme. For this reason, I really do not see the need for the employment of Andragogian employees in education institutions to be carried out only under the Labour Act. The programmes should be implemented by experts and they must be flexible as well as the programmes they implement. Therefore, not hiring on a specific or indefinite basis, but employment in terms of the implementation of a programme, or any form of contract. It is commendable that experts, Andragogian workers with years of practical experience in adult education, participated in the draft of this law. However, I must admit that they have also warned of certain failures contained in the bill in relation to the draft itself. The aim of this law should be to enable, i.e. to give special benefit to employers and employees participating in educational programmes. There was a seven-day educational leave in the draft. Unfortunately, the proposal of the profession was not accepted, and now the educational leave has been reduced to three days. The employer was given the possibility that this educational leave could, but it doesn't have to pay, which we know will eventually end. And at the same time a time ago, the benefits, as far as employers are concerned, of using tax relief to finance an educational program of their employees. I also think that this educational process should be completed not only by public correction but by enrolling in the workbook of title, i.e. knowledge, competence of the skills that has been acquired in this educational process because it is one lasting value and because it is ultimately the motivation of everyone to participate in these educational processes. The question is how adult education will fit into the whole educational process. Entrepreneurs, craftsmen today rightly warn of the lack of coordination in the creation of professional, but also other programmes between the state and potential employers from the private sector and that we do not have a clearly defined competence of skills for individual calling according to daily needs. Employers, now here's the time for seasonal employment saying they need a waiter, but that waiter doesn't speak two world languages. They say they need an administrative secretary, but they don't speak two world languages and they're not computerized. Therefore, the education system does not meet the needs of the market and it is not the user of the education system that created it. This education system needs to be changed. After you finished school, you got a certificate, you got a degree, but you didn't seem to get enough skills you needed to get a job and stay employed. Be expected of you to learn this in the workplace, but this employer does not expect his future worker to gain knowledge in the workplace, he expects a man who has knowledge. Therefore, this points to the need to review the quality of the education system, and it is not on this pay phone to say that there will be no happiness for this country until we realize that professional competence is one side of the medal, and that on the other hand there is literacy, literacy in the mother tongue, literacy in one world language, foreign language and digital literacy, the Andragogical profession also warns. And only when we absorb what competences of a employable worker are we can work on a system where more than 69.5% of graduates and high school students would then switch to a higher education system and improve that 12% today in a population of people with higher and higher professional qualifications, and only then can we actually talk about quality adult education. Even the missing Andragogical documentation speaks of a frightening fact that only 2.3% of adults are involved in lifelong learning in Croatia today, and in Slovenia for example. The number is 15.9, which is why Croatia has dropped from 67th to 88th according to a survey of the global competitiveness report on adult development. Studies have also shown that they are more educated and more ready to enter the educational process and that foreign languages often improve in programming languages. Private universities already know the answer to a question that we are just trying to formulate. So Austrian... The centre that has its own branch in Budapest promotes the active relationship of future employer and future employer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The employer expresses his intention to hire workers with certain skills and competences, participates in the selection of candidates, the centre educates candidates for certain skills and then enters into a contract with the employer. ... The centre is educated today for over 700 professions, considered even a more quality education system than the state and in Croatia I think there is enough space for private programs and that the Croatian employer today must have the opportunity to participate in the creation of an education system based on his knowledge and experience, and therefore in the part of the professional competences and skills that the Croatian worker should have today, and the acquisition of competence really is not just a privilege, it is an obligation of a modern worker, not only for those who want it, should apply to everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can be achieved naturally by raising awareness of the importance of lifelong learning. How important knowledge confirms that every public gathering with the social and scientific weight in the country and abroad with topics related to contemporary globalisation processes, improving the quality of life and of course new employment necessarily begins and ends with the emphasis on knowledge and knowledge acquisition processes, skills and competences as well as on further improvement. The importance of lifelong learning is also demonstrated by the fact that the competitiveness of acquisition and preservation of work competence ensures exactly permanent learning and that permanent employment has been distributed today into permanent employability. Therefore, every effort should be supported to put lifelong learning into the first place, and adult education is also part of lifelong learning. Our task is to systematically work on this spill-over from one educational category to another, or from lower to higher, to describe the illiterate working-active population, to provide a number of enrolled and completed high school students as well as a number of enrolled and completed college studies. I would finish my presentation with the hope that a public tender that will award budget money to educational institutions for the implementation of adult education programmes will not be directed at surplus but deficitary occupations. The employment office is the only place where the deficit is desirable. Unfortunately, the registration quotas for enrolment in secondary and university programmes are not in proportion to the needs of the Croatian labour market, so we say that, unfortunately, the Croatian education system is still education for the stock market today, not for employment. We do not know whether this law can fully answer all these questions, but in the SDP club we believe that we should try, welcome the adoption of this Law and hope that an active debate will allow some improvements until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68121	Thank you. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68122	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Representative, allow me to briefly answer a few questions that you've been having a problem with. First, I would refer to the article 10 that you mentioned, so where you said it should actually open up the possibility of hiring Andragogian employees under an act contract. We accept that observation, and surely we will enter into the second paragraph, so that such an option is open, and moreover, it does not require full-time work for an expert coming from the economy, and it is precious to emerge from the economy. You were talking about compulsory educational leave. I'd like to remove those doubts that should be more days. Of course, we have to do it in agreement with our social partners, so with the union and the employers. We've been proposing for seven days, but we haven't found each other on it. As for some benefits to employers, we cannot regulate this law but in fact by tax laws, and we have announced to the Ministry of Finance that we will go with a proposal where we would define but where it really needs the benefits of employers who encourage the education of their employees. You were also talking about enrollment in the workbook. Well, we're doing it now. So everything that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports verifys, so all training and training programs are entered in the workbook. But what is not subject to verification for which institutions do not require verification is therefore a category of informal education where they actually educate someone because they want to know. He may not need it at all for the labour market, but he wants to know a certain computer program or something. Exit competences will, of course, be clearly defined not only at secondary education level, but also at higher education level. That's the job we're about to do. However, informal education is why it serves unless someone is satisfied with the competence they acquired after high school. You mentioned two sides of the language. He can go to foreign - language school, learn another language, and show the employer that he knows and accepts the job. So, many times, of course, formal education doesn't give all the competences that the employer requires, and that's why we have adult education to sort of supplement it. You were also talking about private, therefore private institutions, or those universities that were founded by individuals. We put them in the same position in this law. Therefore, both the state and local communities under this law will call competitions for certain programmes that can be applied to and therefore universities established by natural persons but also public institutions where local community founders are. There are not many of these in many European countries. I dare say we've made a significant step here. And in the end, it's only about the registration quotas. The ministry accepts what schools propose in agreement with the county. So that's the order. The school will send the county what kind of registration policy it wants for the next school year, and then the county will give consent to it or not. So it is their great responsibility in that part to create an entry policy in the first row towards the needs of the local economy, and, of course, at the ministry or at the state level, we do not oppose it because I believe that they have well rated it. If they didn't sometimes, I hope that this process started and that much more will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68123	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68124	It is an incorrect allegation, Mr. Secretary of State, that there will be a change in the tax rules that you are about to propose regarding tax charges for adult education. Let's get you in line with the Ministry of Finance. Here in the Croatian Parliament, less than a month ago, all provisions of the Tax on Profits Act were abolished, from income tax which they had in their contents tax on discharge and tax relief related to the permanent improvement of employees and all these things related to education including education, the improvement of persons with disabilities, etc. And the saying of that was said by Minister Shuker here that there was no way that it would remain within tax laws and tax charges because for that simply. In fact, the justification was that it was not in line with the directives, so they asked which EU directives then said they couldn't write... Because there is no such directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that it's not in line with those directives that aren't actually there. Anyway, in tax laws, it can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68125	The HNS Club is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68126	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. For decades, we've actually lived in error. I don't know who's propagating this delusion, but someone is that one of the comparative advantages of Croatia is the highly educated workforce with which we go to Europe. No problem at all, we'll get along great there. And then it turns out it's not like that. The data we received in the light of this law is actually tragic. 105332 Croatian citizens have never exceeded the school threshold. 580379 went to primary school, but unfortunately they didn't finish it. 801168 Croatian citizen left and successfully completed primary school, but did not move on. So, a total of 1 million 486 879 Croatian citizens are at the level of education of primary school or below, and we are talking about a Europe of knowledge, we are talking about Croatia's knowledge entering Europe of knowledge. We're talking about networks, information, software, those stop shops as already these expressions go, and a million and a half people out of a total of three, let's say, who are over 18 years old are actually so I have to say, but functionally illiterate. People who are very hard to deal with in life with letters that are unable to read a more serious newspaper, only those where there are very many pictures. That's why we have a lot of newspapers on the market. Permanent education is no longer a phrase she is a necessity. It's something that needs to be confessed to the ministry. The ministry saw the situation, saw where the problem was and reacted to this law, which, unfortunately, is declarative in the good part. He says, people need to be educated, a large percentage of the population is uneducated. We need to bring them to the level of competitiveness in the labour market, not only ours but also European. We should do it. We have to do this. We're gonna do it. But I can't see, and at the HNS Club, we couldn't find the answers to how it would be done. In this context, the importance of computer literacy and knowledge in a modern globalised world without access to networks, without access to computers, without using computers should be particularly highlighted. In fact, you're nowhere to be found, isolated in your little corner whether the Balkans or the United States is perfect anyway, but you're in your corner and you're not going anywhere else. I'm sorry the law doesn't pay much attention to that. It is also a scary table compared to other countries on page 6 that speaks about the percentage of adults involved in extended education. It's 2.1%. We are ahead of Bulgaria and Romania's future member of the European Union, but we do not need some very great comfort. We were ahead of them for decades, and we didn't count on it for any special convenience. One question that this law and many other laws that come here in front of us actually don't answer is a simple question that's always being asked in the American Congress, and that's a question of who's going to pay for it, who's going to pay for this whole job. The table on page 7 says who's paying for it in Germany. In Germany, employers pay the most in percentages, then the employment unions, then the students, then the federal state, the provinces and the local communities. Our bill of law opens up wide possibilities. Everyone can and can finance it. No one's allowed to finance. However, no one has to finance it. That's not the law. What is the will of the state to finance it is best seen as all the will of the state in the state budget. The state budget envisioned 6.5 million kuna for the job in two items. It explains the figures of the items. With $6.5 million, I've worked 35 years in the field, and I know how much that job costs. It's expensive sport, expensive work. With $6.5 million, nothing can be done, nothing at all. How much of the state's intention and will to deny itself to support the functional descriptiveness of its citizens and the education of its citizens was best seen recently two, three months ago when the proposal for the law of counterpart Kramaric proposed the introduction of some new tax reliefs to employers, a profit tax for money invested in the education of employees. Not only has it not been accepted, but the old reliefs have been properly erased. So the state does not want to give up its 20% profit tax on any money that would be paid for education, which employers would pay for the education of their workers. If this is not denied and we believe that some large funds will be given up because it takes huge resources to bring these million and a half people to the level of functional literacy, they can compete tomorrow not as channel diggers but as competent persons in the European knowledge market. Or these people are simply being ordered, so you see it's too late for you. It's too late for you. We don't know exactly what we're going to do with you. If anyone remembers paying for you to be educated, if no one remembers, you'll have to invent something else. It won't be possible for these people to pay for their own education, for a very simple reason, if it's a million and a half people with the highest eight-year-old school, you can think that they usually don't work in places where they could single out a few hundred kunas a month for the needs of their education. It's people who get or don't get a salary of a thousand, two, two, two, two, let's say three thousand kuna a month. Their participation in their own education is actually rude to count, hypocritically, it's simply not true. These people can't and won't. The fact that people with higher incomes are not ready to engage their own means of education is not true. I'm working on a high school facility that also has extraordinary studies. In part, employers pay for these extraordinary studies because these people need them and, in part, they pay themselves a relatively high price. They're willing to pay, they're willing to give up a new car and a better car because they want a smarter and better future for themselves and their children, but these people do. These are people who, for example, go from more professional training to high school or possibly people who are already in high-school management places to higher or higher education. They have a place to pay from, but these million and a half neither now nor will they ever have if we don't make it possible for them by some regulation and we don't commit someone to actually worry. And I don't see who else should take care of the citizens except the state. Where is the emphasis of this bill? The emphasis is on retraining first. First, to describe, of course, those who have to catch a level of literacy in order to further education. Then requalification. Obviously, the formal education system doesn't give you enough first of all skills, I'm not talking about knowledge. Knowledge may even be yes. But the skills directly needed by employers certainly do not give enough and then people are forced to go for retraining to simply learn beyond the system of work where there is no possibility of error, in order to learn the skills they will need in this work process. The emphasis was also placed on one part of the emphasis on higher education. To take a realistic look at our higher education system, the network that exists today, and the way it can be brought to a collapse. It's relatively simple. One amendment to the Law on Defence last year led to the University of Zagreb several thousand students more than would normally be enrolled at the University of Zagreb. A number of Zagreb colleges, the most popular of all, have collapsed. Deans on TV, Deans on the newspaper, we're doing it by 11:00, we can't handle it, the system is overloaded, we don't have enough people, we don't have enough space, we don't have enough equipment that's all true. It is also true that our universities are especially this old, Zagreb first of all, inert institutions. By the logic of things, I can't be different and it would be bad if they were different. All old universities are inert and therefore give a certain tradition and quality. However, in order to achieve this level of education of the nation above high school, post-secondary education is achieved as we swear, in which we see ourselves as role models. Finland, Ireland and other countries. Financial and organisational new forms should also be supported in the system. New universities built on the "deparement" principle. New universities, new high schools. So institutions that can react faster and more flexiblely to labour market requirements and to profession requirements in fact. Only in this way will we be able to capture the countries we want to catch by the percentages we see ourselves in. Let's not fool ourselves. There are no Finland 25, 30% of highly educated people who have graduated from Oxford and Cambridge and similar universities. Of them, the 20% or 25% certainly ended up with a certain... , University of aplay scenarios, polytechnics and similar places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is good. These are people who in such places acquire not only knowledge but also skills and engage directly in, can be directly involved in the work in their profession. When talking about adult education at post-secondary level, it should be accepted that this job is even more expensive than at lower levels and that the state should, and could also work on a system of financing, lending or scholarship of students. Of course not just extraordinary but regular ones. The mechanisms exist. These mechanisms have already been tried in some counties and should only be applied to the state level. Of course, they would have to meet at least with a sign in a bill like this. So all in all, the problem this law sees is evident and no one argues that the problem exists. The solutions the law offers, I'm afraid, are not concrete. It seems to me that this text of the law actually calls for concrete solutions that will guarantee that, apart from the establishment of the agency, something real will happen in adult education and happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68127	Thank you. For the HSLS Club, respected Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, surely this law is ahead of us today because of the fact that we need to work harder on the competitiveness of the country and the ability for the country to offer more skilled labour than cheaper labour than the countries in our neighborhood. It is certain that we cannot afford to pay workers less than they pay in China, Albania or elsewhere, but that is why we can offer a workforce that can do more sophisticated jobs. And our education structure of the population is really low. If college education is 7.8% it's certainly a low percentage for developing country. If we calculate how highly educated she is in the city of Zagreb and then try to calculate what it means for other cities in Croatia, then it is the best proof that we really need this law. And any country that wants faster economic development can't achieve this with such a small percentage of highly educated people because new technologies are looking for new competences of employees and are really behind us when a degree could be hired and welcomed a pension without obtaining some new knowledge, so the need for lifelong learning is expressed regardless of the level of diploma of formal education. I will also remind myself of data from European Union countries where 9.7% of employees are included in lifelong learning during the period, i.e. between 24 and 65 years of age. And with us, it's 2.1%. It is therefore necessary to encourage employees to constantly acquire new knowledge in order to be ready to keep their jobs or to move forward and to be unemployed in order to adapt to labour market needs. But unfortunately, we continue with this kind of schooling, with really visible shifts, but we still lack education for people who have nowhere to work. Therefore, we should welcome the adoption of this law as an affirmation of lifelong learning with us, as well as the project for Croatian literacy "The Road to the desired future" because here I will say that by 2013 the number of people who have not completed all primary school classes will probably be reduced. Just before we heard the data of how many people without elementary school, and that's about 680 thousand, and in the last two years, in the last two primary schools ended up 2000 adults. We'll try to fix the law by the articles. In Article 2, where the principle of lifelong professional orientation is mentioned, I think it is closely related to the field of vocational education. So just for some target groups, time-limited so maybe the law should relieve that part and delete it. In the 10th article where we talk about Andragogic activities, I think, and I think that there is a high consensus that working relationship is based on a working contract, so they should be considered to be given the opportunity to build a contract of action. So to add another article that would allow them to make it possible for institutions that would deal with adult education, experts, andragogic activities, employees to work for 2 or 4 hours depends on how much need there is. So it is certain that the need for their work will be occasional. It will therefore be possible to build an act contract in addition to their basic work, making that need easier to achieve. It will, of course, be cheaper for all of whom the financing article is later on. In Article 19 concerning the exercise of the right to an educational leave of at least 3 days a year, the exercise of that right shall be determined by agreement between workers and employers. It is good that this issue of educational leave provided for and the Labour Act has come to this law, however, it is necessary to consider under what conditions the employer of the employer is entitled to educational leave because employers are ready to defend themselves for one reason or another, but largely and with the right... It's possible they actually educate people who will later work with someone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One part of it and they finance it and they give it their days off and they don't know where he's going to go with this acquired knowledge, which is often the rule of scholarships given by certain cities, municipalities and counties. It is a good thing that an agency for educated adults is established as a professional basis, in support of the current agencies. But maybe the law was to be passed first, and then set up an agency. And in this law, specify exactly what will be its tasks, obligations and duties, except for the supervision of the professional work of adult education institutions. I'd also like to draw attention to the funding. Unfortunately, we have to answer the question a colleague mentioned earlier, which is who will pay for it. Everyone who knows what the budget means, how money is spent from the budget. Then when we get some law, we usually know how much he is enforceable and what effects he will have in the end. It is certain that so far it has been too expensive for the students, since somewhere in the third degree it stood about for the students and up to 9,000 kunas. Now imagine how much a worker earns, which was his chance to single out nine thousand kunas for his education. The commitment to the participation of the state budget and the budget of the units of local and regional, or regional self-government, will create assumptions that these funds are more acceptable for the participants, i.e. to be something lower. However, I am afraid and I am obliged to warn that units of local self-government cannot withstand the burden itself that is transferred to them. I'm talking about firemen again, schools, extra education, extra education. In the end, we will succeed only from our budgets to cover only what the state gives us. And with centralized taxes as we have with the City of Zagreb which actually has a budget as large as a good ministry, and with very non-transparent spending of money which can afford the question is how other cities can handle it. I will draw attention on behalf of the HSLS Club to the fact that solutions must be found. Maybe this is the one time that despite the high unemployment rate at the beginning of the tourist season we have a shortage of several thousand seasonal workers, that this number of fortunately increases, which should mean that the need for them is greater to the lack of qualified masters in the building, professional staff in catering, and also to those who would be working on seasonal jobs. And we have to admit, there are a lot of black people. Perhaps quality requalification and that work on black decreases. In fact, there is information that nearly 30,000 people are working in the summer, or during the season’s black employment, which means almost one medium - size city. And when we figure out what the losses are from where these workers come from, then it's probably an alarm, and maybe this is one way of trying to solve the problem. Except that we will therefore support this law, in the belief that it will make our workforce more competitive and competitive, that we will deal with the requirements that are coming to the country, because it is entirely wrong for investors who are coming to the country to offer cheap land and cheap labour, this can certainly be found in other neighbouring countries. What they are far more concerned about is pre-administration, lack of inspection or lack of highly educated people. And those are the things to work on. However, in order for this to be feasible, it is therefore necessary to reconsider whether such funding can be realised, how the budgets of local self-government will be submitted. And it would be interesting to see what the results of the tests were done by the schools at the end of the year and how they were related to the equipment of the school. Because when we talk about the standard then it's not just a pedagogical standard, but, of course, the equipment of a school that certainly has a relationship, it doesn't necessarily have to, but it probably has the results of students' knowledge. That would be good information for the start of the fall session, and probably very important in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68129	Thank you. State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68130	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let me, in short-respected MPs and MPs, comment on what Mrs Adlesic said on behalf of the HSLS club. The truth is that the number of highly educated in percentages varies from middle to middle, but this law cannot be corrected. Namely, if we have 7.9% in the entire Republic of Croatia, and for example in Međimurje we have one over 3%, then the problem is in something other than this law itself. He's not going to fix it himself, it's simply about how many citizens are going to go to further school. However, we accept the comment on Article 2 where, subparagraph 2 is referred to as lifelong professional orientation. It is therefore completed the moment when the Employment Service does so and later an adult should not be directed professionally because of what she knows very clearly what to do to her. In Article 10, I have already said that we will accept this observation that a contract of action can also be concluded, with the existing solution proposed. In article 19 of the educational leave, I said that we wanted more days, but here, we agreed. But this observation states that it might need to be specified that it would not really happen that the employer gives educational leave and encourages the education of his employee who may be educated for another employer, so he should have an interest there. Maybe they can work it out in an agreed manner in a way that's best for him. The law is now, this is the first reading. We'll have another reading in the fall. And before that, we brought in the Agency's regulations. I just want to remind you here that in law alone, we don't need to define what the adult education agency's jobs are. We defined this in Article 2. The regulations that have already been adopted believe very precisely. Finally, when it comes to local communities that are founders of adult education institutions, of course their obligation is both investment maintenance and investment and material costs, so this should not go to a public tender. And the public tender would actually only go to the smaller part relating to the programmes that the local community is interested in, because it doesn't have to mean that what the interested state is about to meet exactly the local economy of each end. So then the local community will call a tender and share funds and public institutions, as well as those who are founders of a natural person, in accordance with their interests. Because it actually directly encourages the economy of its end, and of course it will get into the budget, so it is certain that it will return to them. And we hope that local communities will have the hearing to encourage those programs they really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68131	Thank you. For the club HSU, the esteemed representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm listening to my colleagues talk and say, so you shouldn't have told yourself, these are educators, they know the profession, they speak so Mediterraneanly, but we say something like economists. Gentlemen, Secretary of State, this should be brought into line with the Labour Act, with the Employment Act and with tax policy or tax system. Without it, this is the law of good wishes. We'll support it as a Club of Representatives. We want you to make an additional effort to try to bring things into line by the second reading, and if the same Labour Act remains, the same Employment Act, the same tax system, then I believe that many of the good things you've indicated here will not come true. Why? So because the characteristic of our labour market is a relatively weak link between the particular need of market, labour and the characteristics of the education system. The education system goes on its own, we wander, we adapt. The transition is in the economy, jobs last as long as certain technologies last. If technology is obsolete for 5 years, then the interest of obsolescence because new technology requires new skills, new skills, new habits, and we traditionally learn something that is not tailored to a particular need for the market. But who needs it now? This is where I listen to who's supposed to create it. Just educators? No, I don't. They have to get an impulse from the labour market. Who's supposed to do that? This should be the first stock companies or private employers to plan a specific... And tell me in five years, I'll have a production plant with such and such technology, and you can go ahead and educate me and those personnel, but I need to invest in these personnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who needs to bet? Well, not just the local community or this six-and-a-half million kuna we're predicting in the budget. We need all of us together, and most of all, those to whom this workforce will bring direct profit. It is vital that more than ever, self - education, work education, or as we now call it lifelong education because without this lifelong education there is no legal or life security tomorrow, and it has to become part of our daily life, we have to put it into our own head that it's the only way we can go forward. Croatia can compete on the global market or with its competition, which means low labour costs or other basics of knowledge and investment in people to achieve high productivity and high standards. We don't want to throw each other away. Both alternatives should be equal, with it easier to invest in knowledge or to invest more in knowledge and in people because these people will use it, perfect throughout the working age of 40, tomorrow perhaps 43 years. We need to work it out, work it out. I have to say, it's especially important to take care of how people agree to do it. So let's let the children teach us old. When I'm 70 with my grandson, I surf, so is that better when your grandson sits down and says, "Come on, let's go.", right. So from these young people we have to learn a lot, and we have to learn, they learn and we learn, we have fun together, and what's most important is that we hang out with each other, we become partners, not that grandfather and grandson. So today I've heard so many speakers here. Mr. Secretary, tell me if 10.8% of the workforce is involved in continuous or permanent education and lifelong education, and with us 2.3, or with this data in each of us that we've given here is accurate. Then tell me what's the exact information? Either all the data is accurate we just looked at the wrong books or we got confused for years, so last year there was one data, this year another. You're talking about openness and schools and universities here. Well, that's a prerequisite for everything. Our school system is unfortunately too closed. And why is it too closed? Well, because we don't even put a piece of it on the market. So we should say that a certain school that educates people for occupations must earn 30% of its income on the extreme market. Until we say so, it won't be of interest. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd suggest something. I would suggest that people who have been unemployed for more than 12 months are necessarily requalified or trained for a new profession, what the agency says at the county level, what the newly opened agency says, etc., so they must attend a certain educational programme. They don't sit in the markets, drink coffee and spend their days and get a certain small fee at the employment office, they get a job internship, and we live without perspective. The days are coming, yes. [[Intruder: The days are coming.]] The days are coming. I'd like to tell them the next story with this law of "get the beat." This law is wide enough to catch a rhythm, let's now include the agency, the development agency at the level of the county, to include the funds of the Croatian Employment Service and private funds which, but to train people. We don't have a builder, we don't have a carpenter, we don't have a welder, we don't have a shrub or ceramics, and we have to say it's an occupation that a little more intelligent worker can learn within six months. He doesn't need high theoretical knowledge, he needs practical work because you get knowledge in the regular system, but after this I'm just repeating, or upgrading, and we're teaching him from the beginning as if history or I don't know anything else is very important, so then 3 hours learns history, and 1 hour learns practical work. Let's just study practical work, so let it perfect itself so that after 3 months or 6 months he can learn for the carpenter if it's a need for the market but then he should also work on the basis of these needs and not the programs to work at the desk in the cabinet and when he comes to the workplace the work is quite different. Secondly, more flow of information from the labour market towards the education system should be ensured. Please, you have a level of ministry coordination. This coordination should find a way to improve these things, how to give as many language communication skills as possible to entrepreneurship, information literacy, mathematics, etc. in the programmes. Not that we're doing it on such a basis that in high school we think we're educating a college-educated man. Give as much as it takes for a certain technology to master and be one of the best in its profession because occupation is so not an eternal category. Then, you should consider that some of the funds are not known at what level, but consider that part of the funds is allocated for purpose. It must be allocated from the income part of the funds for the permanent education of workers who generate that income and profit. And neither Mr. Shucker nor the Judge nor anyone else should be against it because that's what workers create and that's how they'll return to the workers. And what should ultimately go into changes in the tax system, it needs to be adapted, it needs to stimulate the whole of life education but especially this self-educated system. It looks like we're forgetting this self-educated system and it's very important. At home you can learn everything and go to the craft chamber and pass a certain exam, masterly etc. Therefore, this kind of education should also be stimulated. And if that's worth ten thousand kunas, let's release him in a tax return, we give him a certain benefit. Here, thank you very much. I may have approached this problem differently because I'm not an educational worker, so it's hard for me to talk more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68133	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68134	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen! The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club has considered and will support the first reading of the Proposed Law on adult education because it considers it to be a significant shift in relation to the existing situation. In its four-year term, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been set to develop education and education as irreplaceable for the success and better life of all citizens, which the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports. Only educated citizens can compete on the economic market and therefore set out for lifelong learning in the development plan for education and education is taking an important and inevitable place and this entire life-long learning to include adults especially unemployed in training programmes for inclusion in the labour market. Croatia has launched a number of changes in the system of education and education. We will only mention that in June 2005, the government adopted a strategic development document aimed at improving the education and education systems, the development plan for education and education from 2005 to 2010. In 2005, HNOS was introduced as a pilot for the purpose of decommissioning student curricula. The teaching process is based on the teaching process and is directed towards the student by respecting his abilities and proclivities. The student is being introduced into research-oriented teaching. A reform of vocational education aimed at implementing measures has been launched, the Professional Education Agency has been established to implement planning, organisation, monitoring and evaluation of the school system, professional training staff training in the field of vocational education. Another important institution established for the introduction of external evaluation of student outcomes and achievements is the National Centre for External Evaluation. This institution also conducted very successful national exams from Croatian, mathematics and foreign languages in the first grade of high school. This evaluation will best show students' achievements as well as schools. In high school, a national prom was introduced. A recent proposal for the Law on the Education and Education Agency was presented in the first reading, which will be a replacement for the current Institute of Education. The Agency will participate in developing, implementing national curricula, assisting educational institutions, conducting professional training. The proposal for a law on adult education is a major shift in relation to the existing status of adult education and will bring more order into this area. Adult education is not a novelty in Croatia, it has a long tradition but has never been systematically solved. So far, adult education has been regulated by the Law on primary education, the Law on secondary education and the Law on Open Schools. In particular, adult education is an important area based on the concept of lifelong learning and on the principles of openness and accessibility for all. By passing this law, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will play an irreplaceable role in coordinating and achieving the objectives set, which is important because the responsibility of those who are now engaged in education will be greater, the responsibility of state, local and regional self-government, employer or individual is established. Adult education is defined as a public service, Article 2(2), which will certainly contribute to increasing the awareness of education in society. We must be concerned with the very poor education structure of society. Even 15.76% of adults without their primary school. The Ministry of State Budget is now funding a project for Croatian literacy "The Road to the Preferred Future". Data from 79.2% of children who enter high school after graduation and 69.5% finish within the deadline, data on unemployed say that as many as 64% are unemployed with high school, which tells us about labour market inconsistencies and education, which shows that adult education is a very important segment of education. All these needs and questions are answered by the concept of lifelong learning. Accepting this concept of adult education also defines the system of financing. The entire adult education in Croatia is now left to a market where end-users, the participants bear the costs of their education. So far they have been financed from the State budget in different ministries individually and occasionally, which is certainly not systematic funding. This proposal provides for Articles 25, 26 and 27 to provide for adult education in the State budget in order to implement a programme of primary, secondary education and other education programmes. The cost of payment, promotion and development of education will certainly ensure both the quality of education and the greater responsibility of those who carry out teaching. It should be noted that in some places the quality of education is questionable. Not in all the facilities. Schools, popular open universities are mostly very serious about these jobs and in some private institutions we can say the quality of teaching is questionable and therefore more adults are choosing this very institution. We also refer to Article 28 which stipulates that funding from the State budget or budget of units of local and regional, regional self-government is awarded to adult education institutions on the basis of a public tender. We suggest that the law prescribes what is the criteria that must be met and who brings these criteria? Article 17 lays down which institutions may implement an adult education programme. The terms are prescribed by the minister. We warn that these conditions must be strict. That they must provide space adapted to teaching, professional and material conditions, which means that these institutions must also have permanent lecturers, and not only those who come as part-time lecturers. For the monitoring and development of adult education, the Council for adult education and adult education, which we believe will also contribute to greater control and supervision of the overall adult education process. A special place in the bill is taken by teachers. Andragogical staff who teach in adult education institutions. We propose that Article 11 quote: "Andragogical employees have the right and the duty of professional and Andragogic training determine not only the duty of professional training but also the obligation of professional training. Most teachers, teachers, teachers, and teachers do not learn much about working with adults during their education, and many are not qualified to work in adult education. The Croatian Democratic Community's club proposes to establish the obligation of professional and Andragogic training for all teaching in adult education. And finally from the basic document, the adult education strategy that was adopted in November 2004, the Action Plan of the adult education strategy until the proposal for a law on adult education puts this area at the heart of our interests without which the overall development of society is not possible. All these documents will contribute to the quality of adult education. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will therefore support the proposed law in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68135	Thank you very much. In 16,35 according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 207 timed out for application of 10 minutes. It's the HSS Club and Mr. Representative Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, with his associates. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's, unlike my predecessors, I'm not going to be too long on numbers, maybe just two, three figures that we all know, and which, perhaps from the aspect of the HSS are really important to this bill. According to the 2001 census, burning problems were identified by the percentage of the population's literacy in Croatia. According to the list on one side, 19% of residents over 15 who have not completed primary school, or 15.76% of older people who do not have a primary school. On the other hand, 7.8% are highly educated, well below the average of the European Union countries. These are some initial, basic assumptions based on which I suppose you can build and talk about this proposal for a law on adult education. The first step in solving this problem was by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 to accept the initiative... Resolution 54, The General Assembly adopts a document for Croatian literacy "The Road to the Desirable Future" or "The Decade of Literature 2003-2012". A new educational plan and programme for adult education were then developed in 2003, and money was provided for adult education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They created the opportunity for students to finish primary school and to qualify for some simpler professions. It remains for a serious analysis of why only 1209 persons have taken part in this primary education from the 90 600 target group from 15 to 50 years of life despite the means provided. A safe analysis is needed to see the mistakes that can also be an obstacle to the implementation of this much more demanding and challenging project, I am talking about the Law on adult education. Another step is to adopt a strategy on adult education by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2004. This proposal for a law on adult education is a logical sequence of activities that preceded it. So first of all, it is important to welcome the law because it wants to regulate an important area. And that is why any well-intentioned remark should be accepted as an HSS contribution to improvement at the end and final draft laws. It is good to call the bill among other things to the principle of lifelong learning, which is a leading principle in education in the 21st century in line with the 2000 Memorandum of Lifelong Learning. Maybe when you mention the principle of lifelong learning here. In fact, through the overall opening explanation, it is interpreted that this law is also part of the concept of lifelong learning. I would, however, like to use the term of the principle of lifelong learning, as in law use that term. Because the concept is still a termologically slightly different document. What I would now like to say about the law itself is to allow some specific articles to comment on the law. What might be questionable in this bill? I think we can agree when we find out that this law is indeed general, or rather very general, and the concreteisation of key issues is left to the ministers' decisions. A typical example is Article 17 of the proposed law. Therefore, not all the essential elements of its implementation are seen today. And it seems to us that this is precisely what is important for such a sensitive area in order to better develop the implementing elements of this law. We also ask ourselves whether a law, such a significant law, can be passed and not at the same time a package of laws and sublaws that must also be based on the proposed principles, first and foremost on the principle of lifelong learning. But when it comes to principles, one remark, Article 2 should add two other principles, other than those listed here, which is the education of marginalised adults in other age groups and diversity and flexibility of educational opportunities. This is our suggestion that there is room among these principles that are now mentioned in Article 2. Article 4 provides that institutions of both primary schools and secondary schools and public schools are to implement education programmes. According to us, this segment applies only to primary schools, secondary schools and mere universities may be a small and too narrow area. You should think about it, here's only as one option, if the suggestion might not be better to open up the possibility of large economic systems with them. Like Croatian forests, Croatian roads and other large economic facilities, they can also educate and train for their needs. We also have an article 5, which first mentions the need to finance this project. And it is good to predict funding from the state budget and the local community, of course with the participants and employers. But if we're talking about this funding, then I'd say this is how it's presented, it's still a little vague, a little fluid. I'd say a more beautiful wish if I didn't use another term. It is safe to say how isolated it will be at each level. Because one of the key factors that depends on the success of this project is financing. It is also cost-effective to explain that more educated people are more interested in education and are involved in learning processes as opposed to less educated people who should have a greater need for further learning. This in itself means that those who assume to earn more and more can eventually allocate additional funds for their additional education. What about those other people who won't be able to raise any more significant funds? I think it should be precisely categorized for what level who pays and how much. So, the student, the employer, the local self-government and the state. What if the local community has educational needs and no resources? We can ask the next question, who will coordinate activities at national and local level, especially when it comes to tendering? For example, Article 28. And of course, when the contest is called, during what time period? Nothing's been specified, nothing's been worked out. The teaching can further be carried out under the law of the andragogics in the working relationship in the institution, it is a working contract. However, are the institutions sufficiently staffed so that they do not need andragogical assistance from outside associates, professors, possibly other teachers? We're all aware together that right now there's an enormous lack of professors, that's what I'm saying at the university level, and we'd like to have quality education here, too. Here, to consider whether or not outside associates should be helped. What we may, in particular, be a little concerned at this point is quite a bit of uncertainty, Articles 19 and 20 that talk about leave I don't know, says employees can exercise the right to educational leave for at least 3 days a year, the exercise of the right to educational leave is determined by the worker and the employer by agreement. I don't know, we think that the members of the work should be allowed flexible working hours and paid leave. I'm going back a little bit to article 6 that talks about adult education programs. I think there should be a lot of systematicization of these programs that are written here because I can't help but think that there are certain overlaps. Either you need to group or you need to narrow down a bit, but you need to cover the whole area. It is also mentioned in Article 3(3) that programmes are brought by an institution for adult education, and on the second page of Article 12, it is mentioned that the examinations are organised and implemented by an adult education institution which, of course, implements an education programme. The key question here is I'd say whether or not we're going to valorize the programs or the results? There's no such thing here in the law. We think it must be right to acquire new competences. In my view, the evaluation of the results should be awakened according to a register of programmes at national level, and the register prescribes competences that can be acquired. Thus, the level of education is evened no matter where the environment is realized. And only for the end of the transitional and final provision. I have to admit, I suppose it's in itself understood, but it's not quite clear enough here whether the adoption of the Law on adult education is going to stop or not. I suppose it'll stop working, but it should still be written in transitional and final terms. If they cease to apply, it is necessary to adopt certain sub-legislative acts, or may be planned to regulate the learner with its instruments which should regulate the monitoring and evaluation of success, the submission of relevant, corrective, class examinations, the completion of final exams, the duration of education, the examination of enrolment and the choice of candidates for enrolment in the adult education programme. I repeat, as I said at the outset, this is a good initiative, but we think that, for the final second reading, we should do a little more work and consider our well-intentioned remarks that I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68138	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I suggest that we go back to the end on the subject today, which is adult education, but to get into the topic we must remember some things that are very unfavourable at this point in Croatia. On the one hand, we know that we have an unfavourable education structure of the population in Croatia because the fact that 7.9% has, only 7.9% has high professional equipment, i.e. that 15.76% of the population in Croatia does not have finished primary school speaking for themselves enough. On the other hand, we have brigades of young people who have acquired higher education, so we're not talking about elementary education or secondary education, but they have higher education, so from the data that the promoter also provided us here, so at this point in Croatia there's a little less than 300 thousand unemployed people. The situation is a little better because of the fact that now is the time of the tourist season so the current seasonal affairs are, but we have to worry that at the same time at the Croatian Employment Service we have more than 35,000 young people, people who have completed higher education, or more education, and who on average wait for the first job for up to 5 years, up to 5 years for the first job, and on the other hand we have a poor demographic picture of Croatia with an even worse forecast. And now it's a situation, so they've been waiting for employment for the first five years, and after that, the first job they get for a certain time, and now we want to make a system. This attempt is nothing. This is an attempt to draw attention to the necessity of adult education, but we need to be aware of the facts we do not have a designed system. In order to be able to do something and act, there must be one whole system. The system means training, reaching a highly educated part of the Croatian population, but a higher education part of the Croatian population, which will also be an incentive for the development of Croatia and which will also be an incentive to repair the demographic picture of Croatia. On the other hand, we must have the needs of employers designed, not thrown out of the sleeves as various plans work and then what the state is doing and how it can do in terms of financing everything else. We don't have a system right now, we have an indicator, we have data, but we didn't come up with one whole to give the right answer to this whole problem, and it seems to me that the current adult education system is such that it only goes to the benefit of adult education. For them it is certain that they earn money, and so we at the Croatian party club right seem that this new system proposed in the law will primarily benefit from it by institutions, these now and private, meaning that they are dealing with adult education because they will certainly earn it. Now what will be the situation with everyone else in that system? So when we talk about the adult education system, then we have to distinguish two things. The first thing is that most will become involved in the adult education system in order to get employment, in order to provide the existence of their family and themselves and to be able to educate children and all that is necessary, means those most necessary conditions that must be created for man to live normally. The second group is normally people who are involved in education, first of all because they want to acquire new knowledge, new skills and for their needs, but in this Law, first of all, we need to look at the part of the unemployed Croatian citizens who for years, for years, have been waiting for work, and that is the first group of young, educated, and the unemployed who mean hard to get a job and the second group of people from 45 to 50 years who, when they lose, are now witnessing that they are losing their regular jobs at no time or can never get into a situation to get their jobs back, the possibility means solving their existence and that's the first thing that needs to be done, means one whole way of designing a system because this way we're going to give the impression that we're dealing with some important topic, important problem, it's the topic is an important problem, but this law doesn't solve it because we don't even have a complete system. Therefore, we at the Croatian Party Club of Rights support the government's intention to legally design and regulate this system of adult education but in a far more high quality, in a far more elaborate and whole way that will give answers not only to this part of adult education. It is important to see who will be able to educate adults, according to which programmes, which will be spent on this education, which adults can expect after the end, and we mainly think about the circle of adults who go to education to get employment. So that part needs to be designed and answered. And especially for this part of young people who have now graduated from higher education. As you young man who graduated law school, I've heard a lot of quiet, legal, economic or some technical sciences here, for which you will now re-school him, re-school him, and everything else when you have a man who's done but you don't give him a job. You don't give him the chance to create a family. So, when he creates his family, when he gets a job, then a housing issue needs to be resolved. Then he can create a family and then we can talk about a better demographic picture of Croatia. Because all of this has an impact on the very bad and no demographic image of Croatia. And it seems to me that we're getting into situations again if we don't come up with it and we don't get it right, we're just going to benefit from those who are now dealing with this education of adult institutions and those institutions that are going to enter that part because this is where the agency is scheduled. Normally, in Croatia, it's a normal situation when you don't know what you're going to start an agency, so name some people, and then they're going to get the impression of something being done. The agency knows how many different agencies we have. In fact, the agency was founded although it should be established by this law was established by a government regulation. We have seen on the Legislative Committee that one thing is written in the Government's regulation that agencies as already established what they are doing, the other in articles of the bill. Therefore, a false impression is given that something is going to be done in this area but there is no vision, there is no picture of what and in what way and how this looks to me like our football players at the World Cup who didn't know what they wanted and where they came at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68139	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, who has no pain, so she loses the right to debate on this agenda point. Then, Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, who also does not have one. Then Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68140	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues! I mean, at the very beginning, that there would be no confusion I strongly support the adoption of this law. And here I might add the word finally that we have some concrete indicators that Croatian society is finally going to some sort of excessive yet rather than just declarative steps towards what we all say we want to be, therefore the knowledge society or in some other way the knowledge economy, the society that teaches, etc. Although there is room for all those remarks that have been made so far in the debate that this law has, in fact, a lot of declarative character. But a little later on, though. I am not going to repeat these tax statistics on the illiteracy of the Croatian population here, that's a lot of words, but I would, in fact, primarily ask us here in the Croatian Parliament what and in what way and whether we in Croatia have strategically defined what level or what the Bench mark of literacy would say today in Croatia. What do we mean by a written man today in our country? If he listens to all these discussions, if he reads this law, it can be said that we consider a written person the person who graduated from primary school. My colleagues and colleagues, it's the 19th century. We're at 21. I mean, if we want to go forward then in terms of literacy, I think that we should not deny the data on a small number of people, or a large number of people who actually have completed their primary school and who should finish this compulsory education, I think we should set up that leaflet significantly more and talk about those concepts of trilingualism or functional literacy that includes at least one foreign language and we already have European documents that talk about two sides of the language with the mother tongue and information literacy, or digital language. Because if we're going to be satisfied that our literacy ends in a mandatory education that's eight years old, then we don't take that step forward that we need, and it seems to me that it might not be a place here in this law, but that somewhere we finally have to determine what strategy is in the development sense where it's a place of literacy, where that level we want to go is. Secondly, perhaps in a broader context when it comes to adult education. If we want a society that's based on lifelong learning, what's called life somewhere... In these international documents, I think we need to do a lot more than that not to pass the law and strategies and action plans related to adult education because lifelong learning is something much more, much wider. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In preparation for the debate on this law and thinking about it myself, I've heard some suggestions that I don't know simply, I'm not professional enough that we might also need a law on some lifelong learning, even though I think the 21st century which, in globalisation, has flexible models and then these flexible models apply to education. This is why learning is more talked about and less about formal forms of education, but it seems to me that one more extensive article in this broad context of lifelong learning has a place in the Law on adult education, although it has in some way essentially and been anticipating all these things by the fact that it recognises finally one law in the Republic of Croatia and the concept of informal and informative education and all of those very flexible forms. But two things are crucial here. The first is that we still don't have enough development in Croatia, it's a question of the constant development of the educational structure where we're just a little bit dangling in the dark. Now we have a little bit of a hyperinflation of various institutions that should be dealt with in one way or another by developing a system of support to the education system at various levels, so we've established a centre, we've left the office alone, and now we're changing it, so we have an Professional Education Agency, we're going to have adult education now. However, if in no way did we systematically set up that network of institutions which in any way would have been those... The functions of the ministry itself, the state itself, which is absolutely correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, to make a systematic presentation of all these external institutions so that there is no overlap as possible here, but I will say that in comments per article. And secondly, something a fellow Judge called getting himself into the head. Another change that is very important, which must happen is some kind of change in the mental structure of each of us. I disagree with counterpart Kovacevic who said so wait for whoever graduates the lawyer now we have to get something back to school. If we look at job competitions, I mean, the issue of formal diploma is becoming more and more irrelevant in some way. And people are looking for a degree in these more modern competitions but more as a guarantee of the ability to continue learning, not as the skills and skills needed to do a job. So it seems to me that this share of formal papers and documents will, of course, always be, but it's becoming less and less important, but it's much more important to work precisely on the adoption of and one culture of learning and knowledge culture because I think without it there's nothing. What has not been here so far in the debate is said and the law calls for certain international documents. I will dare and say even some international movements relating to lifelong learning and adult education but the basis for this law is nevertheless in our documents. In 2004, the government adopted an adult education strategy and an Action Plan for the implementation of the adult education strategy. Those books look great to me when I read them. The contents inside are absolutely acceptable to me but then there is always one of our Croatian but. And it's a big one, but it says that, which is no longer even doubting that some things will not be carried out, but based on a large number of examples and a great deal of infidelity. And the absolute mistrust that the implementation of legal solutions ideas that basically are good will be complete and will have your prerogative tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or in the years to come. Why am I saying that? In this Action Plan adopted in 2004, for example, it was envisaged to adopt this law in January 2005. We are now at the end of June 2006 and by respecting the parliamentary procedure and all the rest of this law we will not have until the last quarter of 2006. So we've been here for two years at a time. For example, the Action Plan implies that statistical monitoring of adult education will be done, which is a very important topic that is not available at all because we are somehow lost in all this data, which says it will be the making of instruments and everything. March 2005 I don't think so. Then among other things, we say the establishment of info points to promote adult learning, no. Or there's somewhere in the mere universities in that very, many-hole network in all these adult education institutions. However, at one level that would be acceptable and accessible to the Croatian population in need of education. Even for those of us who deal with this rope, this is relatively well - known. I mean, it's just something that didn't come to life. And what may in some ways hurt me the most because, as far as this job is concerned, the MP here says a measure of tax relief in the function of greater availability and stimulated adult education. We've talked about this before. Where, on the one hand, we have it written in the action plan of the Ministry or Government, where, less than a month ago, we in the Assembly, with great opposition from all of us in the opposition, are abolishing but absolutely all tax reliefs offered primarily now by this Law on profit tax on the education of their employees and everything else, while all proposals by the representatives who went towards introducing tax reliefs on the application of an annual income tax application will be... rejected as something unnecessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's been a lot of examples so far. The EU Fund question. The question of money lying in the European Union for the purpose of adult education is one big one, we just need to have projects and literally take that money. This is something we also use in Croatia insufficiently. Since time comes to an end, only a few concrete remarks. Article 2(2), first subparagraph A lifetime of professional guidance. I mean stupid constant. Professional orientation is while it's working. When you retire, then there's no guidance, so it's not life-long, and you just change it a little bit. Article 10 concerning these establishment of the employment relations of Andragogian employees. That's what I think we agreed to. That's where I agree with the remarks. I think it's accepted by the motionary. For professional training of Andragogian employees. I agree, but who's going to do it? Today, we do not have any quality institutions or higher education that would do so. If we might commit these pedagogues, teaching colleges, academias that deal with the need to introduce this college to strengthen this education itself. Articles 19 and 20, I agree that this leave must be paid. The question of contractual obligations between the employer and workers on how to arrange that he 5 or 10 years or I don't know how long he stays working for that employer to avoid objecting that he is training for another employer I think he... But it's got to be a paid leave for a worker and I think it's bad that one way or another, and then it won't be paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I also agree that it goes for seven days so whatever employers think about it. And the last. Indeed these activities, the activities of the Agency should, regardless of the regulation which has been adopted in more detail. You already have some collegiations with both the Andragogical Centre and the Institute of Education and with some other institutions here in college, and there needs another or two articles that would be more detailed, regardless of the regulations which are functions and which are tasks themselves, the very Agency for adult education especially on the question that this law does not touch at all. This is a question of certification or accreditation of certain things that are the key to the quality of adult education alone, and I would also introduce the law and the management of educational statistics. Here I am. I support the law. I hope that these remarks of the law will be better than it was written in the first reading, but this, this is a necessary step towards that, adoption of that... paradigms in some way it is a necessary step but not enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Much, much more than the law is needed and law making is actually the easiest thing and we'll all agree there but it's still just a letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68141	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Joseph Leko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. The first impression that it has caused me to propose that it is not a law that requires alignment with the European Union's gains. It's the law for us. I draw from this that the European Union does not care how much we will train our citizens, workers in competition on the European Union market. That's our concern. For this reason, I think that if we want to change the situation of our colleagues here, both club representatives and individual representatives, then we must be aware of our ignorance, ignorance and my might say inferiority in the labour market and skills in the European Union. If we're aware of that, then we can go towards change. If we are not aware of this then the European Union will find us unprepared and this unpreparedness will be paid by our workers in competition with workers in the countries of the European Union. So this law does not allow, it does not give us a chance to train our citizens not to be in the European Union drivers, chefs and waiters. Is it possible to achieve what we want with this bill? I don't think so. Why not? Well, I'm not much of a knowledgeer of education systems, but I'd like to know from this, can adult, adulthood achieve the high level of professional preparation or specific and special knowledge needed today? Is it possible, in the education of older people, to achieve such an education of specialist knowledge or high expertise that we raise the educational structure of our citizens now and immediately? And that means within five years. If, if we are conscious of our position, we must make it possible, we must make it possible. Not to train citizens to be drivers, waiters and chefs in the European Union. So, the discrepancy is between the declared wishes in this law, and I support them as wishes, is a discrepancy between the declared desires and objectives and the normative solutions offered by this law. Of course, I do not object either to the education of older people as it is intended for life or life-long learning that can be as the legislator here, the proposer says formally and informally. But if education is in Croatian, it is immediately understood that it will obtain a certificate of education, a testimony or a diploma. If it is informal, informal learning and education how here the law often interferes, if it is informal, then it is learning and can be confirmed either in practice or in the test in, at the workplace. And in particular, I only object to the physical insertion of the term "informal." I'm not exactly gonna say I'm an average educated man, so informally and informally maybe there's a difference in the countries where it's used, where these are original languages, where it's native language. But to enter the term informally, informally, we can of course not decide from it, but it's rape language, no matter what the linguistics think. The law does not critically, without taking into account the consequences of Article 19, introduces a new legal concept of educational leave. The legal concept of educational leave is not just a form and a name, it carries behind it the contents and consequences of economic, legal and perhaps entrepreneurial. Because one percent of people who want to use leave for education, whatever they call it, can appear at the same time in a company. So all the consequences that have such a notion of relationships in reality, in reality must be considered. On what basis has the bill been made? Based on good wishes. Why do I say that? Well, because Croatia has really not adopted a development strategy, society as a whole, so we can say that we need in Dalmatia in the next period another 10,000 waiters, maids or experts in foreign languages. That's what we can simply say to us it seems. And whether Croatia will go into this development or we will need 5,000 experts for small farmers, fruit farmers, I don't know what or will we need a number of specific knowledge experts to participate in the production of parts for aircraft, airbus. Either we produce some parts for the chemical industry, a professional of course chemical industry, or we simply produce experts in the chemical industry. We don't know that. And we're going to kick money in, so as we have today, we're going to have a significant number of people looking for a job, and we're going to be happy to work, but there's nowhere to work because there's no proper, professional, no school, no prep, no program, not even a society at all. There aren't enough quality programs. I believe there's more money than the program. I believe there's more money than the program. What is the government's attitude towards the parliament, according to the parliament and legal behaviour shown here by the minister, the secretary of state says the government has already established an education agency. It simply says that I could say it harshly, but I will not say it harshly, but it speaks of the government's relationship to the Croatian Parliament as the only legislative body in this country. Without law, without establishing policy through law, they set up an Supplementary Education Agency. Such a relationship is simply unbearable, not because of us here in the Croatian Parliament, but because of the citizens we represent. At least let's keep the form and address the representatives of the citizens and let's say we think we should set up an agency and start it. At least give us a Bianca's license. So, to go back to trying to raise and enable the rise of the educational structure, to so harshly say the ability of citizens of the Republic of Croatia to go better in the European Union market, in conflict with workers of other countries, "conflict" under alleged signs. Maybe it's too late now to make such a policy. I therefore advocate that this law, as a good idea, has changed, we separate it from what we can do in 3, 4, 5 years to raise the educational structure of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and even more, high schools of specialist knowledge, and what we can do to make citizens can themselves into so-called. teach yourself life or life or permanent education. It would be raising the general culture, the material skills of citizens that at least anyone can buy a newspaper, look at the Internet. All of these courses would help the general education of citizens and allow for better implementation within the framework of the European Union. And we will enter the European Union whether we want it or not, we are simply in this geographical position. That's why I support the idea, but not the solution offered by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68143	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact is that this Law has certainly brought us into the situation, but as a result of the 2001 census, when we found that Croatia does not really rest as a knowledge society, because, in the light of this Law, we see that through the assessment of the situation and when we see how many citizens of Croatia have some professional preparation that the data is alarming and that is why I think that I share the thoughts of all those who are and who support the adoption of this Law, but like my colleagues Lek and I have a series of objections to this Act because it seems to me from a round table which is the Council for the Education of the SDP of the Varazdin County kept on account of this Act what is a thin thread that this before the Law on Open Schools of Education of Adults. That's what a series of articles are talking about, and I'm going to say the critical remarks that were made on this round table. First of all, we have today that in the system function as a form of adult education, but from small legs to adults it's foreign language schools, we have IT schools. These are schools that do not operate this class as institutions under the Law on Institutions, but we have allowed companies dealing with this business to be established over the years. Now all of a sudden they have to reregister. I would point out that a good part of foreign language schools in Croatia has certain international accreditations, including Croatian accreditations, and they are put outside the law in this way, i.e. becoming illegal, they are certainly becoming a transitional period in which they must adapt. However, what is much worse in this institution or according to the Law on Institutions must act and do non-profits. If someone started a company and founded it to teach information, to teach at a foreign - language school and to act as a company, he is currently acting on a profitable basis. I'd like to hear too much explanation, and apparently, in government coordination, you haven't thought enough about it, and you've been careful how a private institution that privates are setting up is going to make a profit out of it? That's pretty weird, I'd like to hear some of the explanations you have. In addition, it would be perfectly normal for me to, accordingly, if it is already going to the institutions to define this Law in which way we will have quality teaching, because it is absolutely certain that all schools and institutions must meet the spatial and humane conditions. That's very often not the case. You have a large number of popular open schools that operate both in elementary schools and in part of certain counties that do not work and do not operate within the framework of having good, some personnel often, and even less spatial conditions. So will local self-government units be put to finance their work and action, will they find extra money for it? And I note and re-apply here to Article 26 where all the founders are spoken, and here they talk about the budgets of units of local and regional self-government which they do if the founders of such institutions are in any case the most common open universities that they all have to finance. In the Varazdin County area, I'd like to hear it's different somewhere. A good part of the cities with which the headquarters of the mere open universities is minimal but truly minimally funded by the work of the mere open universities. There is a need for education, but when it comes to funding, it is insufficient and inadequate. We again make commitments to local and regional self-government, and by not decentralisation, and by financial decentralisation, we ensure that they also have money. There were already predecessors who talked about both firefighters and these and those, and every time we completely uncritically pass the law, and we don't ensure that money can be implemented. I'd like to read somewhere what the finance ministry says about this, but the finance ministry doesn't say anything. It is said that money will be provided in the state budget and for this year approximately 6 million and 900 thousand kuna, but I ask you who will make it possible for units of local self-government, because at these times with the City of Zagreb only cities and this little larger one have open universities. I'm also asking a question as a dilemma. In the area of a mere open school, because it is mostly related to them it acts not only, let’s say. in the Varazdin County, one thing works in Varazdin for the City of Varazdin, but also for the former municipalities, i.e. the newly established municipalities of the former Municipality of Varazdin. In what way will these municipalities finance the work of the open school regiments? I'm afraid not, because a good part of them doesn't have enough money to survive anyway, let alone some extra funding, and certainly there's a need for the one from Sracanc or the Tossica to educate his entire life as well as the one who lives in the City of Varazdin, so I'd like to have a more quality and clearer way of dealing with it. What is said on this round table is that it should be said to be prepared, because it is reported that in the talks held by a group of foreign language schools in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce with the Ministry and the Government it was promised that there would be either a special law on foreign language schools and IT schools, however, since there is no way to prepare it because in this way we have something that works legally, that comes in the sphere of illegal, and they also consider themselves to have a special quality to address programmes and should have uniform programmes throughout Croatia from all interests not only foreign language schools. The school of information, schooling for certain professions is an example given or said that for one, for accounting, for example you have courses that last 100 hours and 300 hours. It seems to me, and I conclude that the people who discussed it do know what it's about to have a uniform program, a uniform captain and a definition of the personnel who can do it. As the question arises, it is already said in the debate that if they have to work in accordance with the Labour Act, we will have interests, and the market requires that they react very quickly for which we will not simply be able to find the people who will do it. In addition, there are factories in the area of Varazdin County, companies looking for a wider circle of their workers' education, and then there are problems with the teaching group of subjects that those who should teach in such schools do not have. I ask myself whether in 20 hours of teaching a year, which is an engineer or someone who is some other profession, and who can teach very well, who will go to the qualification and himself and finish that pedagogical class of things? A very small number of people like that. And on the other hand, how to achieve the unique criteria in Croatia of testing, not only should it be that one who pays has to finish but that when it is finished or eventually something is entered into his work book that some knowledge is behind it. Therefore, it is certain that there should be something more in this law about the programmes, the coherence of the programme, the compliance of the captain but also the way of the final exam. They come up with the idea of people who do this and in Varazdin there are private secondary schools for adult education who feel that they should also have for this kind of interest the catalogue of knowledge, namely, joint exams that can then go from one school to another because it is also a way to gain unique quality but are also afraid of people that in this way with this law there is a possibility of creating monopolies because in some way only open universities or something else. In addition, representatives of the Employment Service said that unfortunately, the awareness of people in Croatia is at present extremely low, and despite the offers and offers from the Employment Service, which today is the most potent and gives money for adult education, there is still not enough affinity for people to go to such a thing. Therefore, support the law-making yes, I will make some written remarks. However, it means to check the quality system, make sure there is no monopoly, to be careful as well so that the clocks and programs are uniform, and thus we can get to quality. Because if we have a law that can't be implemented and if it's about open-air public universities, it certainly won't see a glorious end because this law will impose obligations on local self-government, we haven't provided money, and it seems to me that it shouldn't be a goal, the goal should be to make it possible for everyone to study, and I'm afraid that by the second reading, you'll give an improvement to this legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68145	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68146	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! This law is relatively short, so my debate won't be too long either. The fact is that the concept of permanent employment is almost completely lost today and is replaced by the notion of permanent employability, and it is realized by lasting learning, or lifelong education. In order for employees and especially unemployed to find employment and be competitive in the labour market, they will have to constantly adopt new skills and new skills throughout the working life. It is obvious, then, that schooling no longer ends with the graduation of high school or college. In Croatia, the restructuring of the economy, the transition from the planning to the market economy, is particularly necessary for the retraining of both employees and unemployed and the additional education of adults in order to retain employment. In this context, the defence population is particularly prominent with its specific needs. We have various adult education programmes, but there are still insufficiently represented new organisational forms and methods that allow the development of computer technology, and traditional teaching methods continue to prevail. So it happens that students learn knowledge and skills that employers don't actually need and at courses that they pay dearly for themselves. This is because adult education is not treated as a special educational subsystem with its institutions and programming, organisational and technological specificities. There is a particular problem with the non-compliance of the education system and the need for the labour market, so it is obvious that unemployment is not only a result of job shortages but also of structural nature. While on the one hand there is a surplus of educational people whose qualifications are not needs on the other hand, there is a shortage of people of certain other qualifications. Of course, the general lack of jobs in the Republic of Croatia cannot be attributed to this problem alone. The question arises to what extent the Government, Parliament or this law can help Croatian citizens in their efforts to find and retain employment and provide them with accessible additional education. I would refer only to some specific provisions of this proposal. The provisions of Articles 19 and 20 leave the possibility of an unequal position for all students of adult education for two reasons. First, because an employer has to agree with the employer on educational leave, the question is what will happen if such an agreement does not occur, or if the employer has no understanding of the needs of its worker, which will be the case of private companies. Second, because educational leave can be achieved with or without pay. It is again to be expected that a privateer, except that he will rarely tolerate the absence of workers from work, will find it even more difficult to pay for the absence than, for example, public or state-owned companies that stimulate workers to further improve. I consider further extremely important Articles 25, 26, 27 and 28 governing the financing of adult education, i.e. the provision of funding in the state budget and the budget of local self-government for adult education institutions. If this law really wants to ensure equal availability of education for adults and on equal terms, it would be desirable for programmes to be financed in thirds by state, local self-government and participants, or their employers, if they are employed. However, since the proposal does not show who will participate with what means, in which proportion and under what conditions is worried that most of the costs will be re-sumed on the back of the participants themselves, which, given the cost of education ultimately detimises them to even apply. I'm not saying that for no reason. For example, some programs at the mere universities cost several thousand kunas, which is difficult to afford, especially an unemployed person. And since the most expensive programmes are also those that provide the highest possibility of employment, I believe that both state and local self-government have an interest in helping students. In the end, I'd like to look back on adult education in the female population. Statistics show that in the categories of the weakest educated majority of women. It's a similar situation for unemployed people where the share of women is about 1 and a half times compared to the number of unemployed men. Already mentioned a descriptive project conducted by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports did not significantly motivate illiterate people to engage in it or to finish at least primary school. And of that relatively small number y are men. The Ministry should therefore make greater efforts to implement the project and include all the county offices of the state administration in order to get as good effects as possible. And to conclude: I support the adoption of this very important law but I hope that these remarks from today's debate will indeed be incorporated into the Final Proposal of the Law in order to bring this defeated statistics of almost 20% of the population with an unfinished primary school to the minimum possible extent and to raise the entire level of education of the nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68147	Thank you. The word has been respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68148	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will immediately declare that I will support the first reading of this bill because it is better than almost nothing. We can't say anything but almost nothing because what we now have in formal, primary and secondary education as the possibility of adult education is actually completely insufficient. However, the other reason why I will support this bill is also because of the discussions that have taken place so far. The whole series of debates on behalf of clubs and individual representatives have been streamlining so that they are practically very specific examples, and in such a situation I am quite sure that the proposer will have plenty of room to prepare a quality and good law to fully settle this issue. Allow, however, a few principled remarks that I would like to make, which I would like to point out regarding this Bill proposal and then a few individually. First of all, I believe that there should be talks within the Economic and Social Council, together with representatives of the Trade Unions and employers on this law, because some issues that the law opens as an adult education for the sake of new employment or for retraining and for the restructuring of companies or for the implementation of the law are actually very important issues and in the social programme to address the problem of unemployment in the Republic of Croatia and they are not fully agreed and it would be good to do so without a tripartite system of talks and agreements. Secondly, the law should also be further aligned with our own 2004 adult education strategy because there are some issues that the law has mentioned but it has not worked out. It should then be brought into line with the modern technical and technological needs of work, and in particular with the new world of division of work carried by modern technology and modern science on our occasions and in relation to our involvement in the European Union. In this regard, allow me to make one principled and concrete remark immediately. One of the weakest points of this bill is among other things, which has not worked out the actual issue of financing adult education and education. Because... Doesn't mean it's just in principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let me ask you a question, here is a fine explanation of: the Slovenian model, the Hungarian model. Perhaps the Hungarian model is closest to us. But then, in agreement with the other restoring ministry, the Ministry of Finance should see through the tax system how to encourage adult education and education and on the other hand how to free other burdens of education and education. And third, you should see from which sources to lower funds to local self-government units when they co-finance the issue of adult education and education. The more the issue is not only educational and educational but also social, because at the same time it solves the issue of actually creating a prerequisite for the employment of unemployed citizens in their area. Of course, when this aspect is viewed, it is also necessary to see this fine distinction between informal and informative education. Do you know when you sit at home and educate yourself there is no clear question at all whether or not you can get help there? From state, from local self-government unit to institution and so on. And in any case, every education is very expensive. Not only does it require not only good will and much patience and desire to learn and master certain matter but it also requires a lot of resources and, in such a situation, it should certainly consider how to help? But let me not accidentally escape the most important thing that I would like to open is the question of education for people in the world of work. Those which become a technical and technological surplus and in case of restructuring of economic systems should open up the possibility of them being requalified, requalified. So they acquire new skills and new knowledge and thus increase their abilities as well as the law itself provides. But then there's a few things to open. (a) The first question should be raised when and in what cases, in agreement with employers and trade unions, the employer is obliged to finance such education as a measure of overwork resolution or technical and technological processes. The second thing that is important is not only the problem that Lek has already mentioned the rights to the educational leave of workers as a new form of leave. But here now you need to see when you have to have partial leave paid, and when you complete leave to be able to have so by law enforcement. And the third question is when a willing worker does it alone is then it's a question when he can get the days off and he doesn't have to get paid. But those are questions, you should definitely work it out. In this context, it is important to open another dimension. It's a question of what is wrong with the unemployed who need to be requalified, qualified and what is the interest, the social interest of the state and the local community to make these people get certain calls and occupations that are needed by the market and the world of work so that they can actually get a job. There's a few things to open up here. ( a) First, with the social assistance received by such people, unemployed, these are usually household members sometimes fosterers. In order to enable them to receive additional credits that they need to repay and at the same time free of charge education, i.e. pardon not for free education but for schooling on loans that will partly depend on their success in schooling after the course of adult education. Of course, here you should make sure that it is at least twice the amount of credit you need to pay back from the one you need to finish school. I argue that a large number of people who are on the labour market today and who, among other things, do not have adequate qualifications, knowledge or skills will, in fact, definitely approach education and education in such situations and desire education. Many of them want to requalify, prequalify, acquire new knowledge and experience but don't actually have opportunities. And we have to take care of it because it's actually that man who doesn't work. That's what I wanted to point out in particular that no, that it wouldn't happen to me if I didn't forget it, forget it. The second thing I would like to mention in particular here is the question of Article 15 concerning Article 4. You know, Article 4 says there can be schools, high and high, schools, institutions, accommodation and care, and so on. So here it is being decided but Article 15 states that the state, local self-government units and other legal and physical persons can establish an institution. It is not in the world of education for the needs of adult markets, but we have companies. Therefore, I have to say that here it needs to be completely separated and this needs to be worked out when institutions have to be established, and when companies can be founded. In any case, when it comes to co-financing by the state, 50% and more of the activities of such education for older or local communities, then it must be constitutional and cannot have... activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when it comes to the possibility that it is paid on the labour market and on normal education, then it can be a commercial society, but then it is paid by individuals at economic prices and of course the state can also units of local self-government help, but there is no obligation. And that question needs to be elaborated in particular, it needs to be brought all the way to the end. In this context, in particular, another important issue needs to be developed. It is mentioned and rightly said that this is a public service. However, this must determine the public authorities of the public service which it is carrying out. Now, that's not worked out. These public powers must be counted which, by force of the law, are exercised as public powers, including the public correction acquired by the learner when it comes to it. This should be counted and, of course, it should be additionally counted so that some other laws and regulations can be given into the activities of these institutions or companies and other public powers relating to the training and education of adults. Because here, you know, there may be cases where at the same time a man starts a form of adult education and then notices that he has the right ability where he can be instructed by a teacher, professor, coach, etc. to the additional part of the direction that it can practically acquire and some others call parallel to this education and education that it needs to enable it to acquire. Of course, that question needs to be brought into line with the Constitution. Because Article 24 states, among other things, that the Agency, is the institution for monitoring and developing the system of adult education in the Republic of Croatia, the Government will establish an agency by regulation. I'd like to remind you that in Article 116. The constitution states clearly that this must be hit by law when it comes to the establishment of a single body or administrative organisation with public authority, then it is done by law. Therefore, this law should be said by the existing agency, so it will do so, that, and all other issues in the process will be regulated by the Government by a special regulation. Of course, here you should point out in article 25 when you say, "who have completed only school-based and other education programs.". What's that? What other education programs other than primary school and high school are there with us? Now, if it wants to, then it has to continue in brackets of individual courses, some I don't know courses, etc., but then it has to be indicated that it has to be some body that will have to verify it. Because if it isn't done in institutions or companies that normally educate for the needs of the adult world. And of course around these competitions, through a public tender I fully imitate. And I must warn that Article 29 states that administrative oversight under this law will be carried out by the ministry, in a small letter. That means not the Ministry of Education and Education. Or rather, it means the Ministry of Education and Education or anything else. The question arises to determine, however, the ministry which... that he's doing it so he can work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry that I still have a few minor remarks, that I haven't been able to tell them, but that's going to be an opportunity for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68149	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed promoters, as well as the predecessors, I would first like to stress that I support your proposal and that I absolutely think that it is welcome. In fact, adult education is a very important part of the education system based on the concept of lifelong learning. However, in the Republic of Croatia, this part of education policy has been very long and systematically negligible, if not in practice, surely in politics itself and in a strategy that has led to voluntary development and insufficient programming. Although there is a certain tradition of adult education in the Republic of Croatia, it is implemented through an incoherent approach in which there is no systematic infrastructure building, particularly in terms of software, spatial, financial and other assumptions. Not to mention the shortcomings in the evaluation and the monitoring system and everything else that goes with it. Some of the present trends that can be assessed as positive are largely reduced to informal transfer of knowledge, of which users do not benefit too much. Because serious employers are still looking for written and certified certificates of certain knowledge, documents, diplomas and so forth. The lack of higher educational institutions, such as universities and universities, is also visible in an attempt to systematically build an adult education system. The adoption of this law should primarily recognise adult education as an equally important and integral part of the education system of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the development of measures to organise such conditions that will enable access to lifelong learning to absolutely all. In society, there is a need to develop conscious integration of work and learning as education and work take place at the same time today, unlike the prevailing opinion. According to the latest data on education, and we already had the opportunity to hear this today and on several occasions quite similar data, in the educational structure of the active population of Croatia uneducated persons who have no education more than 37.5% of primary school, which speaks of a certain... the education of the population in the last 15 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With such education, however, Croatia has yet to reach its lower limit of education for the countries of the European Union and for advanced transition countries. At the same time, 15% of the adult population in us have neither completed nor completed primary school. It can be concluded from this data that there is a great need for education in Croatia of the very adult group. A particular problem is the non-compliance of education production and labour market needs, which potentiates unemployment problems. Unemployment is not only a result of job cuts but also of structural nature. While on the one hand there is a surplus of educated people whose qualifications no one needs, on the other hand there is a lack of people of certain qualifications. It is also a visible need for adult education, but with another function, which I will talk about later. It should also draw attention to Croatia's position compared to other countries, as regards adult involvement in lifelong learning. In 2003, Croatia had 2.1% of the population involved in lifelong learning, while the figure in 2002 was a miserable 1.5%. On the other hand, one small country in our neighborhood, whose account we all like to make a good joke, but it actually needs to be admired, namely, Slovenia also had a 9.1%) of the population involved in lifelong learning at the same time in 2002, and in 2003, even 15.1%. Only for comparison, the same data, as regards the 15 most developed European Union countries, speak of 8% in 2002 and 9.7% in 2003. While they're making fun of each other, it seems like they'd rather do something. The adoption of this Law should certainly be welcomed because it will allow a higher level of education throughout the population by encouraging the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, but also by raising both the level of democracy and civil society that I believe we all want to advocate. However, it should be borne in mind that the acceptance of the concept of lifelong learning as the basis of the National Strategy for the Development of Education and Education, and I believe that this concept really needs to be fundamental, is a receptualisation of all segments of education and thus adult education. Lifelong education does not consist of a mechanical extension of education and education during adulthood rather than a systematic development of education for children, young people and adults. Only in this way is the possible discharge in education of children and young people and the rationalisation of education systems as a whole. Adult education has two main tasks, i.e. functions to be paid attention to when adopting this Act. These are the compensatory function and function of further permanent education and education. The compensatory function of adult education consists of basic training of adults, i.e. In making up for the educational gaps of youth, if that's what we can say. The follow-up function consists of continuous training to successfully adapt to the ever faster changes that arise in the content of the basic life roles of every human being. These changes in the developmental light are so rapid and inclusive that one of the fundamental roles of life has become the role of man as a permanent student. The notion of permanent employment gradually disappears and is replaced by the notion of permanent employability which can only be achieved by continuous learning. The education of adults in transition countries has, in addition to the objectives characteristic for countries that are constantly developing and other additional specific objectives stemming from the need for development continuity. Post-Communist countries must also implement structural social changes under relatively unfavourable conditions. In addition to having to carry out the economic transition from the planning to the market economy, they must develop civil society institutions and modernise the value system of the working population. Such major social changes can only be made if the whole adult population learns, the simplest thing. A large part of them, their education is conducted by self-educated and self-preservation, informal learning of new values of attitudes and habits, i.e. by learning through practice, but many educational and educational needs cannot be met without organised informal and formal education and education. In Croatia are present and... more pronounced and some needs for which it differs from other transition countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purpose of restructuring the economy, in particular, the need for retraining for the unemployed is expressed in view of the extremely high unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia and the additional education of adults in order to retain employment. Construction of an inclusive society that would exclude as few unemployed young and adult as possible and socially marginalise the impossible without a strong and accessible adult education. In this context, the specific needs of the defense population are highlighted. The transition to a market economy, i.e. exits to the world market, strengthens the problem of basic training and permanent education of managers. In the former state, handling should not have been professionalized, today is exactly the other way around. The development of a particular area of national concern in which the consequences of war are most difficult will need to be driven by intensive development of human resources, i.e. by training the population to achieve specific development projects. As a result of the war, the need for social and reintegration of certain parts of the population is even more stressed and special attention will be paid to peace education and education and training of the population for the development of civil society. Croatia's approximation of the European Union assumes the preparation of an adult population for behaviour towards European standards. This is achieved not only by implementing a European educational policy net and systematic information about what the European Union actually is about to improve the understanding of the way of life in it and the requirements to be met for the successful action of Croatia in the European context. To join the Union, it is not enough to harmonise the laws and set up appropriate institutions but should be properly trained and become a new European for life ready in the European Union, that is, Europe. All this shows an exceptional need for systematic development of adult education and concepts of lifelong learning. I therefore believe that this law is necessary for the Republic of Croatia, but when it is adopted, it is necessary to pay attention to the problems that I have raised and to enable this law to be fulfilled, which is to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and nothing less important to build a modern self-aware and modern civil society. To achieve such a thing will take a lot of effort, money, but both will pay off.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68151	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. We're moving to agenda two. ... Excuse me, final secretary of state. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68152	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. One thing's for sure. They are all complex in assessing that we need this law, that it can be a good basis for making our economy more competitive as our ultimate goal is. I therefore help you all who participated in the debate and helped your colleagues to articulate what they wanted and those who did not participate I want to thank you most sincerely. At the time of this summer break, we will consider all your proposals, hopefully a large number of these proposals and install into another reading and come up with a good final draft of the law, and of course if we need more amendments when we bring one really good solution, of course, without having the illusion that it will be a final solution for many years ahead of us rather than that we will have to build and adapt it to the needs and labour markets, and also to the education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68153	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68154	Proposal for a law on adult education. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on adult education is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68155	We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – 2. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Korea on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 506 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the proposal by mail pursuant to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The committee's reporters? I'm opening a debate. No hearings have been filed. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68156	Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Korea on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention... Income tax payments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes in favour and one abstention accepted proposed bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68157	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. 3. Final proposal of the Blood and Blood Products Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 366 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When this law is passed... The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the laws of Articles 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Health Minister Dr. Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, here are a few words why this law and perhaps a little reference to transfusion medicine in Croatia, which I think is extremely important to see why we are doing this law and what is actually a basic intensity. In general, transfusion medicine began to develop in the early 20th century practically with the discovery of A,B and O blood groups. The first transfusion in Croatia in 1923. At the time, and believe me, in 923, we pulled out this law, and Croatia then had a law on transfusion medicine, and in fact there was talk of a Law on Blood Treatment. And here's the sad part that we don't actually have it today. The first action of voluntary blood donation was 1953, and here is only one information that the record number of doses collected in Croatia was practically during the "Storm" 190 thousand in one day, and that is absolutely one, so I would dare say actually from record numbers even per capita in a country and I must admit that this is the information that transfusion medicine in Croatia has clearly proved and proved, and the Red Cross as part of this transfusion medicine. In fact, what I would like to say is that in the Republic of Croatia blood donation is voluntary or free and these are the basic two principles of which we are not and will not give up. However, here is when we have already mentioned actually the Red Cross what is important to say and that is that there is no accurate registry of the number of donors in all of Croatia and that is what is one of the items where we cannot exactly. Now, I don't know how many, maybe three weeks ago I signed a motion for medals for those who gave more than a hundred times by saying that the absolutely certain list that we delivered isn't appropriate because we certainly have in certain checkpoints of people who've given more than a hundred times but we don't have them on record. And that's one of the elements that also requires that these things are regulated legally, that one register be established, so one central place with a register is established. The other thing is that throughout Croatia we have small hospital transfusion units. That's nice. It's nice when every hospital has the ability to take blood, when every hospital has the ability to process blood but the question is whether in such small systems we can satisfy the principle of quality, whether we can meet all the conditions imposed in accordance with good manufacturing practice. And one information that may seem frightening to you but what is a fact that when the unwanted effect of blood that is therefore collected in such a small transfusion unit is impossible to withdraw from the series that was created there. Why? Because there's no practically united tracking system. And this is an absolute piece of information, so it's talking about the contribution that some things have to be regulated. And one more thing. The documentation conducted in transfusion medical units is not identical. Namely, it does not allow for the traceability of what I have said that any amount of blood by its number can be monitored and, of course, supervision. And that's what I repeat the more reason to practically regulate all this together by law. What are the basic issues that this law addresses? These are mainly measures and activities in the field of planning, collection, production, testing, storage and distribution of blood products. Of course, it's all based on the principles of self-sufficiency. What does that really mean? Croatia has clearly defined that we do not want to have products imported from abroad. I think in our voluntary blood donation organization, and that's what history has shown in the moments of the Homeland War when we needed the highest amount of blood we could have provided. And precisely because of such a high-quality and good network, therefore, the system of voluntary blood donation and the system of self-sufficiency will not give up on such a model. However, the fact that other things are actually important and should be solved and this is a system of authorized health care institutions, precisely to suppress these small hospital units, in order to create a good and quality system, authorized units must be introduced, systems that will therefore be in hospitals, large systems that will, of course, deal with both planning and collecting, testing, production, storage, distribution and exportation of blood products and such systems will be able to follow any practically blood bag. So when we have any blood product he'll be clearly marked. At any moment we know who got it, where that show ended and we can pull it back. It is not possible at this moment in one large, sad part of the small transfusion units. What is significant is that for the first time and defines practical information as the basis. Information is something that today is reality. There are several information systems in Europe that work very well for the transfusion system. I must admit, Croatia has not had a regulation so far to establish such information and it works at a very, very small level. In other words, it works exclusively on the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine system. Such information will allow, as I said, monitoring and, of course, observing unwanted effects. In this context, there were actually proposals and on committees to monitor the adverse effects of the Agency. 4.5 million people, the number of actual doses of blood and blood derivatives that we actually produce automatically annually, and the number of unwanted effects is absolutely not enough to justify the existence of the agency. And that is why we have decided on one system, and we have received in some way a confirmation from the European Commission, and that is to do that, that the application by the occurrence of therefore unwanted effects works at the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine, but that we also have a parallel check within the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare itself. That way, with such a single parallel system, we can de facto replace the agency. Why not the agency? So I think at this point as I said both the quantum dose and the number of side effects a year wouldn't justify such an expensive step as the agency and, of course, it would be very difficult to provide a sufficient number of professional, quality people who would do it. And finally, I am quite sure here you will support this law because what we wanted by law and I think we have achieved, which is that we have fully complied with the directives of the European Parliament of the Council of Europe where we set clear standards of quality, safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68159	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Dear representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68160	... Vice President, Your Honor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Health at the 55th session held on 5 June 2006 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Blood and Blood Products submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 25 May 2006. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In a brief discussion, it was noted that most of the remarks made in the parliamentary debate in the first reading of the law were respected. Thus, the name of the law and, in accordance with the observations made by this Committee, Articles 5 and 6 relating to a network of transfusion activities are in line with the provisions of the Health Protection Act. After the discussion, the members of the Committee decided, with 2 votes, to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Blood and Blood Preparations in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68161	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68162	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The final text of the proposal for a law on blood products, blood and blood products is here, and I would say immediately that after the debate in the first reading, there is an important proposal that was more or less supported by all to place blood in the title of this bill, rather than as it was blood preparations. Because that is also in line with the European Union directives. Mr. Minister himself explained the importance of adopting this Law because he mentioned that in 1923, when we were first transfused by the then doctoral society, an act called the Law on the Treatment of Blood and hence, and after so many years, so 150 years since the first transfusion, we have now come into the situation that we must introduce one legal certainty and into this area of treatment which is extremely important and which is actually based on the principles of solidarity and freeness. The free that was introduced in 1953. Until then, blood donation was charged, or the one who gave blood was compensated. So on this principle of freeness and solidarity, the necessary blood doses in Croatia are planned not to be taken too much because blood is too valuable to be taken and then thrown into the sewer. About 150 thousand doses of blood are needed for Croatian needs, but it is important to note, annually, something that is important and why this law in fact treats this in some way by introducing a system of authorised health institutions. Today in Croatia, we have 21 institutions that collect blood. Of these 21 institutions, we have one called the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine, which has been a reference centre so far. It is the largest and strongest and roof facility for transfusion medicine. If we compare these figures on the annual need for blood doses of these 150 thousand approximately a dose of this single dose of blood, 4 to 5 blood preparations can be made. And only the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine can make more of these preparations and it has an efficiency index 2.6. The average of Croatia 2.3, and what the minister mentioned was the fragmentation of many small transfusion units in hospitals cannot adequately monitor this particular new knowledge, testing because it is now a matter of eliminating unwanted donors. So we must have markers or marks on infectious diseases. They're now working at practically molecule level. It doesn't have every lab, it doesn't have every hospital. And the danger of unwanted blood being taken and that another is enormous. Therefore, the matter must be serious and this safety must be maximum and therefore only those who receive the certificate will be able to deal with it. So it's going to narrow down, but that doesn't mean we don't need both this number of transfusion units and hospitals. The news in this law is that a transfusiologist in hospitals is now no longer just taking care of traffic, I would say blood preparations rather than taking control of blood and blood components and preparations. So he's with doctors who do it most often, they're anesthesiologists and doctors in intensive care units, he's now the one who has to take care of it. It is particularly emphasized here that this principle of traceability of blood must be guaranteed. That's the only way to do it if good information is done. So if one unique register is created and the donor but also harmful events, then side effects and those donors who are unwanted, so those who must not give blood. When we have a unique information system, then it will not be possible for such an unwanted donor to appear anywhere and give blood. Because he's dangerous to a healthy public who comes into a situation that needs to take blood. Therefore, this law in some way strengthens the responsibility of all in the system and I say, this system of authorised health institutions will in some way make security better and efficient, so we go to a network of healthcare institutions that must supply our entire country with the village, our entire country, the availability must be guaranteed. It will therefore go according to the principle of regional centres to give these powers and certificates in those institutions. They're on a five-year deadline. So the check is, quality control is absolutely guaranteed. And this law, I say, should bring the problem of transfusion medicine to the level of the needs of Croatian society, but also fully in line with the global trends and directives of the European Union. That's why this law is well done. The remarks that were in the first reading are appreciated and I think we should accept it. The Croatian Democratic Community club will also fully support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68163	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68164	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. At first, let me also say on behalf of the SDP Club that we will support the proposal, the final proposal of this Blood and Blood Products Act. To the truth, we have proposed 3.4 amendments, which we believe we can only improve the good law further. The problem of collecting blood and blood preparations and making blood preparations from it has been quite well resolved with us, thanks, among other things, to the consistent implementation of all four principles related to blood collection from the issue of volunteering through freeness, anonymity and to the nature of solidarity. In such a situation, it is quite clear that some of the things that have happened in practice in this law should not already pass the time, and also pass this law so that such things do not try to sanction them from happening again. It is not pleasant to talk about, but it must be mentioned that at one point in time, there was a small crisis over the need for blood, not entirely in the Republic of Croatia, but in certain localities, and that there was a situation where we got one answer that caused great revolutions on the ground that possibly because of the lack of treatment required by contemporary rules, the Institute of Transfused Medicine in Zagreb, that there was actually not enough quality of blood in the area of Slavonia, in the area of Dalmatia, which caused great dissatisfaction and great problems in blood collection, and even at one small moment and doubtful question of a large number of volunteers whether they were more responding to such actions at all. Therefore, it would be very good to make sure that, already in Article 4 of this Article, it is provided that when funds are provided for the coordination of blood collection and testing procedures, and production and storage of the distribution of blood products for the achievement of scientific and technological development, however, that this provision is scheduled for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I think that in this respect we have to make sure that we have centres that cover natural and historical, at least natural and historical regions to which other smaller centres will gravity and that these issues are simply solved. Otherwise, activities such as during the storm organized by the Croatian Red Cross in collaboration with the Transfusion Office will no longer be possible if such or repeated cases that began to appear I say a few years ago when it happened here that there is a possible question of the donated, the quality of the donated blood. Also to this reaction, relating to the attempt to play the principle of freeness in some companies where voluntary blood donations, voluntary blood donors' societies, have been established, the idea has begun to actually provide compensation for purchases through the provision of goods and services. You know that as well as I do, and I think that in a situation like this we should certainly recapture some of these amendments, further specify what this is about. And therefore, we believe that the amendment in Article 33 must be added which would practically convey these questions otherwise what the Croatian Red Cross is doing, as mentioned in Article 33(1), that the promotion of blood and blood components in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is carried out by the Croatian Transfusion Institute and the Croatian Red Cross. It would be good to now insert a new item 2 which reads: "The Croatian Red Cross organises and implements actions of voluntary blood donation, popularizes voluntary blood donation, gathers donors, keeps records of them, determines measures for the recognition of voluntary blood donors and grants certificates and recognitions."what he usually does. And it also works in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Red Cross. And then, of course, this paragraph 3 of Article 33 becomes quite logical then that promotional activities should be continued, etc., etc. However, self-organising of citizens in the association can hardly replace the institution, and at the same time any such association enriches and supplements each institution. And it would be good to accept this amendment for a reason that practically what the red cross does to further strengthen on the one hand and on the other hand, that this good link between the Institute for Transfusion and the Croatian Red Cross is strengthened both on the ground and through the roof association. After all, somehow self - donation of blood and the activities of the organization began practically malts not but with a solfer and so on. And that came from the Red Cross and that's why it should be installed. The third thing that should be considered in particular is that we represent the principle of self-sufficiency, when we start to ensure that the needs for blood and blood products should be ensured by voluntary giving of blood to citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, Articles 24 and 25 should provide for the exception as provided for in the case of a major accident and other emergency situations, in order to authorise the import and export of blood. It's okay, but here you should add a/or a humanitarian donation. In fact, humanitarian donations must also pass the procedure as if it were imports or exports when we donate to countries and communities that have hit severe disasters, then they must also pass the procedure. Of course there is no payment, but all paperwork must be harmonised not only for paper but also for the verification of technical regularity, health regularity, etc., etc. We have also prepared this amendment with the aim of trying to obtain an even better law and this amendment, both in Article 24 and in Article 25, because it would actually improve the law itself. There's something else we need to point out. It remains questionable from the aspect of the work of the Croatian Transit Institute, however, it is taking a certain amount of compensation for blood and blood products to what extent it is in line with the Council of Europe's directive, given that this should be free of charge and that this part should ensure, instead of that compensation, that they are incentivising funds from the Ministry of Health, i.e. by the State, as well as units of local self-government. All in all we have to say is that it is a good law, that it is good that this law has finally come to order, it is good to introduce elements of information, only remains a question that should be considered before I conclude, which is Article 30 before any blood or blood components of the person accessing giving must give consent to voluntary blood or blood components. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: It remains very interesting here in fact how to give consent in writing when at the same time we prescribe that the minister will rightly prescribe a form that needs to be filled in and entered in all data. Therefore, there is no agreement in writing but with the signature of donors, and that should be, I did not make an amendment to that fact, but should simply say that the consent is given by signing the donor on a form prescribed by the minister, the rule of law, on a form signed by the minister. I think it would be more right because this is how it's going to happen that, you know, a situation where a simple donor writes a statement he signs and doesn't sign the form... The law states paragraph 2: "Agreement is given in writing.", so you don't have to take the form. ... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] This is Article 30(2), etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there should be repairs, I suggest that the proposer, I have not been able to make an amendment to make my own amendment and to say that consent is given by signing the donors on an appropriate form prescribed by the minister and nothing else. With everything else, it's just fine, and these other questions I think they stay the way they are. It is a shame that additionally this Law could not be extended a little more with certain provisions that are now in the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act on Rights and Privileges as some sort of reward or recognition of blood donors related to the fact that they do not have to pay additionally that insurance and participation when they give a certain number of times of blood because they have actually helped to protect the health of all those who, at some point, needed it. We will repeat once again support this Final Bill proposal, and we propose to the Proposer to accept our amendments because they are heading towards improving the law and its pronunciation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68165	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club, distinguished representative Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68166	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS considered the draft Final Proposal of the Law on Blood and Blood Preparations and supported the adoption of this by our content of a good law which provides good opportunities for the efficient supply of the population of the Republic of Croatia with blood and blood products. It plans the need to treat patients with medicinal products that are produced from human blood, providing conditions for raising public awareness of the need for blood collection and the purpose of medicines produced from blood. This Law provides for the development of a health-information system for the field of transfusion medicine, the development of scientific activities and the education of healthcare professionals from this field of medicine. It also provides a system of authorised health institutions dealing with the planning, collection and testing of blood and production, storage, distribution, or the establishment of a blood register for the whole country and security of data protection. This proposal also regulates the principles of the organization of giving in the Republic of Croatia through volunteering, freeness, anonymity and solidarity, but it must be observed that only 3.8% of people in Croatia donate blood, and in Western European countries this percentage is slightly higher than 5% compared to the population. The motives for voluntary blood donors are mostly humanitarian although they should be stressed that they mean donors have other benefits such as the release from the payment of participation for medicines, for those donors who give blood more than 25 times, and those who have done so more than 50 times have been released from all participations for health services. Those voluntary donors who have given blood more than 100 times, means other than what is stated, have an additional right to free treatment at special rehabilitation hospitals in spas for 14 days. The possibility of leave for two days after the blood donation is regulated by some collective agreements. All this is essential information that, apart from humanitarian and public awareness raising, can also have a stimulating effect on voluntary blood donors especially in actions carried out in organised and working organisations. What is important to emphasise about the implementation of this Act are financial resources that are not secured for this year in the state budget. In order to form a single information system for transfusion medicine, it is necessary to provide a starting amount of 5 million kuna for the equipment and reorganization of transfusion medicine in the next three years, a total of 15 million kuna should be allocated. If we now face the fact that the other half of the last century was a sign of the expansion of transfusion medicine, we must today face the fact that the 21st century is the time of representation and propagation of bloodless treatment and the avoidance of transfusion treatment. By applying pharmacological alternatives to blood transfusions and spare techniques or high-tech methods that reduce bleeding to a minimum, bloodless treatment with the use of pharmacological alternatives, blood transfusions and bloodless technology are a new area of medicine that is available with modern technology called 21st century treatment. The question arises as to what are the benefits and differences in bloodless treatment compared to transfusion medicine. Transfusion medicine spends huge resources to ensure that blood and blood preparations are safe and less risky because World Health Organization reports indicate and warn that only 20% of the blood preparations used to treat patients according to international recommendations are safe at global level. Given the risks posed by transfusion medicine related to all known viruses transmitted by blood, the problem is getting bigger and bigger in view of the mutation of these true viruses and the period of incubation of the disease when serological reactions cannot prove infection. For example, if a person donates blood within three weeks of HIV infection, tests that are currently tested in most countries will not reveal a virus or hepatitis-C where there is a so-called virus. a window period which from the moment they infect to the formation of antibodies lasts longer than two months so that these antibodies can be tested and detected. These are typical and common reasons why there is always fear and suspicion of the presence of the cause of various diseases transmitted by transfusions. On the other hand, bloodless treatment is avoided and therefore prevents transmission of the cause of the disease and unwanted transfusion reactions. In economically developed countries, bloodless treatment methods that are both more cost-effective and less risky are increasingly involved in surgical treatment in abdominal and orthopaedic surgery. In this area of surgical medicine, the overall cost of treatment is reduced by about 5,000 US dollars per patient operated. For this type of treatment, it is certain that bloodless pharmacological alternatives and specialized surgical equipment and instruments that use the effects of argon rays, lasers, ultrasound vibrations, electromagnetic energy are needed so that, with precise surgical cuts, they stop bleeding by closing blood vessels. From the above, it is important to point out that the bill is acceptable in terms of modernising information and equipment but that it is not a negligible item of 15 million kuna or 2 million euros in the next two years if, in part, it could be used to obtain equipment and pharmacological alternatives for bloodless treatment, which is ultimately cheaper, less risky, and the use of this treatment is now carried out only in large clinical centres which are, in fact, the biggest consumers of blood and blood products. This means bloodless treatment offers great savings that can be a significant factor in the health strategy and the necessary savings in it. This is the thinking that we have considered at the club and we believe that this draft final bill is acceptable and good but that we should also think about the bloodless treatment that is actually the treatment of the 21st century and that in the future, this bloodless treatment would bring great savings and benefits to the possibility of passing various diseases on to transfusion medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68167	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68168	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Here, as has already been said, I am pleased that the motion changed the name of the bill that we discussed in November 2005 in the first reading, because that name was the proposal for a law on blood circulation, and now there is added that dreamy blood, and I think that's actually good. Is it before us like we now had the chance to hear the time of bloodless medicine? It may be, if not for another reason, because of the lack of blood that is predicted to affect mankind in two to three decades. The cause will likely be an increasing number of similar donors, the use of more precise methods of blood testing, general ageing of the population, and a significant increase in the number of surgical procedures to be performed with blood compensation. Some information from the World Health Organization's 2004 report. It is estimated that more than 13 million blood donors today have not been tested on HIV and hepatitis B and C virus. This mainly refers to developing countries where even 80% of blood comes from paid donors and where the percentage of infected donors is very high. Because of the fear of infection, tests of voluntary blood donors are getting stricter. The same World Health Organization data says that only 30% of the donated blood in the world has been tested for infectious diseases and in Western countries more and more people will rather give money for such purposes than their own. Medicine, meanwhile, has progressed to the point that it has been realized that it is not only infectious diseases that are transmitted by blood and that blood transfusions can harm the patient in other ways. That's why I think it is to welcome and praise the principle of quality and innocuousness that was managed by the proposer as the basis of this bill. But I think one more thing is to point out that we too could follow more often and more the example of blood autotransfusion in the operations that we are using. I think it's only done for now in one private hospital for cardiovascular surgery and the advantage is that the patient is receiving his own blood bleeds instead of someone else's blood by collecting, purifying, and returning to the organism. I also welcome the fact that for this second reading, the blood definition and the added meaning of the autologous transfusion for which Article 27 correctly established that for this type of transfusion, the donor does not necessarily have to be a full-time person. The way in which the documentation will be regulated on blood, surveillance, the system of authorised units of a lesser but better quality, while at the same time extremely well-informed, brings me into the situation and that I support this bill as a thorough proposal and that it is also highlighted in the debate of the representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community Club I will also give a vote for its final adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68169	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68170	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making a final proposal for a law on blood and blood products that is in line with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Thus, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the legislation of the European Union. In the Republic of Croatia, blood donation is voluntary and free and we heard from the minister that it will remain that way. However, there is no accurate data on the number of blood donors per year and there is no possibility of calculating the number of duties per donor. The existing law has led to the absence of a central location where blood donation data would be collected today. The lack of a single information system in transfusion units prevents the collection of credible data at national level. A small hospital transfusion unit with a small number of blood donors and a small number of employees cannot meet the requirements for ensuring the conditions to be met according to good manufacturing practice for the preparation of blood products. It also cannot meet the conditions for laboratory testing, ensure the necessary documentation, conduct education permanently, implement quality assurance and quality control. It's all expensive and requires an increased number of employees. The existing documentation in units of transfusion medicine is not identical. In most transfusion units, the documentation is missing and does not allow monitoring. So far, transfusion units have not needed accreditation to test or prepare blood preparations. There is also no unique information system. Nor is there a unique register of people who can't give blood. This bill addresses many problems related to transfusion medicine, among other things: supplying the population with blood and blood preparations as a system of expensive and individual measures and activities in the field of planning, collection, production, storage and testing of blood products. Social care for ensuring effective quality and safe blood products. A system of authorised health institutions dealing with the planning, collection and testing of blood as well as the necessary outcomes shall be introduced, the need for a special authorisation to carry out such activities. The collection and testing of blood or production of blood products in the Republic of Croatia may be carried out only by the authorised health care institution which allows it to be authorised by the Minister of Health. The quality of blood preparations is ensured in such a way as to provide a basis for establishing the standards for carrying out transfusion activity. In order to ensure the quality and safety of the blood, it is proposed to form the donor register. Transfusion medicine spends huge resources to ensure that blood and blood preparations are safe and less risky. At global level, only 20% of the blood products used in the treatment of patients are tested according to international recommendations. Almost all tested blood is produced in developed countries while most untested blood is produced in undeveloped countries. The adoption of this bill will satisfy all requirements for as safe and quality transfusion medicine as possible and will finally allow maximum safety of our patients' health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68171	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The area of transfusion activity in the Republic of Croatia is partly governed by the Health Protection Act and also by the 1999 Blood and Blood Ingredients Regulation which provides for the conditions for carrying out the activities of tests, transport, collection and verification of the quality of blood and blood components. Then the method of testing and keeping an eye on the performed, conducted studies and the conditions for the placing on the market of blood and blood components. Transfusion medicine requires, because of its specificity, the establishment of such standards of quality and safety of human blood and blood products, which will ensure a high level of protection of human health and which will prevent the transmission of diseases and, to that end, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Community adopted a directive in January 2003 setting standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components. The adoption of this law, which is before us, seeks to bring the practice of transfusion medicine into line with the provisions of the directive and, in addition, this law should achieve equalisation of work and increase the safety and effectiveness of transfusion treatment in the Republic of Croatia. The problem is that now in the Republic of Croatia we have a fragmented service and there is no central place where all the necessary data would be collected, and as a consequence of such a situation is that there is no, there is no accurate data on the number of blood donors per year, and there is no possibility of calculating the number of donations per individual blood donor. In most transfusion units the documentation is missing, does not allow traceability and supervision. There is no unique information system, nor is there a unique register of people who are not allowed to give blood. Therefore, Articles 31 and 32 of this law propose the establishment of a blood donor register that will certainly contribute to ensuring the quality and safety of blood and blood products, which is essential for ensuring a high level of protection of human health and preventing disease transmission. Also in order to monitor adverse events, a system of traceability is introduced, the labelling of each blood product produced from the donor to the patient and vice versa. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The establishment of such a system will enable the identification of each individual donor, the dose taken and the patient to be unmistakably identified. It is also extremely important to establish a network of transfusion activities. This is regulated by Articles 5 and 6 of this proposal of the law, since only in this way will the same conditions or opportunities be provided for the population to use health care in the field of transfusion medicine, thus reducing the situation that human life is at risk because the patient is at a crucial point in time unable to provide treatment in part-round transfusion medicine. In addition, the creation of a network of transfusion activities would provide an equal opportunity to access blood supply throughout the Republic of Croatia. Today we have a situation that only in larger centres, such as Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka can give blood ingredients via separators, while in smaller environments, voluntary donors are not allowed to do so. Therefore, it is necessary to develop such a network of transfusion activities that would allow not only uniform availability of transfusion medicine services for therapeutic purposes throughout the Republic of Croatia but also equal availability to all those who wish to give their blood or blood ingredients. This proposal on several occasions highlights the principle of self-sufficiency with regard to blood supply and blood preparations and stresses that voluntary blood and blood products will be encouraged to do so. Among other things, Article 26 states, the promotion of the organisation, the giving of blood and blood ingredients in the Republic of Croatia is based on the principles of volunteering, freeness, anonymity and solidarity. For blood or blood taken, the ingredient is forbidden to give the donor cash compensation. Giving blood to save a person's life or to provide successful treatment is certainly an extraordinary human act. The desire to help someone when they need it most is the basic thought of leadership among all voluntary blood donors. They don't expect, and they don't ask to receive any cash compensation for their act. But they do expect a little confession from society. And here's how society and state will repay them for this human act. The latest way is that when they come to a health care facility, they will have to pay an administrative fee for themselves, so they will have to pay for participation if they gave less than 24 times for women or 36 times for men. If it is judged by some announcements, it seems to me that we could be left without it. Furthermore, not only do most employers not approve of the day off to someone who gave blood that day, but they often do not allow work to be left behind so that their employees may engage in a voluntary blood donation campaign organized in their city that day. What do I want to say to these people? What I'm saying is that our country has less and less sensitivity for certain categories of people. So in this case and for the voluntary blood donors, I find that there is little consideration for voluntary blood donors, there is nothing to stimulate them, and that is why it is no wonder that the number of voluntary blood donors is in decline. Another reason for the reduction in the number of blood donors is to create certain prejudices resulting from insufficient education on all those issues related to transfusion medicine. For this reason, it is necessary to access the systematic education of citizens, especially through secondary schools, in order to ensure the conditions for raising public awareness in the need for blood collection, as well as the education activities as well as the promotion of blood and blood products should be implemented by the Croatian Institute for Transfused Medicine and the Croatian Red Cross. Article 24 states that blood and blood preparations should not be exported from the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry may grant exceptional approval in the case of natural disasters and other emergency situations. It is further stated in Article 24(3) that, in this case, testing must be ensured in accordance with Article 15 of this Law. This is in case of exports of blood and blood products from the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, Article 25 states that blood and blood preparations should not be imported into the Republic of Croatia. Again, in exceptional cases such as the elemental disasters and other state of emergency, the minister may authorise imports. And then Article 3 of that Article 25 says that imported blood products must meet the conditions laid down in this law. However, it is not clear from this proposed article, or from this proposal for a law that is before us, who will exercise control in order to determine whether imported blood products meet the conditions laid down in this law. Whether a declaration accompanying the document with each dose of blood or blood preparation will be trusted or control of what we import will be carried out in authorised institutions of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 15. So in that sense, I have submitted one amendment. And at the very end, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68173	Thank you. This is my conclusion. ... Final, Minister of Health and Social Welfare. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68174	Just a few words. Here, thank you all for this very nice discussion. And I have to admit to some very, very good suggestions. What I would just like to say here is that we are absolutely not going to give up this is a proposal which I hope will be discussed and discussed in the first reading, and we had it already in the previous debate, which is that voluntary blood donors, so male sex, who have more than 25, forgive women sex, forgive more than 25 giving, men more than 35 giving, and more than so far, will be released from paying the surcharge, i.e. participation. Here, thank you very much for discussing this one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68175	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68176	Final bill of law on blood and blood products. We have a plate of amendments. Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go, Minister. Amendment 1 to Vice-President Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68177	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68178	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68179	I say thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68180	Please, nice. You didn't hear? Unbelievable. You don't hear well?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68181	How about the 1st Amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68182	Amendment 1. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68183	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68184	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 2. HSP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68185	The government does not accept the amendments for the reasons that all norms are therefore intended to be defined practically under the rules because only from 2000 to today have the norms changed five times. Which means that every time, actually, when a certain norm changes, we're going to change the law. And that's exactly why we want to put it in the Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68186	Okay. What kind of sign is that? Are you pulling what? Who's going on behalf of the HSP Club? Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you can make sure I have at least a minute on the microphone so I can talk. I've already turned it on four times and my colleagues are always shutting down. I don't know if it's an obstruction or if it's something funny. But anyway. So we proposed on behalf of the Club this amendment so that in the law itself, Mr. Minister, we could install that norm which is the most valid at this hour. It's about the fact that this is about blood preparations that, as you know, carry dangerous and most severe diseases to other people, and neither those who are neither guilty nor debtors can be infected with the most severe diseases. And that is why such strict norms have been adopted, and that is why the need to accredit laboratories in such institutions has been adopted. Well, it's not necessary that it may stand which is the norm but we think the law should certainly state that an authorised person must have an accredited laboratory. And you, then, who will be the norm, prescribe it with a rule. But put in law at least that part so that an authorised institution must have an accredited laboratory. Namely, what I'm saying. resulting from your introduction... /The speaker has been disabled./... [[Thank you very much. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68188	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? Voting? Please, let's get on with it. Vote? The result? Nineteen for it. 1 abstention. 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of Representative Mate Arlovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68189	It's unacceptable. In accordance with Article 24(2), the Minister may, exceptionally, authorise the export of blood products to be exported, in the case of natural disasters and other emergency situations, as well as in cases where an urgent medically justified need is concerned. We therefore believe that humanitarian donations are practically approved in the event of all emergency situations and that this term does not need to be particularly stressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68190	Amendment number three withdrawn. 4. Representatives of Jagoda Martic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68191	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68192	It becomes an integral part of the law. 5th Agent Mate Arlovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68193	Government
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68194	He's pulling... 6th Amendment also of Vice-President Mate Arlovic? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68195	In the 6th Amendment, I think that this topic is actually solved more or less by the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, so I don't think there's really any need to repeat it because there's already a really identical definition.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68196	Mr. Minister, I would be in favour of repeating itself just once again for cooperation between the Croatian Blood Transfusion Institute and the Croatian Red Cross, so that there is always one relationship between coordination and cooperation that enables better blood collection. And in that respect, I ask you to accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68197	Vote yes or no? What's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68200	We're going to the next, fourth item of the agenda. - Proposal for an annual budget of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The budget law was adopted by the Government and pursuant to Article 47 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The government also submitted a report on the use of the 2005 budget stock. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You've approached the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have before you an annual calculation of the 2005 budget or as we like to say in the jargon the implementation of the 2005 budget. Since we have sought to explain the budget to parliamentarians, this is why we offer the Croatian public a maximum number of information to see what kind of macroeconomic environment took place so as to collect revenue and spend the budget last year, so allow me to start or give some macroeconomic indicators or macroeconomic environments in 2005. Thus, the real growth of gross domestic product in 2005 was 4.35 but what is very important is to note when we talk about the growth of gross domestic product for last year that investments recorded the largest... growth which increases the outlook for a higher rate of gross domestic product in the next period, i.e. in 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Industrial production growth accelerated from 3.7 in 2004 to 5.1% in 2005 which is the highest rate of annual growth in... 2002. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also have a growth in nominal trade of less than 6.5% or a real growth of 2.8% compared to 2004 when real growth was 2.6%. Tourism, the total number of foreign tourists' arrivals increased by 6.2% and the total number of overnight stays increased by 7.6%, revenues from tourism amounted to around 6 billion euros or 9% growth compared to 2004. At the level of the entire 2005 goods... The shipbuilding rate increased by 8.5%, but if we shut down shipbuilding, then that growth was around 10.4%, and actually imports, and exports increased by 11.4% while imports increased by 10.9% at the same time, employment was reduced from 18.5% at the end of 2004 to 17.8 in 2005, and according to the labour force poll in the second half of 2005 was 12.3%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I should point out that you have 13.1% in the state budget explanation, which is why at the time we wrote an explanation about the implementation of the budget, we had no data on the unemployment rate according to the labour force poll, so we used the data from the first half of 2005 when it was 13.1 and in the second half it was 12.3%. The total foreign debt at the end of 2005 was 25.5 billion euros or about 82.5% of gross domestic product. This slowed annual growth compared to annual growth compared to 2003 when it was 36.1% compared to 2004 when annual growth was 15%, and in 2005, annual growth was 12.1%, therefore compared to 2004. The biggest contribution to external debt growth came from the banking sector. The foreign debt of the state was reduced in December, in December 2005 from December 2004 to 204.4m euros, while the total share of the foreign debt of the state in the same period fell from 31.8% to 27.6%. The deficit of the consolidated general government in 2005 as shown by the modified accounting principle was... thousands of kuna or 4.1%) of nominal value in gross domestic product, which compared to the deficit in 2004 when the deficit was 4.9% reduction of 0.8 percentage points or from the deficit in 2003 when the deficit was 6.2%, 2.1%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to note that significant progress has been made in the area of fiscal governance and transparency during 2005. Thus, hidden subsidies on the Croatian Railways were eliminated, surveillance of quasi fiscal operations and potential liabilities was introduced, an extended single bank account of the state treasury, enhanced publication of data, internal audit teams were established from all budgetary users in the central state and public debt management was improved. A number of measures have also been taken to improve the work of the tax administration, which should mention the establishment of an office for large taxpayers, increased focus on monitoring the collection and income, limited approval of state credit guarantees and continued restructuring of Croatian railways. The total revenue of the state budget in 2005 was 85 billion 928 million and 200 thousand kuna, representing 0.1% above the planned amount at year level, i.e. annual growth of 6 and a half percent. In this respect, operating revenues amounted to 85 billion 653 million and non-financial assets of 275.1 million kuna. Tax revenues were collected in the amount of 50 billion 319 million kuna, which is an annual growth of 7.5%. Contributions to pension and health were raised in 31 billion and 301 million kuna, representing an annual growth of 6.2% or 99.4% of the planned amount. The total contribution from health insurance amounted to 14 billion and 165 million kuna and should be noted that the total expenditure in healthcare amounted to 15 billion and 75 million kuna, which is more than the amount collected by health insurance contributions. In particular, such a proportion was made between contributions to pension insurance, which raised 15 billion 714 million kuna, and pensions were spent or paid pensions on all grounds in 2005 of 26 billion and 687 million kuna. Total expenditure of the state budget in 2005... With 89 billion kuna or 99.8% of the plan, or 5.8% of the annual growth, and when you see the annual growth in revenue and how much annual expenditure growth is, then you can see how you can make a fiscal adjustment of 0.8 percentage points compared to 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Costs for employees were made in the amount of 16 billion 724 million kuna or the execution of 99.4% of the planned funds, with the largest share of around 71.3% having the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. Material expenditures amounted to 5 billion and 205 million kuna or 97% of the planned amount. The financial expenditures amount to 4 billion 828 million kuna, 8.8% or 365 million kuna above the plan of which interest amounts to 4 billion 387 million kuna and therefore it is very important to note why this fiscal adjustment seems important. Because look, just for interest last year, 4 billion 387 thousand kuna, 387 million kuna was paid. If such strong fiscal adjustments had not been made, the reduction in the deficit would have been far higher than it was in 2005. The subsidies were carried out in accordance with the plan, i.e. in the structure of the subsidy, the share of subsidies to companies, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is increasing in the structure, resulting from the government’s policy of investments in agriculture, crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, the subsidies to the railways amounted to a billion and 806 million kuna. 3% or almost the same in 2004, agricultural subsidies amounted to a billion and 990 million kuna or 7.8% more than in 2004. E, the shipbuilding subsidies amounted to 431.3 million kuna or 99.4% of the planned funds. The aids were made in the amount of 3 billion 747 million, 98.6% compared to the plan. Compensation for citizens and households was made in the amount of 47 billion and 363 million kuna. So, as I have already said about pensions and pension incomes 26 billion 687 million kuna, Croatian defenders' pensions 2 billion 943 million and 700 thousand kuna compared to 2004 7.7% more pensions and pensions 5.9% more than in 2004. Health system funds 15 billion and 75 million kuna, maternity benefits of a billion 404 million kuna and 500 thousand kuna or 32.8% more than in 2004. A child's allowance of a billion 435 million and an unemployment fee of 889 million kuna. Capital investment expenditures amounted to a billion 828 million kuna. At the same time they increased by 165 million kuna or 9.9% more than in 2004. The largest detachments were aimed at obtaining construction facilities. The total funding needs in 2005 amounted to 3 billion 758 million kuna, which was less than the plan by 5.3% and 209 million kuna respectively, because you know that the proposed budget had planned a deficit of 4.2%. We managed to achieve a 4.1% deficit, which is why 209 million kuna. Less funds were needed to finance the expenditure of the state budget than was planned. In total, the repayment of loans, the payment of other liabilities by financial instruments amounted to 12 billion and 746 million. So, financed by the issue of bonds and foreign loans... in the case of domestic banks, total receipts from financial assets and borrowings of 17 billion 192 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it should be noted that the revenues from privatisation in 2005 at the level of the state budget amounted to 20 million kuna and the total general state 521 million kuna, so 500 million kuna of privatisation was achieved by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Out-of- budget funds, capital investments of extra-financial funds during 2005 recorded a sum of 6 billion and 208 million kuna. At the end of 2005, the total public debt of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 113 billion kuna and 49.6% of gross domestic product, respectively, and decreased by 0.3 percentage points at the annual level. In doing so, the total debt of the general government participated with 89.1% or 101 billion kuna, while government guarantees amounting to 12 billion 383 million and 800 thousand kuna or 10.9% in the total public debt of the Republic of Croatia were issued. Compared to 2004, there is also a significant annual slowdown in the general government's debt growth from 14% in 2004 to 9% in 2005. The foreign public debt at the end of 2005 was 52 billion 473 million and 900 thousand kuna, down from 5 billion and 401 million and 900 thousand kuna or 9.3% from 2004. The foreign debt of the central state has registered the largest reduction of 5 billion 662 million and 100 thousand kuna. Due to the disbursement of international bonds worth 500m euros at the end of March of last year and the impact of the exchange rate developments, state guarantees issued for foreign liabilities by the end of 2005 amounted to 7 billion and 115m kuna, and thus we can say that the internal debt, public debt at the end of December, amounted to 61 billion kuna 90 million, i.e. increased by 13 billion 993 million kuna or 29.7% compared to the debt situation recorded at the end of 2004. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are basic macroeconomic indicators and basic financial indicators regarding budget implementation in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68202	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68203	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Immediately in its introduction, the HDZ Club supports this report on the budget calculation for the previous year. Why? In order to be able to support these macroeconomic relations, which the minister put forward in part, and I will, of course, present them in a different way, should see in which conditions are being seen in the domestic macroeconomic environment but also in those which have the most important causual effect on domestic production of European work and the world macro-economic environment in the past year. That is why I also put a special point on this international exchange that has a very positive and negative effect on domestic production and I am presenting a number of data from macroeconomics who were in the world last year. In the world, GDP growth in the last year was 4.8% and I ran into it and it was actually a decline compared to 2004. In the world as well as in other countries, the fundamental impact of this has had on oil, oil prices directly through inflation and what through that other channel affects production prices. In the European Union, which is in fact Croatia's most important trading partner, and thus acts mostly on demand as an foreign demand for domestic production. Last year, the index was only 1.3 and 2004. 2.1. It is therefore a GDP decline in the European Community and a significant negative impact on domestic production. The United States as the most powerful economic force, rate 3 and a half 2004. 4.2. So it's going down there, too. And the only major rate of growth I point out specifically was China of 9.9% among other countries but as it is practically not our trading partner except in imports because we depend mostly on imports from China, so that impact had a negative impact on the Croatian economy. Other countries may have been influenced by Russia, which had a slightly higher rate, but there is also a higher trade impact of imports from Russia than imports from Croatia on the market for various reasons. I have already said that oil has affected the world's most important flows, and of course it has affected domestic flows, which through inflation in the past year in our country and in that part of the increase in production prices practically throughout production. Through the movements of macroeconomic indicators in Croatia last year, we particularly highlight the growth of GDP at 4.3%, which is a 0.5% increase compared to the previous year, and we have seen in the world that almost all countries had a decline compared to the previous year, and I am particularly pointing out once again through a significant trade exchange and partners that affect us. Especially in the last year, we have a significant increase in what I point out is a positive increase in investment, and those with a long-term investment structure can have positive developments in Croatia for reasons of long-term investment and not consumption. Therefore, the positive impact should only be followed in the coming periods. We also have an increase in personal consumption although it is degressive growth in fact partly, yet it has a significant impact on the growth of demand and on the growth of GDP in Croatia. Also, the growth of exports regardless of the negative trend of imports this year, but primarily through the influence of oil and through exports, the negative impact of the goods flows has been replaced by those of others through services. We point out that in the past year, although we are not satisfied and no one can be satisfied with the unemployment rate we have but in the past year the unemployment rate is the lowest in the last six years. No matter what I repeat, we are not satisfied with that rate and that we want to move faster and further forward. The general government deficit was reduced to 4.1%) as the previous deficit was almost 5%. The current account deficit is 5.1%, I apologize 6 which is a slight increase compared to the previous year but I reiterate its impact through the negative impact of oil prices and the rest. Just one note through monetary policy, we will hope tomorrow that the measures taken in this area have affected the stabilisation of the economy, and in particular inflation in the previous year, the price of course and the rest that goes through it. Other indicators and data have already been partially presented so there is no need to repeat them. Here's one piece of information that can also positively show about the movements of GDP per capita. Last year, about 6 grand, 400 dollars, and this year, it's about $7,000. So there's still a certain improvement. I repeat how lucky it is that it is much bigger. Investments in capital goods already said they had a significant impact on consumption but grew at a rate of 4.8%. Slowed growth in personal consumption and exports but still has a positive impact on the movement of the economy. We also have a GDP growth contribution through gross investments that have had a positive impact this year. Why? Well, of course, if we keep an eye on it in the long term, it's going to have an even bigger impact. It was particularly positive, industrial production growth was marked by 5.1% but of those 5.1% should be noted that this was the largest annual increase since 2002. So also positive movements that have an exceptional impact on the future period. The processing industry grew at a rate of about 6 and a half, 6.6% and when we know that the processing industry in the structure makes up almost 80% of the Croatian industry then such a rate of growth is of exceptional significance through all the elements that it affects gross national income. The retail trade had a very interesting couple of data because we cannot present all the data, but the increase in the retail trade for a little bit regardless of the slowdown, however, is characteristic that through this one, I point out particularly through these elements that the demand for the population continues to grow, or the loans of the population that we will see through monetary policy but therefore also demand for the population through such funds that are increasing specifically through the loans of the population, loans that are particularly isolated in the housing sector, which means the increase in the housing sector. But interestingly, when we discussed excise duties last year, then we warned very significantly that excise duties would affect the reduction of the number or traffic of cars and all indicators for the previous year suggest a significant increase in car sales and we know that they are all imported. Thus, they have a negative impact on the domestic economy through imports. Of course it can't be limited, but here's an indicator that at a rate of almost 15% and that consumption is growing. It also has the greatest impact of the increase in trade to a little bit as much as through imports, through which it again acts negatively on our market. Fortunately, we have a negative balance of goods through balancing as much as through a positive balance of services, especially in tourism and a rate of about 9%, because nearly 6 billion euros has a significant impact on the balancing or mitigation of such relations. Employment and wages have already said employment is, however, the lowest in, or unemployment in the last six years and wages, although they have had relatively slight growth, have also had a positive impact. In the ino long I point out 3, especially 3 significant indicators that I would say is every year about the aggressive, aggressive growth, in fact, I apologize. Why? First because the foreign debt rate in 2003 was 32%. Index. In 2004. 15% so halved, but still 15% growth. And in this reporting year, 12 wholes seems 11.2% to me, but again, it means smaller than 2004 but it was a 12% increase. Thus, positive trends in the sector. In the trade, we also have special exports of goods, the increase in exports of goods, however, is affected by it, and the seasonal impact of ship delivery is very much affected, so ships as a permanent consumer goods are then seen for two periods so that we can measure this medium impact only in the following year. Shipbuilding affects through that part of the exports too, the occasional exports we have towards other countries, but especially through exports we have in the past year, because it was a reduced number of shipping deliveries for that year. Inflation in motion I've already said stable motion. The stable movement was partly affected by imported inflation through rising oil and production prices in the euro zone, as well as a slight depreciation of the kuna in relation to the dollar. And through domestic movements, the positive impact had an appreciation of the kuna relative to the euro and moderate wage growth and domestic demand, the growth in productivity was also recorded in the previous year, which also rejoices, a decrease in prices, wide-use producer prices and significant strong competition, although it also affects negatively through the restriction of small traders. Strong competition in retail trade also had a certain impact on price and inflation movements. The negative impact on price growth in the previous year had particular oil but also meat in the first phase of the year. Then some clothes and shoes, electricity, and most importantly, a utility that constantly shows the trend of growth, and of course they are outside the regulatory government or any other, therefore they are in the domain of local self-government, and thus significantly affecting the rise in retail prices. Here, these are the movements that marked the previous years significantly, the previous year. All of the monetary policy measures taken by the CNB in the previous year mainly gave positive effects, but there is still no limited growth or increase in bank debt abroad, and all of the consequences resulting from this on the domestic market. In particular, we point out that the fastest population's debt increases, then the economy and others, because there is no administrative impact and the smallest foreign debt growth has a country. These are also important facts and indicators of the economy in the previous year. The state records the lowest rate, but I've already highlighted the population ahead and they say we doubled our debt. And that's to ask how through guarantees and social uncertainty the population can move further into such an insecure area of duty. But the fact is that this trend continues to grow and neither the government nor the state through monetary policy can have a more significant impact on the sector. Growth and deposits but they are not necessarily represented in funding sources. Through the money market, only one sentence, that through all these measures achieved, high liquidity was achieved last year, especially in the banking sector, which then analoguely produces liquidity in other areas. Here, in the end, through the implementation of the State budget, I point out only three facts. That public debt management is particularly improved, that transparency in the State budget is visible, and that a solid fiscal adjustment has been made, that incomes, incomes, expenditures, expenditures are also carried out somewhere in the planned frameworks, that they are slightly higher than in the previous year, that there are stable tendencies in this area. Here's just one small piece of information that the greatest thing, let's say, is characteristic, that the biggest incomes are social incomes, is known from what. The same with the expenditures that are the biggest expenditures in this area because we opted for this social sensitivity in the previous year. A little joke or digression that, they dropped excises on beer and luxury products. Obviously, they either spend less or something else, so we see coffee and some other small ones, which are shown by some negative tendencies so that they can be said in the context of it. So that the budget also achieves certain stability and that, ultimately, through extra-financial funds, I point out that the deficit of these funds in the previous year is lower by nearly 1.5 billion kuna compared to the previous year, which also shows some positive developments in this sector. These are all reasons for countless indicators and data, the reasons for which we at the HDZ Club once again consider this to be one stable year and a solid year as an even better solid foundation for the economy this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68204	Thank you. HNS Club, Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68205	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. First one methodological note, I think that here in the Croatian Parliament in 15 years has never appeared the same document, the same structured document so that we can closely monitor what is actually going on with the budget. There's always some transformations, some new methodologies. So, with all due respect, you have to take three or four documents to even know what's going on in the budget. It is, of course, also the fruit of probably some new methods, but I'm afraid there's plenty of volunteering for certain ministers, ministerial assistants. So it's almost impossible to track what's going on in the budget. Except perhaps at this macroeconomic level, the macroeconomic level. When you try to enter a particular segment of the budget, and which is of course equally important, then you can almost not call on "The People's Newspaper" from half a year ago, etc. to see what's actually going on in that budget. As far as these macroeconomic relations are concerned, the HNS Representatives Club was against budget rebalancing, and for the same reasons, because that budget seems to me to have been well carried out in that part, it will also be against the implementation of that budget. And against the budget rebalancing last year, I think it was June or July of the month because we were against increasing consumption and reducing investment. The budget rebalance of July last year resulted in an increase in salaries of 346 million kuna, remuneration for citizens by 500m kuna and some million kuna, and reduced material expenditures, financial expenditures, subsidies. In particular, subsidies in agriculture. This means that the development component was actually weakened, and the consumption component was reinforced. And it seems that in that part this budget is well done. For us, of course, it's bad because we think that concept wasn't good, that this budget rebalancing was actually harmful. He was necessary, so it was the fruit of our finances, but it was not good that we entered that trend of development. Speaking of this budget, I must once again express my dissatisfaction with the fact that we here do not have the basic data on the items adopted by the Croatian Parliament. We made it possible for the Minister of Finance, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, to call it a technical rebalancing item so that you cannot know exactly what budget is, or budget rebalancing, and then the budget adopted by the Croatian Parliament in July last year. You must look at "The People's Journal" to know how an item was planned because not only did the Ministry of Finance change that item, but it does not specify the item adopted by the Croatian Parliament at all. I'll give you a few examples for that. In the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport for Primary Education was planned last year 29 million kuna, on page 224 of our budget, then rebalancing it down to 23 million kuna, but you can't see it. In this budget, it just says that the 2005 plan was 13 million kuna. That 29 million kuna was planned, that the Parliament decided in July that it was 23 million kuna it is not seen from this document, you must reach out to the "National Journal" to see that the total cost is reduced by the budget for 2005 by more than 50%. I don't think that's right, and I don't think the Ministry of Finance should have the powers to change these measures in such important items and in this amount of the budget item, if it already changes them, then it must specify which one was the rebalanced budget adopted by the Croatian Parliament because it is the only budget of the Republic of Croatia. What the Government is changing, which is no longer a budget, is the technical rebalancing of the budget adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Another example of the reform project of the same Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was planned 3 and a half million kuna, reduced to 2.7 million kuna, I am talking about approximate figures, and here in this document is listed as the 2005 budget of 433 thousand, almost 10 times less than the Parliament adopted in late 2004 and one five, six times less than the Parliament adopted in July, but you can't get that information here. I don't think that's good, that's how it's very difficult to track very important segments. Mr. Prtvenjaca and Mr. Shucker were talking about macroeconomic indicators. Of course it's important, but sometimes it's very important to monitor what happens exactly in certain segments specifically in this segment of education that we so stand for. So these are the reasons why we believe that such budgets should not come here to the Croatian Parliament, that they should be as much like those budgets that we adopted, that they can be closely monitored, which item is realised, why some item is not realised to see a particular policy, education policy, and not just some macroeconomic policy that is important, of course, but cannot get the impression of its importance if it is not known what the realisation of all other policies is, and of course it includes all the policies implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is adopted by the Croatian Parliament. And just a few more notes regarding this budget. I'll point out that most of the items were achieved here with 100%. It is absolutely impossible for the wages planned to be made at 18 million kunas to be made with 100%. In one kuna, these wages have been made. What does that mean? That means that it's somewhere in the layout, because if someone's retired early, if someone's gone to sick leave only the only man it can no longer be achieved with a single kuna, and here you have half the items that have been achieved with 100%. It is not a good way to present the budget, I do not think it is a major failure if it is not a major shift in data as it is in these cases I mentioned, but it would be good to have the basic data adopted by the Croatian Parliament so that we can therefore better monitor it. And only two special notes. It is very important here to see that the protested guarantees have been activated in excess of 411 million kuna. It's big money, and only 56 million kunas are charged from these protested guarantees probably from some previous years, so it's a very serious thing and it's saying, of course, that it should be very careful when guarantees are issued this year, or this year 2005, the guarantees have been issued somewhere around 7 billion kuna, but 411 million kunas have come through protested bail guarantees, so it's no joke at all, it's a large amount and we can hardly imagine ourselves over that amount of protested guarantees, because in principle against these protested guarantees we can't do, these are companies that are dependent on the state, which have serious social repercussions anyway, so there's nothing we can do about it. Therefore, we must be very careful that these guarantees, which we issue, are as restrictive as possible, so that we do not have these protested guarantees growing. And finally another note concerning the Department of Defense. If, with the regular salaries shown here, you add more salary compensation, which is the same component of that money that counts as the cost of wages, then you get the information that 74% of the defence ministry budget is spent on employees' salaries. I repeat, I've said this several times here if someone knows something about the defense system then knows if the costs are 70% for wages there's no talking about how the system is well composed and it's known that there can be no talking about good maintenance, about quality training, and I'm not talking about equipment and modernising the armed forces. That's the case with other systems, of course. And in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, wages account for almost 80% of all costs, hence, the Ministry of Interior is worth all of these notes, it says that our systems are poorly structured, that most of the money is still spent on wages, and that what is modernization, which is the quality of any of these systems' activities, is, of course, related to the health system in some way, perhaps not in these percentage amounts, then is spent of course much less, therefore these are all the reasons why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will not support this budget. Thank you very much. This budget bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68206	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68207	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! An analysis of the annual accounts of the State budget for 2005 is a document that we can really comment on politically differently. It is expected that the government's position promotes the government, promotes the results that the government achieved last year, especially on the macroeconomic plan, assesses both economic performances and in some ways development and social policy. The opposition, if the document is made and shows that there are no such results, that there is no development, that there is no quality social policy benefit for the government's harsh criticism. So you see, 20 hours as it is now shows that obviously the position has no reason to celebrate, the reason to point out its success, so this topic that I think is even more important than the budget is put in at 8:00. And the truth is, we in the opposition will take advantage of the opportunity to speak very sharply about 2005 and the results of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what is so late. But you see, this chosen time because we're going to talk about the same data in different ways of talking whose data are read correctly and who reads the same data correctly. So you see, in order to be as concrete, understandable as it is important for us in the opposition to understand us both colleagues and colleagues from the position, we will be as clear as possible with a few numbers, not as much as our minister, so that we can somehow follow our conclusions, our views, so I would say our messages. You see, the Croatian Government's economic programme is highlighted in the memorandum on economic and financial policy, which is addressed to the IMF and is clearly the first priority of reducing the external vulnerability of the Republic of Croatia. We didn't hear the answer if it was done. It is clear that fiscal policy is in the function of reducing budget deficits, reducing consumption, stopping wage mass growth, stopping growth losses. We haven't heard the answers to the very results of fiscal policy. It is also said that it must be ensured in the macroeconomic environments of the battle for the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia's economy, speed up privatisation processes, ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system, all of this is written in this document and, of course, the implementation of structural reforms. Well, you see, first we'll give our grade. The SDP Club concludes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of those economic objectives in a memorandum it issued neither in the second year of its mandate achieved a single objective, which points to the failures of the Government of Croatia and in 2005. In fact, this result of the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the SDP Club also wants to boost with a one-off state budget in 2005 that passed 103 billion kuna and the other targets. So we can conclude that this failure now generates increased vulnerability to the external Republic of Croatia, failure and responsibility for failing to achieve budget deficits, or reducing deficits, reducing consumption, health losses. We estimate that because of its failure, the government has made the position of the economy worse in the fight for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, that it is jeopardising the long-term sustainability of the pension system and that it impoverishes the citizens of Croatia, and now we want to explain it. Why the SDP Club believes that increasing the external vulnerability of Croatia is the result of government work in 2005. Number one, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia has been increased to 25.5 billion euros or 82.5% of gross social product, which is 2.3% higher than 2004. So we're not comparing ourselves to the former government. More than in 2004. Also, the unfavourable relationship is in the debt and export of goods. Simply, ino debt increased from 160 to 167% of goods exports and these negative trends were seen in 2006, meaning failure to stop the debt. The current account deficit was paid abroad in 2005 to over 2 billion euros or 6.3% of gross social product, and this is the result especially in the goods account because it is simply far more imports than exports. And of course, what we were saying in 2004 is that the shipbuilding exports of more than 40% if we compare to 2004 which means that the result of the enormous exports of shipbuilding in 2004 is not the production of shipbuilding in 2004, and of course the increase in imports of oil and oil derivatives but not only because of the rise in oil prices but also because the largest importer of derivatives in the last year INA that no longer deals with production but imports of derivatives that are far more expensive than oil. Both show that the external vulnerability of the Republic of Croatia has increased. Why does the SDP Club feel that the government has failed to achieve a deficit reduction in fiscal policy? We heard the data, 4.1% of the deficit according to the modified method, and now we just want to make it very clear to all of you. You don't see six billion unpaid bills in health care and health deficits anywhere. Even trying to say these are the problem of the county hospital, but it is also the deficits of the county budgets that count also in the deficits of the Republic of Croatia. So if they're hiding county hospitals it's again a deficit that should have been shown. Then we have unpaid obligations to builders because they were not allowed to issue bills for the end of the year, unpaid obligations of Croatian railways, unpaid incentives to farmers, we did not pay them, but only in April, are not shown in deficits. Unpaid liabilities per county that are evident. Even yesterday, Prime Minister Sanader discussed it with the mayors and especially the examples of Požeko-Slavon County. By what we say? It's 4.1, it's modified, but there's not one of these data inside. Not one of these data, it's a bigger deficit. It's a bigger deficit. The target has not been achieved. It's not. I'm not gonna say it was supposed to be 3.7. It's a memo. Therefore, it is not only a deficit that is unrealized but it is the problem and the cause of the indifference that is present in the Republic of Croatia. Then we have a problem reducing budget spending. All data, even the National Bank analyses, speak of 2005 as the year in which spending in the budget is growing again compared to 2004 when it did not grow. One of the problems is the mass of pay. And it is clearly indicated that the mass of wages is rising due to an increase in the number of public service employees. And of course what is very important is a prominent increase in domestic debt because simply this kind of budget is not able to service that consumption and... Why does the SDP Club consider the position of the Croatian economy to be worsened in the battle for competitors? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We assess besides those general assessments there are no structural reforms, there are insufficient investments in modernisation and we can look at how much the budget invests in subsidies. Then we boast of industrial growth but did we even hear tonight that the biggest growth is stock. 11% year-on-year. What does that mean? Yeah, yeah, production. Production, why? For supplies? And what do the supplies mean? Indifference again. Indifference again. We don't produce for the market because it's on stock. Thus, the problem of Croatia's competitiveness is seen. Then we won't say that last year we burdened the Croatian economy and... politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The VAT return deadlines have changed. Some excise duties have been increased, and on the absence of an oil price policy where the price should be fought... If we want to ensure the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and the cheaper price of the Croatian economy, we will not even talk about it because it was a topic that we discussed for a long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course it's all the reason that Croatia takes up very, very low competitively, I would say the last positions on the scales of many independent institutions in the world. I'm leaving out corruption affairs because I don't have time. Why does the SDP Club consider the pension system in the Republic of Croatia destabilised? Well, you see, the occurrence of occasional retirement delays. Come on, sanctioned by changing directors. The average pension of 45.6% of the average salary in 2003 today fell to 40.2% of the average salary. And unfortunately, some new pensioners leave with 36% of the average pension salary. Current workers save for their pension and pay only 5 index points for the mandatory pension column. If we recalculate this very miserable and unsustainable average pension of future pensioners. Did we increase the index points from the contribution, I apologize, the contribution to the mandatory pension column in these two ovres in 2006, the third year for the current period? We didn't. We have not implemented any further reform that would mean the safety of future pensioners. All this means that we can conclude a fully destabilized pension system. And generation solidarity, but unfortunately futures who work for their pensions. Why does the SDP Club consider this kind of budgetary policy impoverishing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? The 2005 feature is the accelerated inflation of consumer prices. In 2005, we recorded 3.3% of consumers, the consumer price index. And 3.1 basic inflation for the reason that the price of industrial products fell after 2005. To speed up consumer price inflation, in particular, there was a rise in food, clothing and footwear prices. And all because of the rise in oil prices. Wrong policy again in 2005. Governments of the Republic of Croatia at the price of diesel. Slowing the growth of the price index has contributed to lower demand for Croatian goods and very slow or mild wage growth. Either better said in 2005 of all real salary growth of 1.7% or never unmarked such low wage growth since 1977. What does that mean? It weighs the lives of workers and pensioners who have only 40% of such average salaries. This is the reason why the SDP Club considers that the larger ino of the Republic of Croatia in particular with increased debts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in kuna commitments, the increase of current account deficits paid abroad even with the characteristics of unpaid commitments by budgetary users, while at the same time the poverty of workers and pensioners are the main characteristics of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2005 and this is the reason why the SDP cannot give it a passing assessment. And we point out, I don't have time to further explain that the key flaw and in setting targets is that the government has not defined a higher rate of economic growth. For the first time, our prime minister mentioned the economic growth of 6% for future generations and forgetting that the last two years have remained far from that expected growth, and that is why the number of unemployed in the past year unfortunately remained at 308,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68208	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68209	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague presented several very unpleasant inaccuracies, such as the position has no reason to celebrate. Mr. Secretary didn't celebrate here. He just displayed a very solid budget which is both craftyly well-assembled and displayed. In which it is clear and clear that the tax budget has been charged more by 5 billion and 200 million kuna, that from excise duties from 14 to 6% have increased excise duties, that economic growth was not on the burden of increasing the new debt as in the mandate of fellow MPs, but in reducing the dynamics of foreign debt, but increasing economic growth on the basis of an increase in industrial production. The data on supplies here cannot, of course, be taken into account because industrial production has been achieved, and in time dynamics it will, of course, be realised on the market. It is also incorrect that the poor deficit is 4.1% because it was inherited by 6.7%. As it is incorrect that there is no debt of 4 and a half billion kuna in health care. It has a return debt of 7 billion kunas that we inherited. So all these inaccuracies when we add up we can say that this is the budget that is appropriate for this period, that we should congratulate the government and the ministry... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68210	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68211	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, a colleague, Linic, incorrectly stated that it is actually from this budget that it can be seen that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been impoverished. I'll just read you here. Total kuna savings savings from business banks increased by 5.5 billion kuna or 4.5% in 2005. The biggest contribution to this increase came from the deposits of the population that were increased by 4.1 billion kuna, with our rich residents not saving in banks, so be assured. Furthermore, it is incorrect that biodiesel will soon stabilise the oil market because it is only in trade and in developed countries. Maybe just, a colleague might have thought in the heat of fighting the windmills. Because his exposure was more like fighting windmills.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68212	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's very interesting to listen to the debates of people who don't accept arguments. None of these criticisms were accompanied by any argument. I would say to Mr. Rados that the methodology for budgeting is exactly the same methodology when you were Minister of Government, nothing has changed. I don't understand how you can say that the reduced subsidies in agriculture are if they are 7.8% higher. Also, you'll get the State Audit report and you'll see that in 2003, it's only 3.4 billion kuna, and in 2005, it's only a billion and 700, and that's the difference you're talking about. However, it was very interesting to observe the esteemed representative Linic for the implementation of the budget. But I would remind you, I was getting the circumstances of a representative in the last term and discussed the budget at 12 o'clock in the evening. And I would also remind you that you did not have the courage to carry out the budget for the first six months of 2003, given to the Parliament for debate, but went to the elections without a report on the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of 2003. As for the reduction of extreme vulnerability. There's something that's true that you can't kill, so you can talk whatever you want, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has cut the foreign debt for the central state in 2005 by 206 million, 205 million euros. The fact that you're saying today that the government should control the duties of Croatian banks, that the government should control the responsibility of Croatian citizens, that today you're saying that Croatian citizens should not buy new cars or anything like that, that's your policy issue. This government cannot adapt to that policy. However, you forgot that the external debt of the Republic of Croatia has increased by 31.6% in the last year of your rule. And this is a diagram of the growth of the external debt. And last year there was a 12.1% increase. It is also very important to look at public debt growth and privatisation revenues. This is foreign debt growth, these are privatisation revenues. How much foreign debt would it be, Mr. Representative, if you hadn't had 15 billion revenue from the privatisation you spent covering the deficit? And you forgot all that. Because your privatisation revenues were like this, seven, ten, 13 billion kuna in three and a half years, four years of your rule, and this is when you look at the growth of external debt and the revenues from privatisation. It means that you have not spent the funds left of your former government since the privatisation of the Bank of Zagreb if you had not spent the money from the second phase of the privatisation of the Croatian Telecom, and that you did not spend the funds from the privatisation of the INA in financing the deficit of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia would have been 2 billion euros higher today only as regards the central state. And that's true. And that's true. And we managed to reduce that foreign debt. And the deficit can also be financed from only two sources, either by new borrowing or by selling assets. Fiscally, you claim that this government has made no fiscal adjustment. I said that Mr. Representative, gentlemen, ladies and deputies have no hidden unpaid incomes. What you said in the health care, Mr. Representative, you sent a document to the International Monetary Fund as Vice-President of the Government signed it then that there was no... that there isn't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] at least at the end of 2003. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And... There were billions of kunas in health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a billion kunas came in and they weren't paid with three-and-a-half billion kuna bills that weren't due. And that was true. You can't talk about HZ. I'm saying it again because you keep imputing it. Croatian railways are not an integral part of the consolidated budget of the Croatian state. And you can't talk about unpaid Croatian railway accounts that's the problem with the Croatian budget. Because this Parliament has made a decision that Croatian railways can receive 2 billion kunas from the state budget. That's how much they got, and that's what they cover themselves with. And you can't say that the deficit of the Croatian Railways is a deficit of the state budget. Also when there's an interpretation of Pozega, because you mentioned it, then you'll see by which professional methodology 342 million came. Today, even the State Audit isn't working very well for us. And it doesn't say the way it suits us. But with regard to the objectives of the IMF memorandum, let's wait 9 months, the IMF board will best decide whether these objectives are met or not. There's always talk of indifference. What indifference? Where is this indifference present? Who doesn't pay? That's not true. That's just not true. Mrs. Zgrebec, you left a billion and a half. ... Please tell me so I'll continue no problem, I'll be there. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... Mr. Linic, you left 800 million unpaid incentives when you left power in 2003. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You left 800 million unpaid incentives under the law that you adopted that year. 800 million incentives you didn't pay off in agriculture. Today, some Croatian farmers say how much the incentives have not been paid off with today. Today, Croatian farmers know exactly what incentive and in which day they will be encouraged, that is true, and you simply couldn't do it because you had the budget as you had and I have no intention of throwing yourself out of the bench with you. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What protest on the street? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68214	Gentlemen, please. This form of communication. We won't do this anymore. Nice to talk, listen. There are few of you, not few of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68215	Late retirement. You've qualified your pension eight days earlier as a late retirement. It's just genius. Which means on the Croatian financial market 800 million kunas provide 8 days earlier, those who deal with finance are best aware. So, eight days early retirement is a delay for you. You'll probably also mark tomorrow's start of paying off pensioners' debt as something that hasn't happened. It's also economic growth. You've had a $14 billion increase of only two and a half years of economic growth of 5.2%, and we have continued. ... Mr. Linic, these are your indicators. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Turns out what you reported wasn't true, so there's no reason why today... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68216	We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68217	I agree with Mr. Shuker that it is difficult to discuss when arguments are not respected, but the incorrect assumption is that the budget he presents to the Parliament was made at the time of the former government. For the first time during your ministry, it happened that the figures adopted by the Croatian Parliament, I gave you those two figures, one concerning primary education on page 224. She doesn't even appear here in the text of this document. That's the first time you've introduced it, I don't enter the other elements of the methodology. And the second thing about subsidies, I also made it very clear by the budget rebalancing last year the subsidies were reduced by 253 million kuna, only in the agriculture of 80 million kuna, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs 20 million kuna, in the beefing of 20 million kuna, for the permanent crops of 16 million kuna and for the irrigation of 16 million kuna. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what I'm confirming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68218	Second correction, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68219	Mr. Minister, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that it is not your obligation to reduce the extreme vulnerability and that control of the debt and the battles to reduce imbalances in the current balance of payments account. That's what you signed in the IMF document. ... Both, and a reduction in the debt and a reduction in the current account. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's one invalid. Secondly, at the same session, we have a report from the National Bank. The report on the first page reads: "The State Statistics Office published in March 2006."so only three months ago. Growth for 2002 and 2003, and that's 5.6 and 5.3, and you've just found the truth that we've only had a year of 5.2. Mr. Minister, you need to know the State Statistics Service data from March this month.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68220	And the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68221	I'll do it. Don't take my time. I will correct that part of the minister's presentation where he says there are no outstanding obligations, and I hold in my hands the government's answer to my asked parliamentary question. He says this: "The government of the Republic of Croatia stresses that the funds provided for 2005 for the payment of all incentives in agricultural production in 2005 were insufficient to pay in full." Furthermore, as time moves away from me, he says: "In agreement with the Croatian Peasant Alliance and the Committee of Agricultural Associations held on 17 March 2006, it is agreed that all payments will be thus up to that full amount for 2005 paid by April, until 14 April 2006. "years." It's not in the deficit, we don't know what that amount is. And that the villagers know why they're getting incentives, so the government tells me that they can't send a solution to the production rules for which they get incentives because they don't have adequate information support. The government tells me that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68222	And the fourth correction, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68223	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'll just point to one thing. Mr. Minister says the state's external debt has been reduced. That's what he's always saying, the central states, and he's always saying it and everybody else. I'm reading the National Bank of Croatia's latest number 115 in which it said in the 12th month of 2003, so when the government took over the central state debt helm, it was 6 billion 6 hundred millions and 600,000 euros. At the end of last year, so in the 12th month of 2005, when this report dates to the central government's external debt amounted to 7 billion 47 million and 400 million, and the latest debt data in the 2nd month, is now on the portal and the 3rd month is talking about 6 billion 822 million and I don't know what. So neither is the debt of the central state reduced without talking about the total debt of a state that no one can control anymore, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68224	Thank you. Now we're going to individual debates. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68225	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. This proposal for annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 shows that the Government has serious problems with accepting reality, and the escape from reality does not achieve real results nor can one meaningful rational policy be conducted. And so here are only the announced Croatian drivers, with inflation promises, achieved an impact deficit, of course along with their coalition subcontractors. Your confidence, Mr. Minister, is completely uncovered. Sometimes when we face the arguments of that confidence, it disappears, but then the scene comes with haughtiness in behavior. Incompetence in resource management is evident. Also on stage is the privileged position of party-like parties at the expense of quality and capable, the collapse of the health and pension system is on the scene with the reduction of social rights. Unfortunately, it is an inconclusive fact that gross social products today amount to only 80% of what Croatia achieved 16 years ago and that the level of industrial production that you boast so much today is only 60% of the time, so 16 years ago. And don't the constant warnings that come from all sides exactly in that big gap between imports and exports exactly and surprisingly alarm the government for the management of a meaningful economic policy, but that's why the government is here after two and a half years, two years and a few months the authorities are substituting a strategic framework by 2013 and we don't know what we're going to do today, we don't know what we're doing, we don't know what we're going to do tomorrow. This meaningful economic policy should increase production employment, strengthen industrial production and export growth that could outweigh the double growth of gross social product. That should be the government's primary goal, of course not to declare it, but to be truly and truly. Here is the report from the International Monetary Fund of that enemy, as you called it in opposition times and us servants of that international financial institution. And you see, when this same IMF is speaking today, or all these years and announcements, or warns Croatia, in the end, and such stand-bax is a concluded arrangement with the IMF two years ago that directly speaks of reducing social rights both pension and health. You're talking, you're easing it to the Croatian public, you're always saying it's not about that, it's about some kind of rational spending of funds. I think the easiest thing to say is unscrupulous. What the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development said just a few days ago. Although the prime minister's words were full of socialism this morning, which he gave because he could not answer reasoned questions and claims of opposition, so the mouth was full of socialism accusing the natural opposition, and you see the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development saying that Croatia is lagging behind in accepting capitalism even for Albania and Macedonia. In Croatia, private entrepreneurs make a smaller share of GDP, so only 60% of them are averages in Southeast Europe, where it is 66%. Croatia has thus sharpened other macroeconomic differences all at a time when the country is still very vulnerable due to a large foreign debt. Industrial production you are boasting is increased but it is less by 2.9% compared to the same month last year and export trends show again the trend of decline compared to imports. Exports are so you say they've grown. It increased by 1.3%, but imports increased by 4%. Keep your mouth shut about that. You're talking about increasing employment but employment is once again approaching the border of those unhappy 20%, but of course you're hiding from the public employment in the state administration which, in addition to the competition, I'm already here as a representative for two and a half years, I can't get the exact information as to how many new employees are, how much this government has done, and you're making yourself ignorant with data and giving me an answer, because it's not an answer to how many total employees are in certain ministries. There's no way we can get the information on how new the employees are, so I'm going to go over it with a reminder of the government's provisions and criminal provisions following the non-compliance of the Access to Information Act. The highest inflation rate in the last ten years has also been recorded. Realistically, wages are reduced or stagnated. Of course, this normally caused the unfavorable mood of a large part of the population. That's quite understandable. The drop is business and economic activities. By the way, the debt of the central state spoken of by my colleagues was increased, especially Slavko Linic, saying on behalf of the SDP Club, noting the growth of the internal debt you are silent about. Should a specific comment then be given to these movements and whether it is not unrealistic to show the current economic situation to a successful one. During all this time, a serious debate on key economic issues and Croatia's movements has been missing. One of the main media escapades of the government itself lately, especially the prime minister himself, is just thanking and growth of the gross social product from 4.3% to the extent that there are government members who like to say they were surprised themselves. So that percentage surprised the prime minister himself. But we all know that the growth structure is not promising at all, it is based on record revenues and bank, HT, INA and other monopoly companies. This structure is not productive but is beneficial and in 2002 economic growth was 5.6% and you then criticised it as low and inadequate for the successful development and progress of Croatia. After all, the economic growth of 4.3 that you so boast about is not at the level to which you really should boast, at least not too much praise. Here, analyst HYPO ALPE-ADRIA-BANK, who is increasingly more than could be said to be a boring opposition moot who believes that the effects of GDP growth on the country's economy remain significantly limited precisely because of the high share of imports not only of capital but also of good and investment. You see, that these visiting meetings of the Government that talk about some fatalazmagorical projects in certain counties, so that they are a little bit more working and a little less parade, then I would not ask you in the Croatian Entrepreneur List that Croatia 59th was published on the list of competitiveness published by the International Institute for Management Development of Lozana where the country of Croatia of 61 observed countries was 59th place. Croatia is best ranked 50th because several factors are therefore taken into account in terms of infrastructure, so given what was most found and found by the last government. But as the weakness of Croatia stands out... You're not in the circus, book it for your place. [[Applause.]] Croatia's weakness highlights the ineffectiveness of the business sector and according to that criterion, you see our country takes the last 61st place. And you, Mr. Minister, show your self-satisfaction here. You will soon realize that here you are not for your own self-satisfaction and satisfaction but for the satisfaction and need of Croatian citizens who are very, very dissatisfied [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68226	In 20.15, it was time for an individual debate of 10 minutes. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68227	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Ingrid Antičević said: unemployment comes to a magical 20% limit. It's simply incorrect. It is true that this line is moving slowly but certainly from that, from the magical limit of 20%, and I will remind you that unemployment in 2000 was 21.1, 2001. 22%, 2002. 22.3%. And it is 17.9% today, in other words the trend in unemployment has been recorded since 2004. You're absolutely wrong, you're wrong, and you were even in a situation where you got close to the magical border of 400 thousand unemployed, and I think it was at 6 months, in 5 months 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68228	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68229	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Since fellow Linic has elaborated most of the segments on behalf of our Club, I will try to say a few more words in a very short presentation. It is, in fact, in a financial sense, a statement of the realisation of the government's policy in a one-year period, and when we talk about the calculation of the budget, it is actually the real realization of such a policy. In this context, these materials should also be monitored and the government's success should be assessed in 2005. However, at the outset, I would point to two provisions of the Law on the implementation of the budget, which are persistently not fulfilled by the representatives or by the Government. The law also provides for a postponement of tax and contribution, and in Article 39, paragraph 5 states that the Government will report to the Croatian Assembly on the actions referred to in this article in addition to the half-yearly and annual report on the implementation of the budget. ... We don't have any, so if it wasn't, then it should have been written, it wasn't, but we know it was. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For example, "The Stone of Ingrad" was so on. We then had a budget rebalancing and amendments to the budget law where we added a new Article 40a, which says that the Government will, on a proposal from the Ministry, make decisions on redistributing the funds for operating expenditure and for obtaining non-financial assets within the budget of planned expenditure funds and in the next point, that the Government will inform the Parliament within 15 days of the date of the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. I keep fighting the windmills year after year and I say it's not right, but here I've made an effort, so I've taken out from the National Journals how many redistributions have been made by the Parliament within 15 days not reported, so neither is it now that we're discussing the Budget. The audit also said it wasn't right, but who cares what the audit says? However, I would like to remind you of some of the discussions we have had in the last ten, eleven years that I am in the Parliament, and it depends on which side we are discussing. We're in opposition or position. So just over two and a half years ago, the growth of gross products of 5.3 or 5.6 was too low. Now we settle for 3.8 and 4.3, respectively. These are the government's great successes in economic policy. So we had an inflation of 1.8% and then they had, they were such growth rates, and now we have 3.3%, and it's still not the government's fault, but it's because of the rise in oil prices, and when the prices went up, the government didn't do anything. She killed both excise duties and increased VAT. When the debt at the end of 2003, the total debt was slightly above EUR 19 billion, then it was about Argentine syndrome, about bankruptcy, about how much the child was born in charge, and today when we had 25 and a half billion at the end of last year, it's not a problem at all. Now we know how to manage debt, now the government is not even responsible for the bank's duties, so our citizens normally need to borrow what we said. Well, our citizens have the right to be in charge. The inherited debts were huge in 2003. Even letters of intent were included in debts, and today we hear that, for example, county hospitals' debts have nothing to do with deficits. Well, unpaid drugs also have nothing to do with the deficit, so now what I'm reading is that the government has written to me that they are not paid in full, and that also has nothing to do with the deficit, and now it's no longer a modified deficit calculation and so on. And now a few, just a few sentences about these major economic indicators. Our annual GDP growth rate 4.3% for last year and the world economy in this economic crisis has reached 4.8%. Where are we? So we're not even on the average of the growth of the world economy where there's the same oil crisis, where wars are being fought, and so on? So then we have huge successes in industrial production with 5.1% of annual growth and at the same time we produce on stock. The National Bank's report also said that strengthening domestic demand in 2005 was not strong enough to compensate for weakened foreign demand from which data from the State Bureau of Statistics on the movement of trade. The consequence of this discrepancy is that the stock of finished products in 2005 grew faster than industrial production at an annual rate of 11%, which was particularly stressed... /The speaker was excluded./... years. It wasn't me. So I'm saying we're going to sell it, only when you've tied the capital to the supplies then you know what's going on in the companies, at least you who are like me, working in the companies. We know what it means to tie the trade capital to the stock. And these big economic results then we have a real salary growth of 1.7%, which says they're the result of an increased tax deduction. Gross wages are up 1.2%. Well then, with such low wage growth, we still have a drop in the average pension rate, which is now down to 40.2% at the end of the year. That there's little work to do in employment, and maybe that's the problem with the structure of people who are on the employment desk talking and the fact that we can't get off the 300 grand figure, so we're at 312 grand, so we're at 308,000, but we're nowhere below 300 grand we can't fall. At the same time, the government is abolishing active employment measures, not already paying off the actually realised incentives. This takes several months to go into the budget at the beginning of this year with almost the same active employment measures. And something that really confused me. When we went into budget rebalancing, we said, the main reasons are the changes in the 2005 budget, slower growth in economic activity in the first quarter than expected at the time of budget preparation and the need for change in expenditure structure. So we're cutting revenue by 786 million kuna, and now all of a sudden we have big economic results, but they don't even show up in revenues. It's seen in increased expenditures. All of this is actually saying that politics, economic policy, is run by ad hoc, that actually the government doesn't even know how to intervene. There is no strategy at the end of the term, no strategy is implemented, no macroeconomic strategy adopted in the Croatian Parliament. There's a frame that doesn't have a picture. And so the mandate will expire, and we will continue to speak, perhaps in some other power-building of these great debts. We may be able to speak again about how much the child's only born is in charge, but the citizens won't live any better than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68230	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68231	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, my colleague said it's made for supplies. Unfortunately, she didn't say what was being made for supplies, maybe for supply supplies, possibly water or something. But it would be interesting to take a look at what supplies we found from the time we were singing. Just before we heard it there in '89, '88, so huge supplies were produced for nothing. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68232	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Same fate. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go. It's a microphone. It's a microphone, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68234	Here, I'll do it again. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would refer to four thesis which, with other data, the Government points out as positive in the explanation of this budget. First of all, reduced unemployment by 0.7%. Yes, but for weeks I haven't said for months we can monitor in the media the affairs of hiring members of the family of top state officials or HDZ members to very responsible functions. For example, advisory places in certain ministries, secret services, etc. directly from college, and without any work experience. We also heard about the numbers this morning during the current morning, so it seems that there is a secret to the success of reducing the unemployment of this government. Secondly, the general government deficit fell from 4.9% in 2004 to 4.1% of GDP in 2005. Well, no wonder we remember that the largest and most significant capital investments have been hitched. First of all, I think of investments in energy and transport, i.e. the lack of investment in INA, HEP and Croatian Railways. The result of such a policy we had the opportunity to see recently in an affair with fuel collection where it came out that the INA with existing capacities cannot produce fuel of European quality, so it is reduced to a mere trader of imported fuels, and the situation in HZ has been known for years. Namely, our trains cannot enter the European Union, because they do not meet European standards with quality. A similar situation with investment is also the development and strengthening of local self-government. Third, higher borrowing on the domestic fiscal market resulting in a decrease in external debt. At first sight, yes. But if we remember who most of the so-called owners are. The domestic monetary institutions are public, it is clear that the thesis does not ultimately stand. Fourthly, however, the chapter on external debt could not have been avoided to say it was not reduced but only slowed down its growth. I would not, on this occasion, realise a more detailed reduction in pensions compared to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, as well as a reduction in the right of patients whose disease is used to supplement the budget, which again resulted in a blow to the pockets of the most vulnerable layer of citizens, and these are still pensioners. However, let me look at a number of examples on the spending side by individual users, programs, activities and projects. In the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, programmes and activities related to energy and energy use strategies have been implemented at less than 40% of the projected funds. Only 13% were spent to improve the pension system and 56% were spent for the Pension Fund and Insurance Agency only 56% of the planned funds. Only 52% of the plan was spent in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy for the promotion of forestry and hunting and the management and protection of forests and hunting grounds. More than 20 programmes and activities related to agriculture and agricultural products have spent between 0 and 50% of the resources, and it can be concluded that these programmes have been abandoned or phased out. I need to look at the head of sports at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It is evident that the resources of gambling have increased the budget of sports in the Republic of Croatia by 75%, but it is devastating that, for example, less than 50% of the planned funds have been spent on the school prevention programme. The Ministry of Health and Social Care has shown that the AIDS fight programme has literally dropped. In fact, only 3% of the planned funds were spent. It's similar with the renovation of health infrastructure from the program... At one stage, 45 were spent, and in the other, only 9% of the plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Programs, activities, actions for young and healthy women were followed at between 45 and 60%, but in the programme prevention of dependence on planned 10 thousand kunas for other and unremarked operating expenditures, there was no more than 15 million kuna, or 150 000 percent, not even in that house, there are all those scales as large as the size of the index. It is unclear how over 15 million could have been spent on other and unremarked expenditures planned. We also have a health system reform project in which the national drug policies and improvement of emergency medical care programmes have received only 37% of the planned funds. This is another indicator of the real intention of implementing the health reform, i.e. what kind of health reform is in practice. The situation with raising the quality and availability of social care is even worse. Spending less than 1% shows how much raising the quality of these activities and activities is real. And don't let me count on it. For these reasons and for these examples, I cannot support this state budget calculation for 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68235	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68236	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's an incorrect quote from a colleague that trains can't go to the European Union. So what EU country would not accept such trains as have been purchased through European intermediaries in South America without competitions, praised during your government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68237	Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68238	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's colleague Perman, you're here to mention some affairs about the employment of family members in the state administration. Then it's something bad or necessarily needs to be taken as bad. You need to simply as our government understand the state as one great family community then there will be no place for that astonishment of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68239	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68240	Well, here's my colleague, Anticevic, and I'm going to take your advice and really put it more as a negative example, which is an excellent example of how to reduce the unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68241	- Have we got a replicacy? - No. Okay. Honorable representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68242	My colleagues and colleagues, I really accept that in the short term, so there's not much point in speaking. Unfortunately, however, for a little longer, only a deadline will get its meaning, so I will make a few notes. I don't think it's our problem here no matter what our 10th, which is 21st hour etc., which is actually no one's interested in what we're talking about, which in the government certainly rules just satisfaction with the results we... The problem of submergement to mention a problem, our main problem is next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, in Croatia, we are not ready to face the state of affairs and the size of the challenge before us, so we cannot even begin to solve any challenge. What is our basic problem? Look out for me, the government, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ don't give you a real assessment of the situation and trends, and you have to worry about how you're being treated. Look, here I quote: "Earth growth, export growth, there was previously said for the first time last year etc. "increasing employment, reducing foreign debt, a stable year for solid prosperity." These are the estimates that are listed, quotes etc., nowhere on any issue, no challenge in this country is spoken of, in these texts, nor in any government or government statements. Name some of it, show me I'm wrong. Unfortunately, if we're not able to talk about problems, about challenges, and we're three, four, seven, eight, then we're certainly not gonna solve any of them. Think about what happened in the last three, four years, what we did in Croatia, what reform we took. We wait for the election now, we can't do one thing, because whoever moves something will lose the election. At the same time, gentlemen, the problems when you look at the more serious state of the economy, but in this country no one is even giving any sound scientific real assessment of the state of the national economy and of the conduct of economic policy, I have not read a single text for a long time. Even the economic institute is no longer in the business, we finance it... Well, the state can't survive and there can't be economic policy unless you know how to do a fair analysis of the state of things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Somebody show that kind of analysis. Look, don't mind, I wouldn't want to hold any exposure here, but today there are so many problems with employment with us, with young people and their future, with respect to debt and debt, with regard to export, market conquest, with regard to problems relating to new technologies, everything changes very quickly, to the protection of resources etc. And we're in one piece of mercilessness, full of contentment in the Balkans, in the chairs and with smiles. I'll still not pass this time like this... Inaccurate attitudes, though, just say something. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] I have to say something harder. It's about that, colleagues and colleagues, that at this point in the state, I will repeat it, in a state where no one is able to control the external debt anymore. I've said it a few times, but it doesn't matter to anyone at all. And every minor disorder completely destroys our ability to survive in our independence and to reconcile our obligations. Today we settle our debts but with growing debts in the last three years and with our incomes and with this state of export, no one in this country can say that tomorrow will be able to do so. Then where will this country be? Whose is she today, anyway? Look, external debt is always a total external debt. Of course, there is a debt of state, there is a debt of others etc. But our problem is our total external debt and it has always been and always will be, ask anyone in the world and even that IMF that you're quoting so much right now. The external debt has increased enormously over the last three years. It had already grown to high heights by then but was about 74-75% of the social product and up to 80% is considered acceptable. In the meantime, this exceeded significantly 80% and is now actually around 85%, with almost a full increase in social product for now about 200 million euros less. Whatever's going on with us, it's getting bigger, and it's already needed to pay off the debt, and it's barely enough. So you in the government have created some strategic framework for further development and you haven't noticed or mentioned it in any segment. Listen, about the external debt now, I could really say a lot more here, but the facts about it are extremely serious. And I'm just going to warn you that I'm not really talking about how much this problem is underestimating and what problems can arise within a few days. The second note I'm going to make refers to exports because it's very connected. So, all the balance sheets, all our debts, all our bills in the state settle across the seventh balance sheet, at least the way Nelson himself sketched them at not the first Nobel Prize. So this debt is growing and our exports and the possibility of returning it is getting smaller. Look, last year, there was talk of export growth last year. I've got quotes from all those who talked about it but unfortunately last year there was a trade balance deficit of $9.7 billion and it was bigger than ever. In the first three months of this year please, the trading balance deficit is 2 billion and 400 million dollars and in 2001 it was four times smaller. The incomes that we make, the lability of our incomes, their uncertainty, etc. is very serious and this situation about exports actually says that we are no longer able to produce what anyone in this world would buy. We depend on some tourism, not to crack some bomb on a beach or something, we depend on it. This is not a serious approach to national economy or environmental policy. And in the end only one more because time is running out gradually. Look, ministry colleagues talk about the progress of control, the problems of transparency that have been solved, tax revenues, etc. Unfortunately, the grey economy is not smaller and is not being treated well in this country. She's getting bigger. Second, just the last one. Look, we're talking about incomes and the effectiveness of payment, etc. I wish that were true and that we were even more successful but our total tax revenues as this report shows have increased 7.5% in 2005. They've been growing like this in the last 20 years. On the other hand, you said we'd take care of those public finances again. Again, compared to what? They used to be good, so some savages came and messed up, and now we're gonna take care of it again. And the Croatian balance sheet, general spending was hit the most in 1998 when expenditures so increased due to rising VAT revenues that no one can push them back now because of the indifference that was enormous around 2000, due to all the other problems in this regard. And so last year we have a growth in tax revenues of 7.5% and economic activity has grown 4.3% and we are now in the growing area of about 4%, we were in the 6% growth zone in 2003, which we can only dream of now. In addition to that 4.3% increase, the inflation rate of 3.3% is not 7.6 arithmetic because it is a geometric order and impact of the rate and economic activity, or the base for the collection of tax revenues, was 7.8 or 8 with enormous VAT imports, etc. and the revenues we collected were still below the level of economic activity. It's not good. Let's not underestimate the problems. Simply, let's try to see the situation and answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68243	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68244	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! The esteemed representative of his colleague, Churchvenac, stated the following. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivers incorrect data to representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the calculation of the state budget which we have received here on the benches. Well, of course that's not true, and I'm terribly surprised by Mr. Church as former minister on a claim like this. One thing is certain, and I declare this as a long-standing economicist who spent most of his life working in the economy, that this calculation of the state budget was methodologically and very well-quality and that it was publicly published to everyone, not only the representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community but also to you colleagues from the SDP and to the rest of the Croatian and world public. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68245	A fellow Churchman, obviously it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you are. Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A fellow Churchman is obviously not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68246	I appreciate your long-sightedness that I will not act according to the board but in the article In Article 209 of the article, it is clear that the Rules of Procedure are being corrected if an indication is corrected which has really not been said at all. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I have, I'll tell you what I said. Well, please, I never said [[Intruder: That would be]] that the government is sending false information to the HDZ people. [[Intruder: That would be]] God forbid, God forbid! It's me, quoting [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68247	Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68248	I respect you as a serious man at my age who really didn't mean it, but I'm telling you you don't get a real picture of the situation in Croatia. I said it. Not all of us together. The problem is, it's a quote. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68249	I've heard well that in your debate, you said that HDZ representatives don't, that they're getting incorrect information. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68250	... a real assessment of the situation. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68251	Well, a real assessment of the situation. Okay. All right, all right. Real status assessment. And respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68252	Thank you. Mr. Churchman said that, that's exactly what the government doesn't give a real picture of things and trends. I cannot agree with this, given that this government provides transparently displayed revenue and expenditures, liabilities and claims of public debt and I think that these are sufficient data for one real picture. But what I can agree with Mr. Church is that you can't conduct politics if you don't do a proper analysis of things. And very connected, and the analysis of things can't be done unless everyone has the data. This government what it has done is, therefore, that it has put in place control of quasi fiscal operations. The single account of the Treasury has been expanded and so on. But I wouldn't count it now, and I'll tell you. So for data, analysis needs data. I'll remind you of the state audit in 2003. I wrote this down well where it is said that, according to a government audit order in 2003, foreign foreign foreign exchange funds, individual long-term and short-term loans were not recorded. There's no complete data on the property. The accounting balance does not include commitments under previous years' responsibilities. So... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruders don't understand.]] And we, this one, I mean this government has all the transparent data and it can do and it's done an analysis. Until you didn't have one in 2003, and it's a state audit. What I'm saying is, you suggested, your SDP counseling club proposed after the 2003 state audit to make this government work out how to solve and remove irregularities?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68253	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68254	And this government did it on 150 pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68255	Okay. It's nihilism or not. [[The intruders don't understand.]] It's not business or non-business, niylism. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68256	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68257	A little peace between olives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68258	Shall we wait for the rest of the HDZ Club to calm down? Or is that all from the HDZ Club? [[Intruder: It's not that leftover, it's]] So I'm not going to go here on macroeconomics because Minister Schucker doesn't like to talk about macroeconomics with someone who's not an expert in macroeconomics. I don't even want to talk about taxes because Minister Schucker doesn't like to talk about taxes with someone who's not an expert in tax policy. I'll speak for that and whatever, so such an expert as Minister Shuker is for both areas, so there are probably 360 advisors in his ministry. I'll talk about three things here. First, the time when this debate is being held. Secondly, about the display method. And third, the method of explanation. I think Minister Schuker will allow me as an agent and not as a macro-economic expert to talk about it here. It's the time of the debate. In 20 hours and 15 minutes, the time for each individual hearing was up 10 minutes, which means that the debate began an hour earlier at 19 and 15. We always break up at 19 and continue the second day. No! No! When it comes to this obvious non-essential subject for the President of the Parliament, such as the report on the implementation of the budget. Because I guess the Budget is the most irrelevant document in this country and the report on its execution is such an uninteresting topic for the public that it must be led to this evening. Either, or you don't want this debate to take place in the morning at a time of direct transmission because there's something going on. Be careful that Minister Schuker is proud of this document, that the government is pleased with what he can show here, and I assure you that the President of the Parliament would end the debate at 7:00 tonight and proceed tomorrow. I'm totally convinced of that. But that's not happening. We will discuss here today without direct transfer. Not because of this, it is not important that this or that representative be directly transferred, I am not saying this, but because of the government's relationship with the President of the Parliament towards the Budget as a fundamental document of a state. Secondly, the method of presentation was already spoken of by MP Radoš. See if the Parliament adopted a single figure by adopting a budget. If he's rebalanced that figure by rebalanced that budget, and the government's kind of a regulation changes that figure, and today he's showing it here as a figure of the planned budget, then it's actually a falsification. Then here we are talking about counterfeiting, not an analysis of budgeting because these are not the figures the Parliament adopted. It's just some other numbers. These are the figures the government has changed. The government has changed the parliament's decision of the parliament's will and is now sending those figures to the same parliament, and the entire HDZ club is delighted with that. He's thrilled and doesn't understand what Mato Church says to them. Because they don't care at all, because they're happy with such numbers, because they're satisfied with any numbers, because they haven't even read any figures, and I'm going to prove it to you. Well, but forgeries can also be done in different ways. It can be done neatly and clumsyly. This one was made extremely clumsy. See page 38. special part of the 2005 budget by software users. The government office of the Republic of Croatia for associations other expenditures, planned for a thousand 651 out of 1,000 kuna, and made 24 million 453 thousand 587 kuna and 18 limes and the index of overruns by 480, means a thousand 480 percent. Now, what I'm interested in is what HDZ calls a transparent calculation of the budget, to increase spending through other expenditures a thousand 480 times, a thousand 480 index points, a thousand 480 percent. Well, look, the association can start three citizens. And then the government can give the association whatever it wants. It shall be declared an association of importance for the needs of which is important in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to give them money. Now, I wonder if these current donations are in money, because that's where the liquid money went? Ideal for buying councilman after losing local choices, ideally, ideally. Well, we didn't get the answer, and I doubt we'll get how this government so transparently on the general satisfaction of the HDZ Club spends budget money. And the method of explanation. Minister Shuker says the debt of the central state has been reduced. The representative of the Church presents the data of the CNB- and disproves it. The CNB says something different, the central state's debt has been increased. Who are we gonna trust? A minister who says it here without any evidence comes and says it. Or the CNB and their official records? Minister Shuker says your economic growth was only 5.2% for one year. Representative Linic cites data from the Statistical Institute. It was 5.6 and 5.4, I think he said so. Who are we gonna trust? Minister Shuker, who comes here and says what comes to his mind, incorrect information, I'm sorry, what comes to mind? Or Linic and the Croatian Statistical Institute? If the Croatian Statistical Institute sends incorrect information to the public, and then it is necessary to replace the director there, it should be replaced again. Or make him send information to the public as it would suit Minister Shuker. There's something you need to do. But you can't say the wrong information here just because you're a minister. Not in front of the Parliament. Maybe at the HDZ club, yeah, maybe, because they're getting every piece of information with enthusiasm. And as the Church said, they're not worried about anything in this country. But you can't help responsible people in this House. Shuker says you haven't had any privatisation income your deficit would have been. So it wasn't what it was and if it was what wasn't it would have been what it wasn't, and it wouldn't have been what it was. I mean, that's, that's the minister's explanation on the subject of budget implementation. It's a scientific method because Minister Shuker doesn't like not to talk in science. He says people who don't know about it don't make sense to talk about it. But it's a scientific statement that it wasn't what it was and that it was what was not. How's it going? It's not good. That's what's important. And who says it's not good? That's not what Stazic says. First, you're told by macroeconomic experts. Here's the Churchman. The man is a professor of macroeconomy, regardless of what his colleague is called, Shirac has a need to correct him, because Chirac is probably a macroeconomyist, he knows much better than the Church, because he is a professor of macroeconomy, not the Church, because. You're told by peasants, you're told by peasants. .../The speaker has been turned off./... The peasants tell you you didn't pay for your incentives in 2005. Minister Shuker says we did. Dear Zgrebec quotes the government document where we say we didn't because we didn't have money, the government's document. You're told by citizens that it's not good, because your citizens know it very well. And he'll tell you one more time when you're graded in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68259	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68260	Thank you very much. It's true that everything can't be fixed, but as many of these two minutes as I can afford. Although Mr. Stazic admitted that he was not an expert on the budget, it does not justify him telling the truth. And the untrues were next. First of all, it's not true that we're working for the first time in 20 hours. In your term, we worked half the night and up to three o'clock. Secondly, it's not true that this report is a falsification and it's a clumsy falsification because it's based on facts that are verifiable and this is an insult to a ministry that really works overtime. Thirdly, it's not true that you had a larger increase in gross national income than 5.2% and all statistics say that it was a maximum of only one year. Fourthly, it is not true that they spend money non-transparently because the State Audit has given a very positive report on the Ministry of Finance. And the last incorrect statement is that the HDZ Club isn't worried about anything in the state. That's incorrect, we're worried, very worried about the amount of nebuloses that the representative can tell us in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68261	The attitude towards President-in-Office on this subject is being debated at this time. A colleague, Stazic, is a relationship with the fact that the president of the parliament can't dictate when there's going to be a topic on TV and he doesn't want to, it doesn't work. Thank you for your sympathy, and I'm glad. So, this debate would have been, television stopped by half two, when, long before it started, and this tile you picked up to hurt the Rules of Procedure seemed a little late to me, but I'm going to be late with a big lice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68262	The 209th correction is incorrect. Says dr. Hebrang's audit has been positively evaluated in this. The audit hasn't even delivered a report to the Parliament for 2005 yet. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68263	And respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68264	When I consider that the reason for a lot of problems that we cannot solve because we do not have enough or I would say insufficiently high gross social product he is too small and that is why our problems in retirement, our health problems and the basic ones would be how to fight for a larger gross social product because it is the only way we will solve our problems with relative health costs, pension costs in our budget, and that is why I want to make it very clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not set a goal of economic growth. For the first time, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader spoke about the rate of economic growth a month ago when he tried to say what a strategic framework it should be and how much growth should be, for the first time mentioning that in the coming years the growth rate will be around 6 and over 6% after the three budgets of the Republic of Croatia under its leadership. Why is the rate of economic growth important? Well, the rate of economic growth is important not only because of pensions and health costs but also because it will be an opportunity for us to finally bring down that scale with 300 thousand unemployed. It will also be a reason for Croatian businessmen to raise their economic activity, to find their interest in the increased investment market in the Republic of Croatia and what is also important and what is important for 2005 will allow wage growth, and with the growth of wages and pension ratios will have to be different to that wage growth. This is what we need to understand when we talk about economic growth and the tragedy of the Croatian government is that they did not want to talk about economic growth until the prime minister opened the debate through the issue of the strategic framework. In fact, tonight, I am saddened by the fact that we are so disdainful of the growth achieved between 2000 and 2003. Although Minister Schuker also said tonight, and my colleague Hebrang repeated that you have never crossed 5.2, but only... , and the truth is statistics had to confirm and in March this month confirmed it in 2002. 5.6 Mr. Hebrang and 2003 means in election year 5.3. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the last quarter of the election race when the government didn't work, neither would I say the battle for development but the battle for votes or members of the government, however you like, and we're not going to talk openly about meeting 3.8 and meeting 4.3. We will not open a discussion about this, we will not open a real view of the failures because we did not want to talk about it, but for the first time two months or a month ago, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is talking about it, for the first time in the third year of office. Now the question remains, and could we have fought for development? Someone will say you're guilty, you've had too many state investments, but that's why there's no railway development, there's no modernisation of railways, there's nothing to be competitive about transporting Croatian goods, there's nothing to fight for that transit and service activity of Croatian businessmen to turn to seaports, river ports, airports because we're not competitive, we don't have a modern railway. We've been running away for three years from modernising railways and today, where are we? We have problems in how to structure them because the laws we have passed are difficult to implement because many of them will be losing. It's a state of railways. What to say in INA. So I come from Rijeka, I have gained my knowledge in the refinery of Rijeka, a destroyed refinery, and by the end of this year it was supposed to be the most modern in Europe according to the plans that the Hungarians signed when they took over the purchase... , signed with dates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Rijeka refinery never stood during the tourist season, the Rijeka refinery is not working today, the tourist season is, Diesel is being spent, Euro Super is being spent, but from imports, from imports. Shall we talk about the Sisak refinery? Same situation. The two refineries that were supposed to be in this 3 year most modern Europe, which had to enable the export of derivatives from Croatia, the export of derivatives we have completely abandoned. We don't have any investments. Why? What was the Government of the Republic of Croatia afraid of? Why didn't INA invest? For what? These are questions why we don't have a higher rate, why we don't have Croatian derivatives, produced from Croatian oil, and that's the best quality and even imported oil, but they had to be produced, they had to be exported, but the foreign exchange balance would be different, surely it would be different, surely, why don't we have Croatian gas? Because no connection was made between Pula and Karlovac and it was due to be completed in 2004. It was supposed to be over in 2004. Therefore, my dear gentlemen, you see, in the third year of the term of office, Minister Schucker is yelling from his bench and what you have done for your term. Well, sir, for three years in power, forget what we've done. Because I can explain, I can. In 2000, INA was Croatia's largest debtor, a company that was in front of bankruptcy on the London Stock Exchange for the reasons of the agreed economy. In four years, I wouldn't want to say that INA was the most successful company in economic performance ready to take credit for modernisation. Why should I explain it? We're not talking about the 2000-2003 period. We're talking about 2004, we're talking about the 2005 budget. We need to talk about what the Government has done in INA, what the Government has done to make our Croatian development, the growth rate bigger, that we do not depend on the import of derivatives, export energy and simply through state-owned companies such as both railways and INA, and HEP we create an investment market where Croatian entrepreneurs will work, where they will see their development and where they will create salaries for their workers. Yeah, they're not deficits, they're not government investments. These are companies that have their incomes, their balance sheets and they were supposed to fight for development, they should have done their best to make the Croatian government more successful and the rate would not then be 3.8, it would not be 4.3. I'm sure you'd be close to 6% and we'd all be far more satisfied and our foreign exchange balances would be far more positive. And that's not impossible. That's all possible. There's money. Yes, and citizens are in charge and entrepreneurs are in charge. And what were our companies doing? Some people who are head of the Supervisory Board and what you were doing until 2003. I don't know how much I can justify working in the last two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68265	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68266	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I have to correct an incorrect quote. A colleague of Linić argues that Vlda is stalling with the modernisation of refineries and the respected independent economists that you highly appreciate claim to be guilty because you have handed the right to veto MOL and that MOL is using it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68267	Final review if Finance Minister Ivan Shuker wants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, what was phenomenal in my day in some other times isn't worth anything. Apparently, no argument offered by the government is worth anything when it comes to someone else. Of course, it's nice to call. However, we were in a position when we were in opposition. However, the debates never crossed the line of good taste, it never occurred to me that I would say to my fellow Church something similar to what my colleague Stazic was saying here tonight. But when people allow themselves to argue without arguments, that's how it is. And as for the modernisation of INA, Mr. Linic, there are documents when you were chairman of the Supervisory Board, there are documents why this supervisory board had to make a decision. You'll tell your stories again. You'll also argue that you haven't sold INA practically 25% for 50% of the steering mechanism, and you'll say that because 80 million investments in an oil company don't mean anything. And 80 for a decision any investment of 80 million and more without a sixth vote in the supervisory board and without a sixth vote in the management cannot be made. I don't know, we're going to publicly publish the decisions of the supervisory board and the INA administration why the modernisation didn't start in 2003, why it was impossible to do it in 2004. It can be publicized and the two of us don't fight anymore and we don't transfer each other. It's very interesting when we talk in the towers like this, then we're very much alike in certain ways. However, when such a public appearance is to be performed, it is to be struck under the belt and without arguments. No one says that certain macroeconomic indicators of the former government were not good during the given period. They had their price. They had the price that the foreign debt with $9 billion came to $22-23 billion. This is not disputed, but also despite an increase of $14 billion in external debt, we remained at the unemployment of 325 000 and unfortunately the investment from the budget could no longer be monitored by such economic growth, there had to be something different, a different relationship between the public and private sectors and the private sector should be the generator of economic growth. It's my thinking, my understanding of economic policy. You've got a different one. You would even edit the price of INA. Well, Mr. Representative, remember the fuel price. You say there's been a social policy. Yes, there were times when only social policy could be conducted through public companies because Croatia was at war, it had so many and so many hundreds of thousands of exiles and could not have led social policy in a different way. You have not been INA, it is not true that it was in front of the bankruptcy, it is simply incorrect, raised fuel prices and what through the profits paid by Croatian citizens through the price of fuel you have come to a profit of several hundred million. Very simple and very clear. Well, that's what anyone who has all the economic logic about making themselves, and it's done. And no one is that to you. Did anyone object to that? It's not. Today when the fuel price doesn't condition some kind of government or some kind of government rule, then the problem is that fuel price, but there's something else. It is suggested to this government and the Croatian public to make some moves that will reduce INA prices on the London and Zagreb Stock Exchange by 30% and 40%, because when you go to the road show, when you promote either the state to issue bonds or promote a company that needs to issue bonds, then you have a series of unpleasant questions. One of the most embarrassing questions to those people who will promote INA on the road show now in a month when it starts across Europe will be one of the first questions whether the state has regulatory methods for fuel prices. And if you say the price of INA shares is going down because no one crazy is going to invest where the state can use some of its policies to cut off its profits in the company. Well, that's true, and that should be made clear. And we sold management rights in INA. Don't say it's not true if the contract says that for 80 million investments you have to have a sixth vote in the supervisory board and a sixth vote in the management. So we sold 50% of the management rights for 25%. Well, that's true. No one can deny that. But tonight we've accepted INAs and a series of other things to avoid the fact. That truth is to avoid the fact that the truth is Mr. Stazic's findings of state audit have been completed and for the first time the Ministry of Finance has received an unconditional assessment. And you know why? Because we've removed a series of irregularities. And I've never said or thought to say that even a fellow Churchman didn't fight it. I never said that, nor will I ever say tonight. But there was not enough political will and power that this government had to put into one account and have control over the Treasury. It takes political will. And it is not true, Mr. Linic, that this government and Prime Minister Sanader have not presented a single document on economic growth. What are three years of fiscal projections rather than presentation and evaluation of the most basic macroeconomic indicators that are the element of all government planning and even budget revenues? And in these fiscal projections, one of the most important indicators is economic growth. And you come here and say that the Prime Minister and this government never did. And for the first time, we started doing three-year fiscal projections. And if these fiscal projections also indicate an economic growth of 3.8 but is indicated. No matter what someone liked him or didn't like him. I'd be happier as a citizen, not as a minister. As a citizen, and then only as a minister and a member of a party that in my country, economic growth is 6%. And we cannot compare economic growth in Bulgaria of 6% and in Croatia of 6%. We cannot compare Bulgaria's deficit or some other Croatia. Why? Because the deficit in Croatia generates large infrastructure projects. That's true, you know that as well as I do. And I'm glad that your government has forced certain infrastructure projects that we have continued. And God forbid it's always like that. And that's just waiting for a lot of transition countries. What happened to the Hungarians? Hungarians have a 8% deficit today. They can only dream of a 3% deficit. And you can't say that fiscal adjustment isn't something that's good. Fiscal adjustment makes for discipline. Fiscal adjustment makes for reforms. And you can't make a deficit no matter what you do, and you'll see it in the interpretation that you've written everything that's the debt of Poželjka County that has nothing to do with common sense, but they have international methods that compare it. A fiscal deficit cannot be achieved without strong reforms and without cost cuts. That's true. That's true. Were you in a position to display certain costs, not display? You probably didn't. You had the inheritance of unpaid bills. Well, you can't deny that you left them, too. But also today you can't say that so many debts are in health care. They're just not that big. They're just not that big. I can document it for you with a thousand documents. That they're just not that big. "Riers" are what they are. And well, according to the international methodology, not according to mine or anyone else, you know what they are. You're saying you're hiding the data. Well, gentlemen, darlings, in the last year and a half of your term of office, you haven't issued a monthly yearbook of the Ministry of Finance, you haven't published it. Because you didn't want to betray him. And look today. You have a daily report, and you have a monthly report. If he wanted to hide something, they wouldn't betray it. They wouldn't betray it. Would you accept the amendment after three years of the Bureau of Statistics, the amendment to the gross domestic product. That's exactly what I'm wondering. We insisted that the Statistical Office must publish the final data since 2003 for the reason why we need this indicator for negotiations with the European Union. Not for breaking SDP and HDZ. It is to be a reference size that will serve us tomorrow for negotiations in the European Union. And that's why we insisted. I, as minister, insisted at the Bureau of Statistics to finally announce the size of this economic growth. And at no point did we try to cover it up. We immediately indicated in the first publications that in 2003 the deficit was not 6.3 but 6.2%, given the corrected gross domestic product. It wasn't my intention to hide anything. Why? Well, these are the successes of Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen, not politicians. They created that new value. But the same things need to be talked about in the same way. I was a representative, you were here. No, once at three o'clock, I was discussing the budget law here. So when the former president of the Parliament asked me, "Well, is it possible for you to have a colleague?" And today, when some order was taken, they would speak. I could mention the employment of some people at the Ministry of Finance who later performed some kind of, uh, judicial expertise about some weird disputes. That's not my policy style. And I don't want to say that. But it's very interesting to be attributed to the same things. It's very interesting that a man under strange circumstances began and then later did some things. But we're here to find out. Yes, an economic growth of 4.3 may not be satisfactory but at this point it is something that is Croatian reality. And let's not get carried away with it when someone says, "Let a bomb explode what kind of tourism is it going to be?" In 1999, did she show what tourism means in Croatia? And what is the vulnerability of the Croatian economy? When we didn't have tourism, we had negative economic growth. And there's no such thing as an indignation to blow up a bomb. They'll blow up the bomb and Linic and Shuker at the end of their pockets. Because there's no loser and no winner. That's where we all lose. That's where we all lose. I'll tell you one thing. I get scared when we get top news of road jams. There's traffic everywhere in the world. Ask our men who were coming back from the game in Stuart how long they traveled to Stuart? But for political purposes, we want to show that something is negative. The truth is, tourism is a generator of economic development in Croatia at the moment. The truth is that Croatia does not have a recognizable industrial product that can be produced outside. Well, that's not the result of SDP or HDZ policy. Let us remember how many large manufacturing companies disappeared by the fall of the Soviet Union, disappeared by the disintegration of the Yugoslav market and disappeared by war. And that's the same reason we have such a structured economy today. Growth in external debt, has the governor of the Croatian National Bank done everything to limit the growth of external debt? Try all monetary policies. Has the government reduced foreign debt through fiscal measures and fiscal policy? I said we didn't cut the deficit from 6.3 to 4.1 this year, probably to 3 or 3 and something small, then we'd need to borrow new 5, 6 or 7 billion kunas that probably couldn't be covered on the domestic market, but we'd have to go outside. That's the government's contribution. But I repeat this government's contribution could not have happened if there were no structural reforms and there was no savings. Were those reforms strong enough? Always the one who's in opposition will say they weren't strong enough. Can we achieve political censorship over some things that... We talked about introducing tax on tycoons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we offer an asset censorship in health reform, then you're against it. What's an asset census than a tax on all tycoons, tycoons and other things. I'm... Showing those who have high incomes that they can't just because they belong to a social group create some rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we can achieve political consensus as political parties for the good of our country in the future. Let's reach a political consensus on the property card. Why not? Let's get him. But don't introduce a tax that will be used for political reckonings. It's a danger and it will tell you all international tax experts. That's what everybody's gonna tell you. And that's the danger. It's a real danger because of our past. But unfortunately, here we are and tonight a man must emotionally sometimes argue uncritically. The same things are not called the same name. And that's what's not good. I repeat, you did not discuss the implementation of the budget before the elections for the first six months. Not once we were discussing this fellow Zgrebec, she was sitting there, there were 3, 4 of us at 11, 12 o'clock. It was known that when counterpart Arlovic sat down at the steering table that we are the ones who want to stay up to 1.2 hours calm. It was like that. That's what politics was like. This document, unlike the former budgets, is publicly available to everyone and everyone can see in every piece what money is spent in. All macroeconomic indicators are publicized. This government has nothing to hide. All international financial institutions have given assessments of the government's economic and economic policy. The raising of two credit ratings didn't happen by accident, no matter what some want to downplay. The recognition of the IMF, even though some now want to degrade it, is also said by the World Bank. The conditions under which, excuse me, the Croatian state can be in charge of the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are best said that international financial institutions see Croatia, not HDZ, not SDp, but Croatia. This is the result of some policies, not some policies, but some policies. And why are we talking about ourselves ten times uglier than strangers see us? And then we're surprised when they do, and it's just based on those incompetence assessments anyway. Last year I was after a World Bank publication in Washington last year at the annual assembly and when I spoke to the World Bank vice president who was doing this publication and when I asked him how you got to it, then this is exactly how the debate with Croatian citizens, the businessmen, led to the politicians because it was an interview. They've classified some things on that basis. And that's our problem. More times when such experts come in, the surveyors on the outside we talk to ourselves like we talked about tonight, one side writes, talks nice, the other side writes disastrously. These, of course, take this disastrously because this doesn't suit them very well. And then when we meet behind some of the ones that we have traveled to these countries, we realize that they are thousands of light years behind us, then we marvel. Instead of talking about ourselves as we are. 4.3 was the SDP's and HDZ's. That it doesn't satisfy either one or the other, so that it doesn't satisfy us, or 43%, it's human nature. But we can't say that certain results haven't been achieved. Certain preconditions have not been met, nor can we deny our mistakes and our good things. And that's why I thank you all together for the debate. I think we did a good job in 2005. In 2006, it'll be even better. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-27-0.u68269	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic. Okay. I'm closing the debate. We interrupt the session. Resume tomorrow at 9:30. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA, Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2005, HABOR for 2005 etc. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Behind that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The session was interrupted at 21.38 p.m. Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2005 Goodbye, Minister. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for an annual account. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 votes for, 4 abstentions and 18 against, the proposal for an annual reckoning was passed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the use of the 2005 budget stock is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 for, 6 abstentions and 16 against, the proposed conclusion was reached.
