ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58286	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President. I will try to present these amendments and additions to the Island Act within the time limit, given that it is indeed one important and important substance, i.e. important and important amendments to the existing law. Namely, we all know that the foundation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is that the islands are a natural wealth that is combined with their properties is of particular national, historical, economic and ecological significance and that they represent the particular interest of the state and that islands as such have the protection of the state. So they are considered national wealth, and that is why it is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These amendments to the law make up a whole series of amendments, but what is most important is that, although all the changes that we have proposed here are important and important, what is most important and what makes these amendments to the law and the recognizable is that, based on what is written in the Constitution, and also on the government's policy on the protection of national interests, we want to protect primarily small uninhabited and occasionally populated islands, let me show some uncontrolled sales, clearly, always respecting the right of ownership and not preventing owners from selling their property. But here we suggest that at the market price they first offer to the state, the unit of local self-government, so county or municipality. But I'll tell you about it later. Now I'd just like to look back on the island law that's on the principles of the National Development Program, which was adopted in '97. in 1999, and he did indeed make a major turning point when it comes to the care of islands and islanders. It was defined in that law by the interest of the Republic of Croatia with special protection of the island, as I said earlier. The islands are then classified as groups, given the demographic state and degree of development. The law introduces programming and planning for sustainable development. The ways of transport of the island are defined for the purpose of reducing the cost of islands and improving the life and standards of islanders. Various subsidies have also been defined, e.g. subsidies to public island road transport, public maritime transport subsidies. Then subsidisation of travel tickets to the island population in public island road and maritime transport and transport. Introduction of high-speed lines and vignettes, subsidies of water prices, compensation for new and existing jobs to island employers. It is one regulation that will soon go to the government, which will practically be subsidized and supported by every new open job on the island for the firm clearly registered on the island. Credits of island investors with priority conditions of HABOR, free of charge for small fishing. The team was formed, so this law was proposed, and last year, an island council was formed, a very important body. And based on this law and the basis of this law, some other measures arise, e.g. the use of a part of the income tax imposed on municipalities and cities on islands. And here, from 1.1.2002 to 31.1.2006, a total of 184 million were accumulated on HABOR’s special purpose accounts, so just over 184 million. ... four programmes worth 765 million kuna, one multi-sector project aimed at clearly improving the overall quality of life on islands and creating a prerequisite for sustainable development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Increased investment in port infrastructure. This year’s budget, which from public companies to islands invests about and even slightly over one billion kuna. So this island law is a lot of making one renaissance I'd say since it was passed to this day on the islands. However, in the implementation of these laws and after the first amendments, certain irregularities have been observed that needed to be completed, and we present here today to you, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary representatives. And what is crucial is whether it is in these changes, I said at the outset, which is that the government's view is that the Republic of Croatia needs special protection from these small, occasionally populated and inhabited islands which are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Because that's what it is to say in some way, under the supposed signs clearly, in one way or another "hazarded". The law's indetermination so far and quality changes and additions to the law, so there's a few of these things. First, the classification of the island. The islands are divided into two groups. The first to consist of a subset. And another group. Then, a new methodology for the definition of the island and their classification was adopted according to the International Hydro Organisation's recommendations. Today there are a thousand 246 islands. Of these 79 islands, 525 islets, 624 rocks and reefs, and before that, according to the National Development Programme of the island of 97, it was said that there were a thousand and 185 islands. So one difference, it's corrected. A definition of what an island is, over a kilometer of islets, cliffs and reefs. Then by defining the implementation of the programme translator from the state development of the island, we have defined this. Then the name and the extended tasks of the Committee for the Islands of the Countys were defined. Furthermore, the amendments to the Law change the question of renting buildings and housing on state-owned islands. Here we have defined the contractors of the business of managing residential buildings, apartments and businesses, business premises. We said it was a local self-government unit. Then, when it comes to game and hunting on islands, we have defined which game primarily resides on islands and issue, and who issues permits for the introduction and breeding of indigenous species for hunting purposes. I don't know, when it comes to taking out privileged HBOR loans, we simplified the process and facilitated the implementation of the loan. Furthermore, the provision on support for island employers, which is also important, is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, so that it is also amended. One provision has been redefined in accordance with the existing legal regulation which states what a Croatian island product is, and when it comes to the island council, an intelligence, i.e. the extended intelligence of the island council as one advisory body, is proposed here. So these are all improvements, I would say, which we suggest, which we suggest you clearly adopt here in this, in these amendments and additions to the island law. And now what I said at the outset that I'm going to look at later is the question of this first purchase, that is, the question that we're proposing how to protect this national wealth, how to protect the islands and who are threatened by one, let's say, the sale. Namely, such islands and islands, and we believe that everything is under a million and a half square meters, so, something, islands that are below 150 hectares or a million and a half square meters, that they are endangered. There's a total of 746 islands like that somewhere. Of this, 50% of such islands are private property, including the Kornati Islands, and the other half, 50% of such islands are owned mostly by the state, some units of local self-government and has mixed ownership. So, what this Law treats and what we suggest that this Law treats and what will ultimately tell the program which of these 746 islands are those who are of interest to the Republic of Croatia is what this bill treats. So that these amendments and additions to the Law on Islands, and regarding the introduction of the law of the first purchase and the issues to be regulated by this law, are firstly, the protection of Croatian islands from these, let's not know what word I will use, but let's say uncontrollable or inappropriate real estate sales, through the Republic of Croatia's first purchase institute and regional and local self-government units. So that's the first thing. Second, the establishment of maritime goods limits under the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports on islands where this has not yet been established. And I think we all know that the marine well-being hasn't been found anywhere. Eventually there is, somewhere partial it has been established so that this Law defines that it has to be and it has to be established. To know what is maritime good and what is unrestrained state and what cannot be clearly sold in any case. And the third thing, the state programme of protection and use of small, occasionally populated and uninhabited islands and the surrounding sea. Preserving and improving existing biological, landscape diversity, with reasonable use of natural resources in the principle of sustainability, the adoption of a specific national programme. I'll tell you later on about this state program that he is and why he's important and important. What is the procedure, as we suggest there to be a real estate sale on those islands that, let's say, are threatened by some kind of sale, etc., etc. Clearly, it is not a problem for someone to sell, or someone to buy a large island, etc. That's why we took one frame of 150 acres, so that's under 150 acres that something that we think is of national interest and that's threatened. Well, first. The owner of the property that he intends to sell, he is obliged to offer written submissions first for sale to the Republic of Croatia at the price he determines. So, the state doesn't offer any price here, but I sell a small island. I owe, clearly, if this is adopted, I am obliged, it is our proposal, first to offer the Republic of Croatia to buy it at the price I consider marketable and at which I want to sell it. After that, a state or county attorneyate must clearly determine the state of ownership and whether there is an established limit to maritime goods. Therefore, nothing can be sold before it can be established before the limit of maritime good. I said before, the owner of the property is obliged to specify in that offer the price and terms of sale, clearly. The price and terms of sale are dictated by the owner and the sea, along with the offer, clearly propose a copy of the land and other public books, a copy of the land cadastra and a copy of the Katastrian plan. If the Republic of Croatia does not accept this offer for any reason, the owner is obliged to offer this property to the county first, if the county is not interested in buying such property, then the owner is obliged to offer it to the city or municipality in whose borders the property is located. If no one is interested then, then the owner is free to sell it to whoever he wants. After receiving the offer, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to manifest itself there within 30 days. If it doesn't appear within 30 days, it means it's not interested. Then he has 30 days of city and municipality, or county, and then city and municipality. The Republic of Croatia will make a decision on acceptance and non-acceptance of the offer, clearly, will be made by the government on a proposal from the ministry. E, and the ministry will give an opinion on the acceptance or non-acceptance of the offer based on the state programme for the protection and use of small, occasionally populated and uninhabited islands and the surrounding sea. So, the first thing that must be done after the adoption of this Act is to bring a state programme of protection and use of small, occasionally populated and uninhabited islands and the surrounding sea, because it will be the state programme that will tell which islands are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and they can be of interest because of a whole series of interests, I may not know, it may be the economic interest of the country to buy, it may be the cultural interest of the state to buy this small island, it can be a natural, it can be a historical interest, it can be of particular interest, it can be of some 700, how much of these 700 islands will be of interest to the Republic of Croatia and it will be a key document on which to define whether or not the owner is going to buy it or not. The State Programme must be drawn up within one year of the date of entry into force of the amendments and addition of the Island Act. The possibility of change will also be seen through this State Maritime Good Law programme, where the criteria for establishing maritime goods borders will be further defined, and even the declaration of the ex-legation of maritime goods will be foreseen. If something of such size and so little and if surrounded and defined by maritime well-being, and there is little in the middle there is a possibility therefore it will allow the ex-legation to be declared a maritime good. What are the effects of amending and supplementing the Island Law? First protection of the island, back to the beginning, and we said that and the Constitution defined that the islands... etc. of national interest to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, one border of maritime goods on islands will certainly be established because I said nothing before is at all possible to think about selling something before establishing the limit of maritime goods, therefore it is one gain of these amendments to the laws. Thirdly, the protection of the island from the neplanic management and use of natural resources and cultural and historical heritage, the preservation of existing biodiversity and the particularities of the island's impact and the clear stimulation of the traditional economy, the cultivation of traditional island breeds, cultivers, etc., etc. We therefore hold that this will indeed be defined when it comes to islands of space and what is key to national interest. Croatia is not the only one who proposes such a law, a whole series of countries that are members of the European Union have such or similar laws. As soon as they protect certain territories they consider to be of national interest. For example, France, I do not know Slovenia, Finland, etc., etc. Some countries even have much tougher laws than we propose here, so this is in the spirit of what other EU member states are doing to protect their national interests when it comes to... I said not only when it comes to the sea, but when it comes to forests, agricultural land, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the light of the joint statement in accordance with Article 60, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in The SAA, therefore, is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. These amendments and additions to the Island Act are in line with the SAA, which is also important and what is also important to say. Here are ladies and gentlemen, I have tried in as short a time as possible, and given that this has already been written and the Government has adopted this amendment and the addition of the Island Act to explain what is proposed by these amendments and the amendments to the Law, I have clearly listed a series of amendments that we consider to be good and will improve the good Law on Islands, and the key thing is this in this Law, which is how to protect against an uncontrollable one. When I say uncontrollable I don't mean that now someone's thinking of controlling something there, but I don't know another appropriate word... Therefore, the sale, or sale of these small, uninhabited, occasionally inhabited islands, which are indeed our pearls and which are, we all agree on for sure one national treasure that needs to be protected for future generations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58287	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister argues that, therefore, in the future, ex-legislative law will determine maritime well-being and protect the islands. Mr. Minister, Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that the sea, sea coast and islands are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection, in other words, that the Constitution has already established that special protection, and therefore you can limit the right to own the law of the first purchase of the state, county and city, only it would be good to do so simultaneously so that citizens of island owners and island property could in one breath get a response from all state bodies of any state, county, city, whether they are interested in buying or not interested in buying, not that everyone has a month of time to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58289	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this is the expression of a dissuasive position according to part of the legislative proposal because in this contesting the incorrect allegations you have exposed a disagreement with the minister's position in the bill of law that an ex-legation may be established by the maritime borders of maritime goods. It is a bill, whether the law will be passed, whether it will be adopted in that part, but it is not a pardon for correcting the incorrect allegations. It's a semi-limisation with one thesis, with one claim, with one bill of law. The Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the President of the Committee, the Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58290	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 49th session held on 1 March 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands with the final draft law. The Committee discussed the proposed Law on the basis of its competence in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the debate, the Committee found that constitutional provisions prescribed that islands are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. The constitution also stipulates that it is possible, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, to limit ownership with market value compensation. So, that's exactly what my colleague Leko was saying. In this connection, the Committee supported the solution set out in the draft legislation aimed at protecting the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the law of the first time. The Committee also considers that special attention should be paid in the process of selling the island to establish the limits of maritime goods and to establish the market price of real estate in order to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the property rights of the owner of the property. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58291	Thank you. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? The Tourism Committee? For spatial planning and environmental protection? For agriculture and forestry? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected MP Mirjana Brnadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58292	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the island law. The islands have already heard us here in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is defined as good for the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. It concerns islands, concerns about economic and demographic recovery, environmental protection, and the government continued to work on the former government's efforts to take a number of measures to improve life on the islands. For the sake of accurate insight what this government has done in its current mandate for the development of the Adriatic islands, we at the HDZ Club want to present what is most important. The 2004 State Budget provides funds for the development of Adriatic islands totalling 202 million and 703 thousand kuna and 214 million kuna in 2005. In 2006, 187 million and 600 thousand kuna were secured in the budget for the Office of the Islands. A total of 220 million 798 thousand kunas have been spent for the development of the Adriatic islands over the past two years. For the construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities through the CEB4 programme, 129 million 555 thousand 322 kuna were spent. For subsidies to companies outside the public sector over the past two years, 65 million 679 thousand 263 kuna has been paid. In the past two years, works have been launched to design and build four new ports, several existing ports have been built up, asphalting, rehabilitation and reconstruction of island and local roads, Polish and forest roads, and state roads in Cres, Krk, Mljet and Korčula have been reconstructed with Croatian roads. You will agree that water supply is one of the most vital problems of our islands and in these two years, water supplies of Suska, Krk, Rab, Ugljan, Pasman, Dugi Otok, Mljet, Korčula, Brac, Hvar, Elafita and Lastova are being completed or resolved. The resolution of 16 drain systems on our islands has begun. 25 school facilities were either built or renovated, or reconstructed from CEB4 and CEB5. Significant means have been invested to build or upgrade and equip health homes. The funds for adapting and equipping homes for elderly people in Vela Luka, Korčula, Krka, Mali Losinj, Ugljana and Mljet are provided. The funds for the helipad are also provided in Cres, Rab, Blato and Zlarina. Funds have been provided for the purpose of island sustainable development for the management of waste for kindergartens, for churches, entrepreneurship zones, agriculture, culture and sustainable development programmes. Subsidies to companies outside the public sector amounting to 65 million kuna 679 thousand have been spent on subsidies to public road and maritime transport of pupils, students, pensioners and to supply island households with drinking water, hydrogen or tanks which are not connected to the water supply system. In addition to all of the above, the Islands Act indirectly allowed local self-government units to deposit on special accounts at HABOR funds granted to them by the State in income tax and for the construction of capital investments. The Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Institute of Education and Croatian Waters, developed a project titled "Build building of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands project CEB4" adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in July 2004 and adopted by the Council of Europe Development Bank in November 2004. The value of this project is 386 million 728 thousand 742 kuna and consists of five components, water supply and disposal, health care and social care, education. The Croatian Parliament also discussed the project. Therefore, the total investment of all ministries and public enterprises in 2004, in infrastructure and grants without credit, passed a billion kuna annually. Of the other activities that are certainly equally important for all islanders, I would like to highlight the decision of the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development on the reduction of the price of tickets of passenger and freight vehicles for islanders on all state lines. In 2005, the ministry divided some 46 thousand and 700 vignettes. In the 12th month 2004, the island of Brac was established for the first time by an island council tasked with giving opinions and initiatives to further develop the island. In order to adopt a strategy for the development of nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia, a study of the development of nautical tourism is under way. This government, in order to systematically implement the island development policy, implement all activities and projects, aims to improve living conditions on islands and thus the economic power of the island's population, and all in order to ensure sustainable development of the island and equate its development with the development of other regions in the Republic of Croatia, and to stop the depopulation and encourage the demographic restoration of the island. In this atmosphere there are also amendments and additions to the Law on Islands and a series of newspapers that will surely be welcomed by all islanders, which the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development presented in his opening presentation. We at the HDZ Club welcome the amendment of Article 10 where disabled persons are entitled to cash compensation for their own transport costs because they cannot use public island road transport services because of their disability. It is good that the islands are not allowed to bring and grow feral pigs and other species of large game for island hunting, such as the coal and bear, because we have witnessed that these animals have caused enormous damage to agricultural cultures, that farmers have used poisons that they have destroyed and other species that don't really bother them. We're witnessing dead soups that were killed by wild boars, not because the soups were about to be wiped out. In the HDZ Club, we keep the provision of Article 21 of the amendment and supplementation of this law strategically because the same article introduces the right to purchase and limit legal traffic. Croatian islands, these Adriatic pearls are set on fire for rich Europeans. In order to prevent uncontrollable sale of real estate, we welcome these provisions which determine the right of first purchase of property on small occasional inhabited and uninhabited islands in the Republic of Croatia primarily and then the county or city or municipality. Therefore, the owner of the property is obliged to offer first his real estate for sale to the Republic of Croatia at the market value that he has determined. If the Republic of Croatia is not interested in buying the property in question, the owner will offer the property for sale to the county, the city or municipality, and only if they are not interested in the purchase will the owner sell to another person but only under the same conditions and for the same or higher price. I must say here that these first-price provisions are welcomed by all the citizens with whom I have contacted and commented on the amendments to the Island Law. We are witnessing that our coast, including the protected area of maritime goods on islands and land, is almost daily devastated by illegal construction. If other countries have the right to protect their most important interests, and this was done by Finland, Germany, Greece, Estonia, Slovenia, France, then we have the right but also the duty. In addition to protecting our treasures, it is high time to record the full state of affairs, to write down all islands and islands, to establish ownership, to set the limits of the maritime good in accordance with the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. To carry out an audit of the evaluation of space and install it into spatial plans. To protect the Endenian sites and so on and so on. The HDZ Club therefore supports the adoption of amendments and additions to the Island Act which will contribute to the effective management of island wealth, will contribute to the conservation and promotion of existing biological and landscape diversity, the establishment of maritime goods borders and prevent inappropriate sale of real estate on small and uninhabited islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58293	Thank you. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58294	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear gentlemen from the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport, development and so on. This amendment of the Island Act usually comes for discussion in the Croatian Parliament without reporting on the implementation of the Island Law. For the last time in this high house, we discussed a report on the implementation of the Law on Islands far away in 2002, and that is how far I know it was the only time that the Parliament discussed the implementation of this extremely important law. In this Law, it is mentioned in all versions of both the 1999 version and the 2002 version and this present dozen programmes. So if the Croatian state ladies and gentlemen is funding some dozen programmes concerning these 1,000 islands where 100,000 people live in really difficult conditions then it is good for the Parliament to get a report every couple of years on how the Island Act is implemented. Unfortunately, this amendment of the law goes without that report, and that is my basic criticism on behalf of the HSP Club of the Resent Ministry. This law actually has several basic characteristics. One thing is, that is, the ideas that are presented here are the most interesting three for us. So it's the right of first purchase or protection from the sale of small islands. It's the abolition of the ship's lines from this law, their transfer to the Lineship Transport Act that the note has not yet been adopted and we don't know which variants it will be adopted in. And the third is the introduction of alochton so foreign savages to the islands. Let me look first at this story about protecting against selling the island. So, look, Mr. Ministers, the club of HSP representatives sent the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Ownership and other real rights of the Republic of Croatia to the Parliament on 28 May. In the name of HSP, this law was defended by Mr Djapic in Parliament. I spoke on behalf of the club, he on behalf of the promoter, and that law was rejected by the Croatian government. I have this Croatian government reluctance although we had the same solution in our hair as you are now offering. So I'm terribly glad that after two years the Croatian government comes to the same positions HSP then offered It is, it may be a sign of approaching, and it may simply be a sign that any initiative that HSP makes in the procedure will then be accepted by the Croatian government. [[Intruder: It's a close sign.]] That might be a good sign. But joke aside. I really don't understand where the euphoria with that solution that was mocked two years ago as unrealistic or two years ago, could I quote you as saying it was what the HSP proposed contrary to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and today there is a finding that we were then claiming that this was fully in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement because simply Article 60 does not apply to public good, and the statement on Article 60 is also until Article 52. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement clearly declares that if there is a public interest that a certain type of control or restrictions on sales may be introduced, even if that is the right of the first purchase. But well, after two years, we have come to this point that our initiative has come to life and we hope that it will indeed be accepted in Parliament. So much for congratulating the law. And now we move on to a series of criticisms of the law. So I really don't understand why everything relating to maritime transport here is being transferred to the Law on Lineship Transport when that law has not yet been adopted. We do not know in which variant he will be adopted, so we allow the Croatian Parliament to give its word on the Law on Lineship Transport in the part relating to the islands, and then we propose to amend this law on the basis of the amendments adopted, that is, the new Law on Liner Maritime Transport. Therefore, it is also not good to get out of this law parts guaranteeing the subsidized ticket, as far as shipping is concerned, and to deal with it in that second law. The point of the Island Law is that in one law, we have in one place everything about the state's relationship to the islands, not to patch it up from different laws. Let it stay here and let similar articles be repeated in the Law on Lineship Transport. But here must be what is the foundation, and a line ship's transport can, of course, be called to this law in part when it comes to sailing. But what's just as strange is this whole game of game and hunting. So there is, of course, a certain little game that can be introduced. I don't know what the purpose of bringing mongooses to the islands is. They're as much as I know one Indian animal, but they never existed on the islands until they were artificially introduced. And I really don't know why someone would bring them into the islands when they devastated indigenous species of animals on the islands themselves. It is also really unclear what is the purpose of bringing muflon, i.e. deer shovel, deer axis to the islands. And now, watch out here, it's said that in fenced hunting grounds and breeding sites there's going to be muflon, deer shoveler, deer axis. Look, they can get away from those growing sites, that's quite clear. Secondly, if it's about fenced hunting grounds on the islands, we're going into a really interesting historical precedent here. So let me quote here parts of the Statute of the Hvar Community, thank my colleagues Peronji and others who have published this document, are similar provisions in other statutes, our communities on the Adriatic. But nowhere in the Statute of the Hvar Community, which is something that has been grinding for centuries and based on what Hvar has worked for 500 years, it is not said anywhere that part of Hvar is being built as a closed hunting ground where no one can enter and where there is a fence that nothing can get out of it. Okay, well, there's no mention of hunting elephants here, but about the same thing. Maybe we'll introduce it into some law. So why didn't the island communes introduce these fenced hunting grounds? Because the island is small and because islanders who are otherwise obsessed with feelings of isolation would not accept another part of the island being fenced from free communication. And that's why none of the communities here have ever entered their statutes. Of course, there were fielders who controlled the situation in the fields. There were gustalds who controlled the state of the shepherds, i.e. sheep and goats on the islands, but no one ever had any hunters who controlled specially fenced areas. Especially fenced areas are nothing more than feuds where some feudal people buy themselves parts of the island by making it a historic precedent that never existed in the history of the islands, as now we would like to say "Mazukeli" on Hvar, on Pellegrin. And that's why it's all the same you want to do open or closed hunting grounds here. Either way, the effect is catastrophic. In open hunting grounds, it's clear, everything's going to come out and like the boars some wise man brought back in the '70s, they've taken pity on all over the island of Hvar. And it's really interesting when a man goes to the olives, so he finds traces of boar and waits for them to fly at you. And secondly, it is really unclear to whom deer shovelers will serve, except I say one narrowly privileged group that will isolate one part of the island for all its interest and entertainment, which I repeat the historical precedent that no one has ever made on the islands and indeed does not need this government to work. You really shouldn't. I understand the needs of hunting tourism, but there are a whole series of other things that can be hunted instead of a shovel deer or an arsenic deer. Of course, when you read the status of the Hvar community, or other communes, then you find more interesting things that were not even considered to be introduced into this law. But, of course, with our amendments, we can't make legal changes except for those that the ministry predicted I'm giving you as a suggestion to think. First of all, in those statutes of our communities we talked about the port fees paid to those who sail in those ports and those fees remained on the islands. So it was already a cover of port administrations on the islands themselves. In our island statutes, it is said that revenues from sales taxes remain in the community itself. And that's one of the suggestions for thinking, given the terrible traffic that happens especially in the summer. It was a kind of fiscal decentralisation. So you should think the same thing, not just about deer shovels. Also, here when it comes to programs that you will encourage on the islands. In point 7 of Mr Minister, Article 17 relating to Article 27 discusses the development of a pre-school education and primary and secondary education programme on islands. So I'm asking you to take into account the fact that a significant number of children from the island go to high school on land. To work very rare shipping lines that are two to three times a day from distant islands must live in these land areas, and since they do not have an X-ray, they cannot enter the student cafeterias for food. And then they feed somewhere. I really don't see any reason why this government, that Minister Primorac, whose authority it is with your support, does not introduce Xs and those little islanders who learn in secondary schools in Split, Zadar, Sibenik, Dubrovnik, etc. Also, in point 6, we're talking about telemedicine development again. I'd be happy to talk about the development of island health homes and decentralisation of emergency assistance. And also in point 4, there's talk of electricity on each island. It is, it may seem strange to someone but you have inhabited islands where there is no electricity in all parts. It's like the island of Drvenik Veli. I was there, I couldn't believe it, but there's no power on Wooden Welle in all parts. It happens in the 21st century. And so no one should be surprised that it's standing here in point 4. Of course, it would be good for a broader discussion, such as the report on the implementation of this law, to discuss other topics that affect the island. On how the Government's regulation on the protected coastal area is implemented on the islands and where this leads. How the islands manifest the fact that Serbia's Mic sells its properties on Croatia's territory per mic. On Cres, a huge complex of tens of thousands, of several tens of thousands of squares. On Hvar "Zencise", all of this is on the marine good, i.e. they sold Struklja which I guess he can't use because the whole Jakalj is a good sea. That's what we should have talked about here. Unfortunately, not under this law, there should have been a special report on this law, but what is also important to mention here is the fact that, with the island council at the state level, it would be good to have an island council at the county level composed of representatives of all the island mayors, that is, the mayor of municipalities on the one hand and, on the other hand, legally prescribe the obligation to create island coordination. We have atomized units of local self-government on islands that often communicate poorly with each other. If you think any problems on the islands can't be solved from just one place. In Brač, this coordination is good, in Hvar, some kind of, in other islands I don't know, but it would be good if it were a legal obligation and it was discussed in this law. Unfortunately, these changes are not here in this legal text and neither our club nor other clubs can intervene for business restrictions. So with all due respect, we've considered this law, we don't understand why certain provisions were introduced into it. We'll try to make amendments to it, but we're not happy with the proposed changes. I also don't understand why this took an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58295	Thank you. A SDP representative club, a respected representative and vice president, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58296	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. We at the SDP counsel club first of all estimate that it is a real shame that this law is not being discussed in two readings. Because if there was a discussion in two readings then we could open up some more questions that obviously came after a few years of applying the Island Act as you know it's been six years, or seven years, to be examined, so perhaps in relation to how the law applies and what problems and failures have been observed, to possibly change and supplement. Secondly, we support the idea that real estate on our islands in full, but not only on small islands and cliffs of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, as the law says, try to protect themselves because we believe that they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, besides the island law itself, was adopted to resolve the interest of the Republic of Croatia in this issue, as well as the question of life, return, rest and ultimately the development of the island, the population on islands and the development of the island, or the sustainable development of our islands. However, some of these solutions that are offered here in this regard are considered insufficient and can be viewed in a substantive, of course, formal, of course economic, social but also political-legal way. So let what may be most important, let us first of all go. The most important thing for us is the amendment relating to the head's right to buy and limit legal traffic and these are Articles 35, 35a., 35b., 35c., 35d. First, we believe that, when it comes to real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, the same treatment with such properties as this amendment and the addition of laws must also have property owned by units of regional and local self-government, and in this respect we believe that the provision laid down in Article 35 should not only apply to real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia but should also apply to the property of units of local and regional self-government and, in this respect, to prohibit such alienation, i.e. that these properties can only be given in concession or temporary lease, and in this context we will agree on one amendment and offer to the Assembly for discussion and decision on it. The second thing that we think is important to fix and regulate is actually one issue that has its constitutional importance, we are not sure that it is possible to end up correcting it until the vote on this law on the amendments themselves, because it should actually include perhaps making one or two more articles, but it would have to be led by a more account promoter. What's this about? It provides for the practical right not only of the first purchase but also for the conditions and criteria of the exercise on the one hand the right of the first purchase, on the other hand that the owner of the property must behave or that this would be precisely stated in our Constitution in Article 50(2), is practically limited by the corporate freedom, i.e. the property rights of these owners. Not only do they have an obligation under the law to sell first under equal conditions the real estate of either State, whether regional or local self-government units, but they would, before they have any intention of selling, have to send the offer to the State first, then if the State refuses to send the same offer to the local self-government unit and so in that property in accordance with Article 35a. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Now it's very interesting how they'll know what the offer is and what the demand is if they don't examine it. So they would have to have the first chance to make at least an invitation ad or a tender for some real estate for which a price could be given in order to examine what the price is, and in fact all those buyers who could appear with the offered price know in advance by the law that they can't buy it because it's the only price they actually have to offer the owner of the property to the state. In such a situation, the question arises, how to first establish a market price, secondly how to compensate if it is not an objective but subjective criterion, given that certain things are pre-known, compensation, i.e. a market fee to the owner by the state, i.e. a unit of local self-government, and in that system it is very important to see this issue in fact to ensure the principle of justice, then the principle of market value and, of course, the constitutional principle of respect for the Constitution. In this context, an additional question relating to Article 35b arises in particular. It makes it clear that if the State does not buy within 30 days, then that right first goes to a regional self-government unit which, within the next 30 days, can, in the next 30 days, so in the next 30 days, it also passes to the city, or to the municipality within 90 days, all according to the competent ministry. But if all of this happens or one of these entities does not exercise the right to buy first then the real estate owner can actually sell that property to a third one, but not below the price he sent to the state, or unit of local self - government. What if all these circumstances that show, among other things, that it is not a state or local self-government or regional self-government, and then it shows that there is no special interest in the state and unit of local self-government. And if there is no particular interest, then the State will not achieve part of its programmes in relation to the achievement of special interest and sustainable development of our islands in accordance with Article 17(1), points 1 to 13. Therefore, why should other customers in such a situation have a special interest in buying it? Then there is actually a decline in the value of this property, a drop in prices, and then a question arises. First, as we can then prescribe that he must sell according to what he offered the state, he indicated in the offer when the market price fell due to behaviour, such behaviour by the state of the unit of local or regional self-government. And secondly, who will make up for the difference that was in market value at the time of the offer? Yes, it is, therefore, something that is completely unsettled in Article 35a, b. So if you will, in the far line and in Article 35c, which I will say about something later as a third problem. So this is a question that can't be left unsaid like this. It must be developed, in fact, in accordance with the Constitution, to ensure the protection of the constitutional right of the owner, on the one hand, and on the other hand to ensure that the state, or units of local and regional self-government, has a special interest that this particular interest can be operationalised. As for Article 35c, he then says: "The first particle to the sea or the first congratulatory from the coast of the particle must not be subject to sale until the limit of maritime good is established in accordance with special law". Now, if the border of the maritime good has covered the first particle to the coast, then that's fine. But if we think that we can set a special law, as the minister was saying, to further expand the maritime goods in relation to what the Law on the Sea Good says, then the question is, in fact, whether we are creating a prerequisite by this law that some new law can be passed under this Law which will actually be amended and complemented by that specific Law on the Sea Good. I think on behalf of our club that we need to coordinate our opinion because it's not to the end correct. This Law should then indicate how much this is an area that should be considered a maritime good when it comes to the protection of these islands and islands, i.e. real estate on these islands and islands which have a character of the special interest of the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't have to be those six meters, it can be more, it can be, it should be said now. And this should now be pointed out in a way that the law, in this Law, prescribes what this content of this particular interest includes and how to then regulate by, the maritime goods border and, in that case, we would have the basis to then say that such properties cannot be sold, or put into legal traffic. The next group of questions that we want to point out are related at first glance would say, to the formal number of questions, and actually refer to both content and form. First, it should be said that, in relation to Article 16 of the amendment and the addition of the Law, which states in paragraph 5: "The Ministry and the Croatian Employment Office referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall deliver an opinion to the Ministry within 30 days of the date of receipt of the Law. In the event that the Ministry and the Institute do not deliver an opinion within the prescribed time limit, it is considered that they do not have any objections to the proposal." However, before that Article in paragraph 4, it is said that the Regulation will adopt the terms, criteria and heights of the way by the Government, and according to the article, again in the transitional and final provisions, Article 26 of that Regulation should be adopted within a year. If you take that those deadlines will not start putting up real estate within the next 90 days. You take this to get an opinion within 30 days, then the question is actually what is the matter with this regulation, and the regulation sets out the essential content on which to deal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now allow me to say, in particular, Article 17(1), paragraph 13. Namely, it says that the state programme of planning, ownership and the size of the record of land books on islands, etc., will be a special state programme. Point 12 states that the state programme for the protection and use of small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands should in fact be considered as a special interest to which 35a, b, c and d applies, etc. At the same time, it says in the transitional provision of Article 26 that the rules to be adopted by the government and the resolution ministries will be adopted within a year. What does that really mean? This means that we will pass a law which de facto whose application is delayed for the next year, and we are passing it by emergency procedure because no implementing rules for its implementation have been adopted. Or even more precisely, they do not have to be finished, until one year brought or can be brought immediately if they are properly prepared and... The further question that is also, here in Article 20, is particularly important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, in paragraph 2, which states the regulation on the way, the amount of compensation, the term of lease of buildings, apartments, and the terms of lease of a special one owned by the Republic of Croatia on the islands is brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the government brings, but the transitional provision says within a year. Now, will it bring tomorrow, in seven days or in a year's time, and the experiences show, unfortunately this House has it in mind that the largest number of implementing rules when the Parliament empowers the Government to adopt implementing rules for law enforcement are often late. Many have not yet been adopted in some other segments and many are later brought in, brought in a way that changes the content of the law itself. And that's why we have to pirate in this case to the cold because it's of special interest and it's worth taking care of. And why should you especially pirate to the cold? It is necessary, among other things, to see in Article 35b, paragraph 4, which states among other things: "In exceptional cases, in accordance with the state programme referred to in Article 27(1). ... the law, the benefit of the Republic of Croatia for its special interest, can be approached by the granting of real estate on the islands referred to in Article 2(2) of the second indent 2, with the capital letter "Laws in accordance with the Law on Execution". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means, if the law means a capital letter, then it means the law in force, and in the applicable law there is a point in point, in this Article 2 paragraph 2, but there is no indent 2, you know? In force of the law. There's just an item two, no buts two. This indent 2 appears in this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law amending Article 2 and in fact the item and in particular paragraph 2 is entered in which it is introduced in addition to underdeveloped and undeveloped islands, and in particular small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands as indent 2. Therefore, in fact, one should have prescribed here, and now one who would have passed the regulation if questions like this had remained unsaid, he doesn't really know which legal text should be elaborated and done. That is why it is very important, and it is especially important to point out something else now. The whole law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, referring to the Law on Islands, and here a new category of interest is introduced which it says is due to its special interest. Now these small islands are occasionally inhabited and uninhabited of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, all islands are of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and should now be determined what and when this particular interest is considered to be to limit ownership rights and to act in accordance with 35a, B. and C., respectively, which is not fully worked out, and we warn for one reason why not only our islanders will react to this rightly, but, of course, the judicial and executive bodies that will have to act in the exercise of these restrictions and these rights. Of course, it is particularly interesting that some issues are not trusted that the government, or ministry, regulates them by regulations, but by rules. Therefore, between the rules on composition and the tasks of the committee relating to the Committee on the Control and Management of Island Development, a whole series of things should be developed which are quite interesting and which, in the nature of the matter, in the case of matter of interest for the Republic of Croatia and of particular interest, should not be the matter of the Regulation and, in particular, in the case of Article 10(3) relating to such a rule on the conditions and criteria and the way of labelling... Croatian island products are prescribed by the Minister in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, the Director of Intellectual Property and with the previously obtained opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and the Ministry of Health is not included at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be elaborated, it should not be a rule that will be passed by ministers, I personally think because it is of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and of particular interest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should bring it and it should have such importance that this product actually raises to such a level that it has a special sign of Croatian quality, of interest to the Republic of Croatia and to all... Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58297	Thank you very much. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58298	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues, fellow ministers. Before I even begin my debate on the Island Law, I will read you a memo, or part of a memo that I received from the Eco Kvarner Association, I assume you have received from the rest of the MPs, just to maybe create a picture of how this Law was proposed to us. "Here is the name of the Association of the Kvarners, which consists of associations of shepherds, olivers, winemakers, traditional societies, environmental associations from the Kvarners area, we send you this quickly because we are caught up with this proposal because no one has contacted us or asked us for an opinion or previously discussed this Act with us. The basic facts for which we oppose the proposal to be included in the Island Act in Article 13." etc. I'll talk about it later, so here we have one piece of evidence that the Ministry hasn't contacted the island's representatives that they're saying something about amending and supplementing this island law. Secondly, the law is passed by emergency procedure, and the accompanying document has time to bring in over a year, so I wonder why the emergency procedure? We all know that the Republic of Croatia is a country with a thousand islands, we have become famous in the world for the beauty of our coast and island, so this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act would be commendable if it was not full of contradiction, bad solutions and which leads us to doubt that it is proposed in good faith and good intentions. In this assembly, we had the opportunity in the last session to conduct a debate on line and occasional coastal transport where it proved that this Law was not good, and that negotiations between the government, the maritime union and the Mare Nostrum association were still held, meaning with representatives of the island who know what life on the islands means. Although the shortcomings in the previous law have been demonstrated, this Bill proposal has already said in the assessment of the situation that the islanders would be guaranteed the quality of the island's integration with the mainland and the island, and all for the purpose of economic and demographic renewal, as well as the promotion and development of the island and the improvement of life of the island's island population's island rights in maritime transport have been defined and achieved through the provisions of the Island Act for more purpose of implementation, have been transposed into the Final Proposal for the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. All the pre-conditions to be provided before the adoption of this Act are neither achieved nor achieved. For example, the most important thing is that we have a marine goods cadastre, and we know very well that we do not have it, we need good transportation, good health care of islanders, all economic preconditions, a lower rate of island residents, of course decentralisation in all segments of life. I will only give you an example for the islands which are naturally inhabited that the promotion of sport on the islands in 2005 was 150 thousand kuna provided for in the 2006 Budget zero kuna. So much for developing sports on the islands. Bringing such a law just to make the state the owner of the island really questionable. Are we really as rich as a state to buy our own properties that no one can take anywhere anyway, but good if the state is thought to be the owner of it? The second question is how much will it cost our citizens, or our taxpayers, or on the other hand, perhaps that the state itself declares itself to buy the island, and that all owners will in some way refuse and not buy those islands. The question arises, on the other hand, whether the state has no place to spend money, is foreseen by this law somewhere around 500 million. Which would not be better if that money were spent on health care, on health care reform, on pensions, on pension reforms and on all the other problems that we have in society, or to realize that it is not the essence of the first, but to create development programmes for these islands, and to spend 500 million on development projects and everything that our islands need, and then we will see how our islands will develop. In my opinion, this Law also introduces some unnecessary restrictions. For example, in order to delete the words ‘inhabited’ in Article 1(3), of course they are occasional and on these islands they need to be kept occasionally. If anything else during the tourist season when on these islands the whole family is on duty for 24 hours and working in tourism because of course many tourists come to them to take a bath, eat and drink with yachts on the islands. Likewise, these island owners would also be engaged in livestock that has not been available to them lately. Well, gentlemen, let someone think of what your island owners will live on. The question is, why is that? I think that through Article 35d. It's kind of visible. I think some people could get their hands on a fortune like this. The state will buy an island. True, through Article 35d. the State cannot sell the island further, but through a form of lease or concession there is no legal provision that would regulate the length of the lease or concession. In this way, it can be misused by the rental or concession institute and granted to someone a concession or 99-year lease for cheap money, which I think is just the same as selling the island. Another issue visible from this law is the state's attitude to local and regional self-government and there is, of course, still centralisation. This is shown in Article 18 of this Law. We can read it. Article 18: "The annual amount of funding for the implementation of the national programmes referred to in Article 27 shall be considered as follows: The law on insurance in the budget of local and regional district self-government on the basis of a decision of the representative bodies." It means that the state will bring programmes and units of local self-government will have to provide funds for the implementation of these programmes. I think another problem is something Mr. Tadic has found around alochton savages on the islands themselves. I come from Primorje-Gorski County where in the last four years, islanders have really had problems with such savages. As I said at the beginning, I have already been contacted by the Kvarner Association, who claim that all the positive regulations and declarations of biodiversity and the laws of the European Union prohibit the introduction and residence of alochtonous game on islands, as well as in fenced hunting grounds. Huntings with alochton savages do not come into consideration on islands or in fenced hunting grounds because it is incompatible with the tourism that we want to develop on islands. We want eco tourism, ethno tourism where people will be able to walk, climb and enjoy indigenous island products. Any shooting, harassment, killing because hunting and killing whatever hunters call it a different name and through their hunting tourism is not an acceptable form of island tourism. Even though the hunting grounds have been fenced, there will always be some alochton savage who escapes them and does inexplicable damages because someone will not have enough money to maintain the fence, someone will be careless, someone will deliberately release the game from the fenced hunting grounds and the like. And that so far is best confirmed by previous experiences from the island of Cres. There's obviously something wrong with this hasty proposal. There was no previous debate, nor were all sides of those whom life concerned involved. Today there were also sheepmen from the island of Krk. They're desperate and protesting. The best thing would be right now. Same for the sheep, yes, because we have a bear on the island of Krk. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Perhaps it would be wise to consider accepting all the suggestions, supplementing them. I hope that the amendments will also be accepted through Article 35 where the right to concession and not only of the state, but also of the local self-government unit, means the county and municipalities and cities in order to prevent manipulations in the trade of the island, because we now also have trade without state units of local self-government, and it seems to me that through this form is also included in the real estate and the state itself and also in some way local self-government units. It seems to me that this law is passed to satisfy some who believe that islands must be state property, perhaps yes, I don't know. But to keep this law on the declarative level because it sounds good we don't give our own, we don't give our own country, we don't give our own islands, and it seems to me that neither the state nor the local self-government units have that money to buy the islands from those owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58299	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58300	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Two laws have been passed I would say a series of positive changes in the Primorje-Gorski County from which I come and these are the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on Islands. That is why I particularly agree with my colleague Tadic when he said it was a great shame to change, a few months ago we changed the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and now the Law on Islands and we had no report on the implementation of these laws on our benches, on their effectiveness in order to determine whether these are really the directions in which we have to change these extremely good laws. Another complaint from the Croatian People's Party Club is that we have not consulted local and regional self-government this time. This vertical communication always spoils us, needlessly scribbles, and that is why often complaints are given, we do not need to repeat ourselves because we do not do what we might do in preparation for such amendments and additions to the Law. Third, the island council. Do you know colleagues and colleagues that the Island Council has not met at all to discuss these amendments and amendments to the law? It's not. Very strange. And what should be more important for the island council if not the island law? I can't think of any other law that would be more important. But that's not what happened. There's also a number of companies. There are associations of citizens that we could and should have appreciated because some of them have really made major shifts, made great efforts to make life on the islands finally happen. What I would just like to say in short and Mr. Minister said in his opening appearance that these changes are essentially directed primarily towards real estate sales, employment, promotion of production, prices of ferry tickets, first purchase, alochton savagery and so on and so on and so on not to repeat myself. However, I must say that in the opening statement that we have received in writing some of these evaluations of the day are truly flat-rate, quite unprofessional and certain that we cannot be satisfied with these arguments and so let me just touch a few specific examples here. I, by the way, and on the benches you got, gave you four amendments that I hope will be respected and concern the following parts of these amendments and additions to the law. As far as ferry transport is concerned, it has already been said here that something should not have happened. We have not yet adopted the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. We don't know what or how it's finally going to be in that law, and here we've already thrown out some items, some articles. In particular, this refers to Article 10 of the Law, the current Law on Islands from which we enter the new law without a few articles and articles. In particular, this Article 10 has been said to be transposed into the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. This happened with paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of the current law. But item 3, which is the most crucial, has been completely omitted. So if it's done on purpose, then it's obviously done with the goal of tricking our islanders. That's why we suggest that you... The provisions relating to maritime transport leave the islanders in the Islands Act in the form of which it is currently present. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, with regard to hunting, a list of small and large game animals that are allowed to grow on islands is introduced in the bill of law and in that part that processes hunting on the islands. So it is suggested that deer and mufflons can be held in closed hunting grounds on islands. And the explanation is indeed bizarre. It stands, and I read, "For we now have in the whole series of farmed game and fenced hunting grounds on the islands." And we know how that happened. A few dozen years ago, someone in a committee decided to offer tourists another beautiful party on the islands, so wild pigs, deer and so on were transferred to Cres, Lošinj. And now we're practically amnesting that condition, accepting it, agreeing with it. That's absolutely not acceptable. If there were any communication between the proposings and our islanders, they would, and for years and years, try to explain how much damage these savages have caused, it would not have entered this bill. But there was no communication, of course. I'd just read it. Thus, the existing Law on Islands in Article 13 states that the islands prohibit the introduction and breeding of savages that do not naturally reside on the island. Believe it or not, that article was thrown out of the draft of the new law. And about that, I'd say something very interesting. In this part of the bill, I should say that Article 13(4) reads: "The ministry will ensure the implementation of measures to remove and reduce the number of savages whose introduction and cultivation on the islands is prohibited or which cause disproportionate damage to agricultural production. Now there are two things that are completely unclear and should be defined for sure. We can't leave them like this. If something is forbidden by law, and here it is suggested that it will try to remove or reduce. The word cut doesn't hold water. It can only be completely removed in order to respect the letter of the law. So we can't leave it and I'm asking the minister that we really don't play here because we practically question the law ourselves without respecting it. And finally, which means disproportionately great damage? Undefined again. Leaving room for something again. For a peasant who has 10 sheep, if a savage destroys six or seven sheep, it's a great shame for him. If someone has 500 or 1000 sheep, then seven sheep may not be disproportionately large damage. So let us not allow such things to enter the law and later clearly argue over how to interpret the letter of the law? As for island products and encouraging island employers clearly I asked the islanders, they agree and so on. They agree. But they have one question and it concerns agricultural producers or large companies whose headquarters is not on the islands, and it helps to buy out these islanders of their own products and so on. Take, for example, essential oils. Some plants Mediterraneanly on our islands. They don't have distillery. They wear distill and get essential oils in Zagreb or other centres. Shouldn't such essential oil be called an island product? In my opinion, yes, by the islanders, yes. Under the law proposed, no. Therefore, we must be elastic, we must clearly try to really help the islanders, not put them in a situation where the letter of the law prevents them from being able to sell something they finally processed on land as their original product. And as far as the right is concerned, first of all, there are also clear islanders who are consensual, satisfied, but have one proposal. Because they know that the administration in our country can very often fail and that very often it can happen that not for a month but that even months they wait for the ministry's answer, and then some counties, then municipalities or cities, their proposal is to introduce a clear institute of silence, that silence is considered as a lack of interest in buying so that they can then offer the county, the city, etc. So here are the suggestions I made in writing as amendments. I hope the Proposer will respect them because without accepting such banal requirements and amendments, I don't think the law can absolutely get the green light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58301	Thank you. In 18.26, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58302	Well, first of all, I would like to say that, although Agent Tonci Tadic has been waved here with one piece of paper as though this was their bill of law, it is absolutely not true. Because, first of all, these amendments to the laws that we propose have 30 and some amendments, and what the HSP Club proposed was one article that had two articles, and that was a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights, so not this one. Because they proposed something completely different to Tadic. Yeah, yeah, you. You have suggested that, that the state has the right to first purchase of property that consists of more than 1/4 surfaces on the island and the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. So if it's sold up to 1/4 then it can be sold to anyone. If it's more than 1/4 then it can't be sold. The owner will divide it nicely into 4/4, today they will sell 1/4, in three months they will sell the second quarter, in four months the third and so in a year they will sell the entire island. So this is absolutely one article that's completely the opposite of what we're proposing here. Therefore, colleague Tadic, it is not true that we are this, that we have neither taken this from you nor as an idea. We're even the opposite of absolutely refusing this. We knew about this. And in addition, our bill was completed before 9 June when you sent this to representatives of the Croatian Parliament, or before that to the Government. Either you said that a foreign or domestic natural or legal person cannot acquire the right of ownership either partly or entirely above the islands and hills in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. We said no one can, no one can. Because what you... Croatia will buy the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't think it's acceptable today that your position is that this, because this law absolutely has nothing to do with what you suggested in June 2004. Secondly, you also talked about the issue of protection against the sale of real estate legal persons from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, i.e. now Serbia-Montenegro, this was resolved very clearly. There's no need for this law to treat it at all. And the report on the impact and implementation of the Island Act... And that's one material that's ready and we're sure to refer it to the parliamentary procedure of this report. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] For indeed, as it has already been said here, there is nothing to say in this report that has been done in the implementation of the law, the Law of the Islands. Therefore, we absolutely accept that, colleague Tadic, and we will certainly refer it to the parliamentary procedure. It was a matter of why an emergency procedure. We think that it is necessary to pass this law as soon as possible, just for the very reason that it will come into effect and that we can do what we have brought this law to do. And it's a matter of delay until a program is made. The maximum deadline for the programme is one year, and we will do this programme for sure long before, but all other provisions of the law come into force immediately after a clear vote of this law, if the Croatian Parliament adopts it. And there were even more suggestions here, it's a HDZ club, but it's also a SDP club, which is that the provision that property cannot be sold. The law says when the owner of the Republic of Croatia has proposals to pass it on to local self-government units, so to county and towns. I think it's absolutely acceptable and we'll accept it absolutely. Here, so much for now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58303	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58304	For the sake of clarity, phonograms need to be determined that the HSP has proposed the same solutions the government is proposing now. The right of first purchase and exemption from sales for small islands that define... either they are relevant for sailing or are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why more than 25%? Because we were suspicious of what was going on in that case. ... I said he won't buy 25% of Hvar, but he can buy some smaller island without a problem, let's say Scedre and there's already problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At that time, however, the government did not refuse, nor did it accept such a benign version of protection, calling for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The point is therefore, my intervention was a) late in mind and b) calling for provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement which really did not cross Croatia to act in the way the Government has now acted. Oh, God, let's keep this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58305	Croatian Representatives' Club, respected representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58306	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen and Mr. Minister with his associates. Every time we discuss such laws that concern most islanders, because most of the private property on our islands I assume is owned by the islanders themselves. They often tell me that when we are overly discussing the fate of the islanders and in some pathetic way we pour crocodile tears because of their fate, the islanders often seem to have hair on my head and say that there are plenty of these great care for themselves and that the state could in fact quite concretely show its care and care about special areas actually which are of particular interest to the Croatian state, and not in a way that constantly said I would bid on promises that I am not sure that we want to carry them out in the work. Already, a colleague before me said that we often make island law when we change some part of the law, but also when we want to analyse the implementation of this law, very little in the Croatian Parliament we discuss what you will admit, very unusually. These amendments to the law also remind me somewhat of the concerns of a state that would want to take better care of its citizens than they would do themselves. I don't know why, why so much concern about how real estate traffic will take place if we don't have an exact programme and if we have another year to wait for everything that Croatia as a state wants from these islands, why are we passing the law on the right to buy first, that is, all of these problems that we've been talking about. I'm not quite sure that it's concern for the islanders themselves, because as some before me have said, I'm also not quite sure that it's necessary in this way to take care of the areas where I assure you, the human leg hasn't set foot in the last few months maybe once or never. We are actually afraid that property over a certain part of our territory will go abroad, and I assure you that anyone will always own it in the Croatian state and that it will always ultimately be owned or if not directly owned then the right of the Croatian State and that is why we are so easily spending budget money, because we claim that the value of these islands could be about 5 billion kuna, and the test that we know what we are about to do with these islands. If we're gonna pay our own space just to keep him as he is, I think it's crazy. I think it's unnecessary and it's better to invest that money in active islands where there's a need for many life problems that haven't been solved properly. I wish that the fees from the port administrations which are the irrefutable right of these islands were that the duties in most of these islands were left to them in the manner they wish, and that of course they join together and their resources are shared with all those who need it to complete one significant project, and not vice versa that we have a roof institution that controls the port tax which is mostly achieved on the route of island integration and that in that way we actually pour into the dropper or spill the funds that the islanders themselves have sold most of the way. That's why I don't want to challenge the state's right to buy first. It's logical that such a right might have, but it seems to me that there may be some kind of, perhaps some kind of hidden intention. I'd like to know if our islanders can raise a mortgage on their property and in their own space now. Why can't our owner take out a loan and use his money in some profitable and entrepreneurial activities that would be much more useful than to sort of worry about what he's going to do with his island. I know that our neighbours of the Dalmatians and all those who are fatally tied to the sea, to the islands, have actually treated this area very carefully in the way they wanted it to remain in their possession and be their right and I do not believe that there will be a stampede of buying these spaces and these islands. I simply don't believe in such a fact, but if we want to regulate it, then it seems to me that it must be simpler regulated than it was proposed by this law. The 30-day procedure and then 30-day state, then 30-day local, local and local municipalities, it seems to me that, some of them said, that the market price that is an important element of business would be completely lost, because if the state did not show interest in three levels to buy some space then that owner would almost lose value, i.e. to lose that position that he would have had in the first run, the market price was recognised for valorising that space. I can therefore not say that on behalf of the HSS we will not accept these decisions and this way of thinking, but we will certainly adhere to those who will submit some amendments to this law. The game and the way we want to protect our space, we don't need to talk about it. So who thought of those savages who had never been to those places, actually reinstalling or entering a space that was completely closed, which can't actually bear such a burden. This should be thrown out of the law and I think this about line transportation that the Law on Islands should have put in Article 10 which defined the precise relations in line transport and state relations and isoccupied to this problem, regardless of whether we transferred it either in whole or in part to the Law on line traffic. I think it's unnecessary to throw it out and it would be good to actually keep it in the law and in some ways even more thorough and much more knowledge of what this law is really about. Not by emergency procedure, I assure you. It's not such a rush, it doesn't need an emergency procedure, there's no such rush on our islands that at some point they'll become foreign property. And I still think it's always the Croatian state and Croatian property, regardless of whose property it really was. And that's why it seems to me that this law is almost and unnecessary. But if that's the decision, we'll resort to that decision and support it with these reserves. And I'm going to ask Mr. Pecek to continue on behalf of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58307	The second part on behalf of the HSS Club, Honorary Representative Zeljko Pecek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58308	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary and Associates. Of course, we at the HSS Club are taking the emergency procedure off this bill. However, we would also like to extend the subject if we remove the emergency procedure. So I'd like to ask the minister's testimony on a very simple matter. Are the islands just land surrounded by the sea or are islands a territory surrounded by freshwater? Or do we have islands in rivers and lakes? In fact, we will support a programme that will take care of the development of the island at sea because of demographic problems and development opportunities, but we demand that all islands in Croatia be included in the Law, because the problems are actually identical. This is not just the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, traffic, but the last word is "development". Well, it's just that development needs to be taken into account in these areas that are limited by freshwater. On rivers and lakes there are also islands that are semi-inhabited, as well as those that could be permanently inhabited, especially if we take care of them. That's why I'd ask the minister to show up about this attitude, are river and lake islands part of the program? Will there also be a need for investment for them? Because I see it as a problem because through the amendments to the law, we're looking at all the islands that are covered by the programme, and there are no river and lake islands here. Of course, we are interested in Article 9 which says, for example, that organic, agricultural production may develop on the islands. Well, of course that's possible. I remind you of the Charengrad Ada where we have dozens of hectares of agricultural land where the ideal area for the development of organic agricultural production is. However, since it is not an island, we will not provide money for it in accordance with the provisions of this Law. Of course, Polish, forest, and fire roads should also be updated on these islands that are on rivers and lakes. Of course, it should also take care of the harmful effects of water on the islands. Because it is known that islands on rivers each year lose several hundred square grips of land due to the erosion of water that affects them. Of course, it should take care of both the environment and the nature of the island and the area in which it relates. In fact, the question is very simple, if I don't open up the hunting issue now because we'd like to know and what about hunting on those islands, what kind of game it might be, whether it's going to support and develop these projects. My proposal is very simple. All those islands, i.e. all areas that deserve the attention of development, which have the potential to possibly organise some production or possibly return to life and to such islands should be an integral part of the programme, and perhaps something about the Law should be said about it. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, to hear your point of view of what I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58309	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58310	Thank you. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that agricultural production is possible in Charengrad. Charengrad hell is a blue area, a respected colleague. ... I'm getting right. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58311	Honored representative Nikola Ivanis for the PGS, SBH and MDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58312	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let me say on behalf of the Regional Party Club what we think and about the Island Act, which was adopted in 1999, as well as these proposed amendments and additions. The last debate on the implementation of the Island Law was held in 2002, and we tend to believe that it would be good if we had discussed a report on the application of the Law before and before these amendments. But the fact that the report is made up and we're about to discuss the accept and we think it's a good thing. Because the debate on the enforcement of the Law and the results on the enforcement of the Island Law is welcome, since it is something that the Constitution defines in Article 53 as what this country is particularly concerned about. These are islands and indeed fall into one of the greatest treasures of the Republic of Croatia. As for the Law on Islands, which is being amended by these amendments and amendments, this bill changes, we in regional parties consider it to be a good law. Croatia does not have too many good laws and we think that the Islands Act is good as usual and another special law, the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. We also think that both laws have brought results with their application to the areas in which they apply, and therefore we think that what is proposed as changes and additions to a good law is needed. We think that, based on this Law, Croatia takes good care of its islands, both figuratively and in quotes, and in reality, it can be said, concerns in billions. Well, then, he should be really reasoned when we're going to change that. Part of the proposed changes are supported by the Regional Party Club. I'll count what we support and what we have certain doubts about. We support the island classification and definition of the island. The same basic intensity when it comes to the sale of the island, these less than 75 hectares of these uninhabited or occasionally populated with a first-time state, we absolutely support as well as all the measures to be taken or brought, which seek to raise greater concern about the total real estate and about the protection and restriction of their traffic in the years to come, we believe that this protection is necessary. We also support the obligation to define maritime goods, as well as the adoption of an island-use programme of more than 700 islands that we think are looking for solutions that are here somewhere in terms of the proposal, and we really support that part. As far as the island council is concerned as the ministry's advisory body, or government, we believe that it has mainly fulfilled its function for several years, we think it is working, and we think that this report will probably show for that both in the final and certain spreads and ingenuity of a single body such as the island council... As far as the fourth subject is concerned, which is the issue of transporting islanders, we think it is not necessary to set out the provisions of the Island Law on this matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What it will be, and it will be as regulated in the Law of... Shipyards do not mind and do not ask for us to at least necessarily delete these provisions in one parent law, the Island Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as game subjects are concerned, we are particularly interested in this subject, as president of a regional party that operates on islands where big problems with gamers are of particular interest and we have dealt with this in local politics, so I will say something about it. It is an extremely serious and problematic situation both on Cres and on Lošinj and on Rab and on Krk with these savages and wild boars, with deer, on Krk as well as on bears, one has not been shot so long ago, the problems are large and with this problem something that is domestically and automatically at the expense of something that is not domestic, at the expense of something that is alochtonic. So figuratively, should our Kvarner Islands be known for Cresian lamb, island cheese or boar from Cres. It doesn't make sense, I think you know in a Zagreb restaurant probably no one expects you to have an offer of deer stew or noodles from Cres or Lošinj, but they expect roast lamb and cheese and for that reason these people have problems there, you know still a lot of people deal with livestock on those islands and we don't think you should legalize breeding. We have plenty of space in mountain Croatia, we have in Slavonia and these areas of hilly Slavonia enough room for growers and shovelers and I don't know who, etc., there is also Gorski Kotar, therefore we have proposed an amendment to delete Articles 2 and 3. We're suggesting it, we think it's real. ... Stands, sentences, pardons. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Article 8(2) and (3) to be deleted and we believe that it is active from the Government, from the Ministry of Agriculture to the counties' obligations in this regard, should be taken into account to carry out a serious reduction of that alochton game because you know what it looks like on Cres. The wild pig strays among other things and into the camp and now the Slovenian or Austrian rises from the camp house in the morning and then sees the wild pig. I think these are the situations that are happening, personally this summer driving between Punta and Stara Baška on a small meadow beneath the road I saw 5 or 6 wild pigs. So far greater is the problem of wild boars than deer shovelers, but not deer shovelers and I don't know who there... I don't think it's a place on the islands, I'm saying it knowing that the eco and these associations can be radical in their demands, but I think we'd have to settle something here, and I don't think that any major and special interest of the Croatian state is to further affirm the growing sites. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, it started with these fenced growing sites and hunting grounds, of course, we keep it as usual, and then it all fell apart so that gamer spread out of the previously needed fenced hunting grounds and today we have a serious problem and we'll probably still be faced with a constant protest with it from that part of the civil sector and I don't think we should, we don't think we should legally legalize, we think it's something that can exist until it's removed in those areas, but define something in the law that will allow the survival of alochton savages on the islands legally think it doesn't really make sense. So in these five points around one we're not supporting, one we support, three we're supporting as we've said, and we're really inclined to think that the proposer might be good to think about, so that everything that's been discussed in the debate will be discussed in two readings. I mean, the train won't escape, probably, and we don't think it's such a terrible interest that it's an emergency procedure, but we leave it to the proposing authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58313	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58314	Thank you, Mr. President. So speaking of this alochton savage fellow Ivanis, he said that they mainly came from conditional habitats, or that they were brought to the islands, etc. I can say one example specifically of Mljet and down the island of our... They swim, it's a natural process and they just come here and it happens that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the other thing is the truth for one reason. Say it's not a priority, that it's not a very big interest to have it all in an emergency procedure, is because you already have 20 islands on the Internet right now, so it's quite clear that it's a great interest to regulate this issue as soon as possible in the way it's proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58315	Thank you. Wild boars swim, to go to their own, to their own. ... Where are they going? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Seven o'clock. That debate is closed by the clubs, and now we're going to interrupt the session, continue the individual debate tomorrow. On the turn of the first respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Nenad Stazić, Kruno Peronja, Mato Arlović etc. The composition is... Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session and the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58317	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate of my colleague and colleague. Here is after a public storm that has recently appeared about the sale of our islands, as the Government itself has said in the light of this bill of law, and according to the Government, it corresponds to this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act which, as we heard it in the explanation of both written and verbal terms, the Prime Minister himself wants to prevent the sale of our islands. However, if we take a closer look at what it's really about. It's about small islands that, in fact, are often a cliff in nature. It is such small islands that are occasionally or not inhabited at all. It is about such small islands where animals, donkeys, sheep, and therefore the owners of these animals, as well as the particles on these small properties, are now holding their small animals. Now, if we take a closer look at what this bill is really about, perhaps the right answer, given that it does not cover the protection of the most valuable properties in the larger islands, then it is essentially revealing what it is and which, in fact, and what short or purpose this bill can achieve at all. Yesterday on our television, one of the owners who has particles on such an island said that. He told the government and I think it's one of the best assessments of this law that the government chooses to protect national interests in a different way. Let's just remember the accusations of the opposition at the time, and the current authorities that the former government had sold out everything, so when it looked a little bit better what it was that it wasn't really there, that the government was the most unsuccessful in privatisation, that little was even sold and privatized. Now, you see, together with this bill of amendments and additions to the Island Act, which will therefore protect our greatest value along the way comes and changes to the Law on the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule. Therefore, it is a message to the public and to my own personally that the Government chooses in a different way to protect national interests. This is not the right answer to that question. The truth is, this property and this property should also be protected, but whether this seems to be the most appropriate and whether this proposal also expresses a serious desire from the government. The assessment and sources of the necessary means for the implementation of this law indicate that it will be necessary to secure 5 hundred million kuna in the state budget. And if those money's secure. It's just said they'll have to be secured. The law will enter into force, this is the final draft law on the eighth day of publication in the National Journal, and the money is not secured. And then how will the law be applied? However, we will in this way precisely because the funds are not provided to punish those owners who just might be the only source of some of their own futures and the future of their children. Finally, it should be mentioned that this first purchase law institute is not inaugurated into our legal system by this bill. Look at the little state secretary there are other laws in which there is the right to buy first, at least that's how she wanted to show herself to the public and to the public that she wants to protect certain properties. There are at least two laws in which he enforces his first law. No real estate was purchased by that institute. Not a single one! So the question arises whether it will also be in the future, a team before, or a team of more resources to achieve this institute as here's a central protection institute for these values are secured. However, here's if we analyze Article 35a a little bit better. and further analysed by this head, it details how first purchase and legal restrictions will be exercised, and then it is said that the owner, as the owner is obliged at market price, will have the right to offer this right if he intends to alienate his property. So first offer to sell that property to the state. However, the government needs to know that shopping is not the only way to alienate. Don't say anything about donations. Don't say anything about life support. Don't say anything about life support. So, according to the government, I don't know how, that shopping is the only way to alienate. That's the most common thing about it, and it's the most common contract, but not the only one. After all, here's what I'm warning the government not to play the purpose of this law, that someone can show, and you can't prove that it's a ridiculous legal business, that it's a donation. So, in these cases, the owner is not obliged to offer to the state to sell, if he decided to sell. After all, how do you think you solve the problem of people who want to borrow, who want to just as a deposit, as a mortgage, but banks don't want that either, but they want fiduciary property, which means that this is exactly how these people are prevented from using that property as a deposit of demand insurance or their own credit. True, it is said here that even when estrangement occurs, there is a charge in executive and bankruptcy procedures that even in this sense the process of obtaining fiduciary ownership applies to it. But it simply can't be feasible because fiduciary property means transfer of ownership at the time of the loan. So, legally unsolved and impossible in this way, it's possible to solve this situation. And something else that I think is very important. We know the state is a big debtor. When will she pay that price? The truth is, the contract can be concluded. When will the price be paid? It is in the interest of the owner or seller to arrive as soon as possible at the purchase price and all these contracts between natural and legal persons or among only natural persons occur and to be realised at the time of payment, but it seems that this will not be the case for the State. Therefore, there should be no delay if the State has not immediately paid the purchase price and cannot enter the property. All in such a way that the State itself would not in such a way avoid obligations towards the seller and the seller would then be disabled in further legal traffic. I'm also warning here and item four, which is quite imprecise. He's also, this legal termology doesn't fit the mandatory law, so this is about terms of sale. There are essential components of the contract and these are the subject and the purchase price. Anything else can be the brains. So it's very inaccurate and something that's just out of bound right. All this says that this proposal is quickly drawn up, and it is equally necessary to prevent all possible abuses so that the state does not buy later to its favorites in concession, but also to ban further alienation of what the state bought or the local self-government unit you simply make it possible because it is not said in the law that units of local self-government or that they may not be able to freely dispose of this particular property afterwards. It is therefore necessary to suffer and supplement the provision of Article 35d. the fact that the state or unit of local self-government has bought that property, that it is also banned from further alienation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58318	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58319	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Secretary of State! I strongly support the basic idea of this law, which is the right of the Republic of Croatia to preserve ownership of the islands. Indeed, there was a danger that the property on these islands would be sold, that they would come into foreign hands and that by actually buying Croatia, rather than losing part of their territory, but it certainly came into one of me and it seems unacceptable for foreigners to have property over the islands. However, this good idea has been translated into this bill that reminds me very much of the cheese ementer. He's basically full of holes. And I'm afraid since we're bringing him in on an emergency procedure that the amendments to that hole won't close. First, counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović has already warned you, property is not acquired only by purchase. There are different other legal forms of acquisition of ownership. You didn't even mention them here, so the possibility of law enforcement is great. I'm asking you, for example, what's with the possibility of a joint investment where the owner is entering a field, land, someone else is investing capital, there's a company being created there, then the owner of the property comes out of the company, and the stranger who has entered some kind of capital becomes the owner of that land. And then where are we? We're there, we've got what we want with this law. So it's not as simple a substance as it seems in the ministry, so something like this was done quickly with a good intensity, but in a bad... What about the possibility of playing both sides? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, by the seller. We'll probably vote the law on Friday, he'll be in effect in eight days, everything in action, and now he'll offer the state some land sale, say, he owns the entire island, he'll be looking for some impossible price or twice as much of today's real market price, the state will reject it just as well as local self-government. He's doing it, it's consummating the law to offer the state. In five years, when that price rises five times, he'll sell it to a stranger and say so I offered it to the state five years ago. They didn't want to. You have no deadlines in which no obligation, so the deadlines in which this second sale must be made to a natural person. You didn't predict what was going on in these cases. What happens, here we know later the incentives in agriculture, what happens if the state shows interest and does not pay the price? In which time the state must pay for it, you also didn't write it. It's a possibility of manipulation. You forbid a citizen to keep it at his disposal and the state doesn't pay him off. Let him sue the state and he'll argue with the state for ten years and he won't get his money. You have to write in the law what time-limit it has to be done if you want to achieve the intensity that is good, which I support, but it needs to be fenced against all possible fraud, law-playing. So it's completely unexplained why only the state is forbidden to resell such land? And why not the county, the city and the municipalities? It's unclear to me. If we're to prevent that from coming into the hands of strangers. Okay, the state can't sell to a stranger and you wrote that it can't sell to a county. What if he sells county or city? Have we achieved the purpose of the law? Well, we didn't. We didn't. If we have a particular purpose, then we have to write it in law. Unless the intensity is something else. Letting the cities sell it to strangers. But give it out for the pay phone, explain it, tell it to the citizens. Let's not play games. Let's not play games. This is too serious. ... Now these alochton animals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's mongoose doing in the law? How did the mongoose get into the law? Mungosa's on Mljet. That's where they were brought. Why? To sort of correct the imbalance biologically because there were unusually many snakes on Mljet. And now the mongooses have gone down there, and there's no snakes in Mljet. There's some mongooses on Peljesca, but they're not on other islands. Did you consult with biologists when you wrote this... You know, there are only two kinds of poisonous snakes in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a rust and a jump. Everyone else is completely harmless. I'm not much of a snake lover, but what will biologists tell us? Is it in our interest? We'll break the food chain. Snakes feed on other animals, some birds, the hedgehogs I know. Now the mongooses are all down there. First it'll be gone, these life forms on the islands. Because that's what we want, because we don't want to. But what do biologists say? Is it acceptable to them or not acceptable? These deer, the deer shovel, that's a sweet little animal. It's nice to see him in the herd and so on, but it seems to me he's in the law under the pressure of a hunting lobby. They want to hunt in the islands. Well, look, there are plenty of hunting grounds in Croatia. Well, it's on land, too. So let's start the hunting grounds. But right on the islands where we want to develop tourism that we're still developing hunting. I don't see any valid reason. Well, you can't shoot where tourists come from. Well, the tourists won't come to us, will they? What are those people who rent houses going to live on? Is there not enough room for us to hunt deer, but we must hunt them in the islands? And besides, these sheep breeders say that then the deer scratch that grass over there, eat the food and then cause trouble, right? I agree, it's a good thing some of these alochton animals fell out of the law. We've got a bear on the island of Krk, it's real damage. There's a nail on Rab. It's doing terrible damage. All that's needed, even though we'll allow hunting, let's make it a form of sanitary hunting. Until these species get off those islands there because we have one ambition to develop livestock, special species of livestock and develop tourism. Now, a little bit on the line. There's something terribly bothering me. See Article 6 where you amend Article 10. delete paragraphs 3 and 4. Look, not at all. Not for God, not for God. Because what Article 3 says, and you say that you have completely transposed the Law on line traffic. You're not entirely, you're not. You have transposed paragraphs 1 and 2. But article 47 says: an island annual program, not an apology, which turns out to be? It falls outside the price in public ferry transport of passenger and freight vehicles can be determined so that the prices of sea transport by passenger and freight vehicles are not higher than the costs of fuel of vehicles and tolls which would result in road ferry lines and will be determined by the island’s annual programme and so on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You don't say that in the Liner Transport Act, you don't transfer those two articles, but you say that the island's annual programme will set a price discount. And the minister, with the agreement of the finance minister, will pass a regulation on the types of documents and so on. It's something that must happen. If we vote this law in an emergency procedure, and we probably will because it is the will of the parliamentary majority it is worth next Friday. We don't know what's gonna happen to the Line Traffic Act, we don't know. He's got a lot of problems. The smartest thing would be to send it to third reading, and then we'll have one legal vacuum. And by what law will the islanders then have these privileges in transport? By no means. We're kicking them out of this law. That law we're going to vote on Friday. We haven't passed the new law yet, and even when we do, we have to wait for sublaws because that's what the new law says about line transportation. So give this nice leave in this law, don't throw it out. There's a time to throw it out when that law is passed. When sublegal acts are brought in. There's time. That's the least of the problems. But for now, let's keep the islanders on that legal right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58320	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58321	It is incorrect that there should be payment deadlines in this law. Payment deadlines are clearly set by other legal provisions, and we cannot prescribe any payment requirement to prescribe additional deadlines for that payment in any law. There's a law we have to abide by. It is therefore incorrect that here in this law it should be specifically prescribed. But I think the goal is more of a good idea, one good law, one good proposal and useful for the Croatian state we try to deunciate such small things.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58322	Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58323	You noticed my colleague Stazić well when you were talking about how to acquire these properties. And you can practically see what comes from this proposal that owners are practically banned and will normally not be able to dispose of these properties. Why? Because the law, the bill suggests that the owner is obliged to attach a copy of land and other public books. Well, then only one who doesn't know the condition of catasters and landowners can write that, especially on the islands. There was often the last entry made 100 years ago. And people in law, owners sell their properties as off-book owners because they know that over the years they will be able to settle their land-booking situation. But there the state practically requires that they already contribute property because they are registered as owners which is not possible in a very, very long period and not only because of those familiar problems but because they are both owners and their legal... All over the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they were still in nature, in life, selling these properties in everyday life and the owner further treated the next owner as an out-of-book property and acquired a legal basis for the book when the time came, or when conditions were acquired and legal. In this way, in this way, they won't be able to do it anymore. Therefore, it is absolutely without substance that the state in this way restricts the legal, legal traffic of these properties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58324	Second replica, Honored Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58325	Mr. Stazic also mentioned joint investments among other things. I simply cannot understand why joint investment in this country and so much eager capital would be bad. Do we know the gentlemen of the council how many hotels the new hotels have been built on the Adriatic in the last 15 years? So, on the move from Savudrija to Opatija, from Opatija down to Dubrovnik plus on the coast of our Adriatic islands, which is a total length of over 6000 km. I claim that no more than 3, 4, 5 new hotels have been built. Let's put on a reconstruction, rebuilding those socialist buildings, but five new hotels haven't been built. Do you gentlemen have any idea how many banks the coast sold to these coastal counties in 2005 compared to 2004? About 30%. Do we know how many unemployed there are, say, in Dalmatian counties? I say the unemployment rate is at least 18%. Therefore, the only relevant mechanism to protect space, islands, is the coast's spatial plans. It's the only way we can save that resource. Everything else is illusory. Expecting our counties to buy real estate, islands, that's just ridiculous. The budgets of 20 Croatian counties, not counting the City of Zagreb, are 2 billion and 300 million kuna. So, on average, there's about 150 million kuna. Well, according to what these counties can buy and how they will participate in all of that. So let's concentrate on those mechanisms that are relevant and these are spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58326	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58327	It wasn't the intensity of my exposure to my colleague Caine against the joint investments. Joint investments are something that this country needs. I'm warning you, there's only one way to play the intensity of this law. If the law has an intensities, if it is to achieve a purpose, then that purpose must be achieved by means of all means. I can't leave an open little door where everyone will pass because then what the law will do to us. We don't need them, then we'll direct them straight to which door they'll pass and let's not close the big one. We must be aware, however, of these dangers. When we close all the doors, then these joint investments will probably be less and we may cause damage to Croatia. So this is one regulation that I welcome intensities. He's in intensive care, but I don't think he's designed enough. We're bringing it in kind of quickly, and I think it's unnecessary. Let's do it in two readings and it'll be easier for you than to fix it with amendments by Friday from the government. Sit down and take some business experts, take some biologists. Get that line traffic bill first. It'll all be clearer. Nothing's gonna happen. Well, that situation has been going on for years with those islands of ours. Nothing will happen for another month until the next session of the Parliament when you in the ministry will have more time and time and expertise to prepare a more quality legal text in terms of the idea of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58328	The third replica is Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58329	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with part of the presentation of the esteemed fellow Stazic because of the fact that this idea, this intensity was first expressed in the proposal of the Croatian party of the law of the club HSP a few years ago in this assembly and the truth is that this law is now in relation to our hasty one, and there was plenty of opportunity to then conduct the first reading quality and to prepare a far more high-quality bill proposal than it is now prepared. But that classic was, I think the Department of Justice was a match for the other departments. A year and a few days ago, here we are working, we will soon come out with our bill. And you see what's been a year and a half and you've come out with a quick bill like this, and even now the government boasts that it's her idea. It's not a problem. We don't mind if a quality idea so this time ours, another time can be someone else's take, but it is legally processed and simulated and that in procedure. Because these provisions regarding the lines can't be regulated here when we haven't passed the Line Navigation Act yet. We cannot also raise someone bound to have hunting grounds on the islands and to change the laws of nature. So, we're going in, we're working fast and we're saying something's going to happen. That our law was accepted in the first reading could have been made, so it's smarter to go to another reading with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58330	Thank you. Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58331	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd just like to start by saying that we might immediately remove the suspicions of the two things that have already been discussed here, and they are referring to the assumption that the possibility of estrangement of real estate is not defined through a gift contract. Then, through the introduction of real estate as a role in the company’s apparent donation contracts, etc. I don't know if yesterday the minister gave it in his introduction, but all that has been said so far in the debate is practically written in the reasoning of Article 21, so here's what I have to say here in Article 35a. Dropped and that's what we'll add, but that's what it says in the explanation. This is where the owner of the property sells the property and has not previously acted in accordance with Article 35a. the law and paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deemed to be completely invalid. Furthermore, the infringement of the right of first purchase is provided for as a reason of integrity and in the case of a replacement contract, the introduction of real estate as a role in the company’s apparent donation contracts, and contracts in which the price or sales conditions are apparent and the actual price and sales conditions are favourable to the buyer. So that's not it, that's what the government took care of. Even that's detailed in the explanation written. However, here is what we have said that we will supplement this with the amendment in Article 35a, paragraph 3. So it's not dropped, it's been taken care of and that's further explained. And the other thing about funds that are reportedly not secured in the state budget, so we said that in 2006, there was no consumption of first purchase rights by the state, because within that period of one year, a maximum period of one year it could be and the shorter ministry would create a state programme that would serve as a basis for the state's declaration whether or not it is interested in a particular property on the islands that are subject to this amendment of the law. So this year, we didn't even have to secure the funds, because this year, we're going to create a state programme that will serve as a basis for the state's declaration whether or not it will consume the first purchase right. As for these other remarks on hunting and on line transport, I will do so later and after other agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58332	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58333	It's incorrect, secretary of state, that you claim to have predicted what I was talking about, because that's what the article says. Well, it's not enough to write in an explanation, it has to write in an article. So you didn't see it coming, and you have to fix it. And the smartest thing to do would be to fix that. Especially since what you just said in 2006 and so will not be consumed by the first purchase right. So, we have time. You'd be the smartest person to think of these things and other warnings. Let's do another reading, we'll all have a better law together, so it's in the common interest and the authorities, and the opposition, and the citizens and the states. Let's not be hasty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58334	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58335	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this proposal is an amendment and the addition of the Island Act is a confirmation of our continuing commitment to protect the islands in exactly the way they are protected in other more developed countries of the world that have a longer country than the Republic of Croatia. The Council for the Development of the Island was formed in 1995. National programme, for the development of the island in 1997. One of the honorary members is Master Marko Širac, who participated in the first development of the National Programme in order to pass the Law on the Islands of '99, amending the Law 2002. So, different governments continue the continuity of the permanent protection of Croatian islands. Also, to presently present these changes that come at the right time and at the right time, and just by emergency procedure for the simple reason why there is a great demand for small inhabited, uninhabited or desert islands or hills. Because many who buy and want to buy such small islands, I am talking about the one from which the most important provision of amendments to this law is when many of the jet sets of world islands can be praised and I have one island or island in Croatia, one beautiful country, safe and peaceful where one can live peacefully, where there is no need to be afraid of any bombings, where you can drink water directly from taps. I don't want to talk any further. That is why it is very important that this very urgent procedure in which a few amendments are brought exactly this way. And this is confirmed by just the previous speakers who entered into the essence of this law and whose observations should the legislator certainly accept, and it seems to me that it is precisely the most important around which we are all agreed to be in the article exactly 35d. add what we've all said so far. Well, I insist too, and so did the promoter on our committee that it would be added and reconsidered, but it certainly accepts the amendment. So I will read it, it is not allowed to unlock property owned by the Republic of Croatia units of local and regional self-government relating to small occasionally populated and unoccupied islands, including properties on them. I think the promoter can easily accept that provision, because he wants to extend it to all those who might be tempted to sell what is of the state interest. Also, the most important changes and additions here are, I would put first, set the limits of maritime goods immediately and now for these islands for which the greatest interest is the statement, in fact expressed the desire to buy. To create a catastre of maritime goods, I agree, immediately and now start with the entire coast, and let it be the first phase of this island that we want to replace, or protect. Because it's a guarantee that no one can dispute such a provision and that state bodies can easily bring it in. Other provisions, I will also analyse what my colleagues said, respected lawyers, but I think they are already far from practice so then I can't understand the text that just modernly nomotechnical technique proposed by the Proposer. 35a., it says very clearly what is considered an object of sale, which is a market price, it is offered by the seller right now. If he knows that in this procedure that's very well declared both on the radio and in the newspapers, it's a hit topic of this topic, he'll know right away, 90 days I won't be able to sell it, so instead of the price of 100 I'm going to lose 150. And I'm sure he said twice as much, that the state will buy it and that's exactly how it should protect these pearls. Of course, what we need as lawyers is highlighted in Article 3. 35a. I would add very easily those three words, sweet words, the right of first purchase on the real estate referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to their alienation in executive and bankruptcy proceedings as well as in the procedures of obtaining fiduciary property, or other legal work that alienates this. So now we've covered all those possible abuses. Article 4 of the said Article, the owner of the property is obliged to provide the terms and conditions of sale and the price in accordance with the paragraph of this Article and to submit a copy of the land and other public books, a copy of the land catalogue and a copy of the cadastrian plan with the offer. These documents should be attached to him, whether they are as a seller, whether they refer to him as a seller, or to his ancestors 100, 200 years ago. that he is legitimately legitimate, if by no other means, by owning a list from the catastra that he is the very person who owns the uninterrupted series of possessions of this particular property. So modern nomotechnics don't have to write details, because it says in the offer they'll specify everything. What the seller states in the offer will be an essential component of the contract, essential components of the contract if the proposal is first accepted, either by the state, county, city or municipality. I think it's a very big nomotechnical newspaper, and it's something we should treat. Of course, what we want to point out is precisely the importance of preserving jobs on our islands, because without new jobs, protecting existing and new jobs cannot develop the Croatian island. But for example, just as article 35 is a modern nomotechnic newspaper, I will highlight the Paklen Islands in front of the town of Hvar, so the island of Shedro, for example. or the island of Začevo where the nudist beach is. If this law had been passed before the Lords, the Hell's Islands would not have been offended by the lawless construction of catastrophic proportions, and this is the last hour to pass today, immediately today this law, not tomorrow. The island of Shedro where the devastations have now begun, every bay would like to have a berth, marinas, ports and ports, not while we need to protect what is going to the sea and what is coming and that we need to charge each part and every service the ship or boatmen receive. It's a simple combination when we go skiing, and then the air charge us at 1600 meters above sea level, and we're satisfied with that because we get everything for that money, and we still haven't caught up with those modern things. I'm still going to name hunting tourism. Reverends of Hvar Island is 140 years old, hunting tourism is 50 years old, there are mufflons, deer shovels. I'm sorry it's not even a hump jumper. That's where those animals came in. I understand the promoter, and I understand these previous speakers who say we're not going to further potentiate, but don't take this away from us that already exists on Hvar and Brač and where it should be pointed out, we want to attract a rich clientele. But not only are foreigners rich, and Croats, new rich people have a desire for hunting, hunting, fishing that way they want to empty out a little bit, get on a little bit, fill the batteries for new working victories. I'll also highlight the things that we often go around and that we should commend. It is this Croatian government that has even more firmly protected the state interests and I read in the "Vjesnik" for the development of the island than billions of kuna. Drainage, water construction, water supply, nursing homes, schools, infirmarys, so the entire segment. The assumption is that I support the Minister of our environmental protection, the spatial plans. We are late with these legal deadlines, and these are the best mechanisms to limit and make our coast better and to be our masters. Now we're a little poorer, but I'm telling you in 10 years we'll be richer than many Europeans, we just need a little time and a lot more to roll up our sleeves. And so I ask Mr. President that we now declare this amendment and supplementation of the law, not until noon, but as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58336	So before the law, let's pass the law. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pero Lucin. Shime Lucin, third time I say Pero Lucin. Pero Lucin is a rector, a professor in Rijeka, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58337	I would correct the incorrect claim in that sense that this law should be passed immediately, because it solves, among other things, the devastation of space and illegal construction. I don't think this law solves it. It's the plans, the spatial plans. And I think Hvar could have been avoided without this law, part of the devastation of space, and things can still be fixed. Let's say I know at least four muolas in Hvar that were illegally built, but the minister didn't go to Hvar to tear down the mules, but she went to Novalja, let's say the only one who was a mule, who was even intended to remove it, and she knocked it down. So we don't have to rush this law because it doesn't solve the devastation of the islands or the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58338	Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58339	So watch your colleague if we accept the argument that you made in defense of this law, then the law should actually be rejected. Because you say the law is good because now that we adopt this law then no representative of the world's jet set will be able to speak of Croatia as a beautiful country, a multitude of islands with drinking water, as a beautiful country. So you need to talk. Look, if we're gonna stop it, then let's not pass this law, because it's in our best interest that they speak so nicely of us. Secondly, you say I'm sure the state will buy at twice the price of the one that's really worth the market. If that's the case, let's not pass the law. Let's not. Because then the state will selectively pay someone twice as much as this one can get on the market, but that's our way into corruption. If that's an argument for this law, then we'd better not accept it. Third, you say about the fauna, don't give us any kind that's already domesticated. Well, that's the lack of this law, which she says about all the islands not making a difference. I know there are deer shovels on Brijuni, and now if we can get them out of the law, we have to get them out of Brijuni, I guess. That's why we wrote them in the law. But you didn't write a deer shovel on that island and on that island. Mungos on Mljet. I don't know what kind of one of these. So what kind of a list of islands, why don't there be deer where there's no sheep. Who cares if they have food. But you should've tried a little harder. Therefore, my colleague, everything you have stated in defense of this law speaks against him.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58340	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58341	We are just talking about a price that is very market-recognizable and everyone you ask along the coast and on the islands will be able to recite both in Swiss francs and in euro and in dollars as much as it costs, so this is very easy and well rated. The law on hunting has been passed in this session of ours, it speaks very clearly of all these details and where the orderly hunting associations, the hunting economic bases where they are supervised, then there is no mongoose to do harm. And it's the Mungos working on Mljet, if they do, that's what my colleague Matušić is going to fix, because there are no new jobs and no regulated hunting economic grounds. The game that can be monitored is, we also have rabbits at home, so for them to be restored, we introduce young people from Hungary, so we let them go as well as the pheasant. Just thanks to our government's state programme, we're talking about an increase in the number of olive trees, vines and famous varieties where almost never the vine was planted. And precisely thanks to the fire roads where the island law has just made a prerequisite that these fire roads can be made. They're all useful things if they're framed in legal provisions. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58342	It's on the Korčula mongoose... at Prizba's, down below. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I saw a couple of mongooses. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Damir Cain, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58343	Yeah, okay. The intensity of this law, Mr. Kramaric, is not ordinary, nor does a rabbit, nor does he know, wild rabbits, or mongooses, or bricks, or bears, but something else. What he was talking about among other things and the esteemed Kuro, Krono Peronja, who has been quoting "The Vesnik" since Wednesday...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58344	What's on your mind, on the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58345	...quoted the title that for the development of the island the state invested more than one billion kuna. However, I am surprised that on the other hand, the former Dalmatian mayor did not mention any other information which simply is the essence of what this Law should speak about, and that these 50 units of local self-government have originally achieved only 417 million kunas of their incomes. All 417 million kunas. If we divide it by 50, it means every island government has 8 million kuna somewhere. In fact, if we exempt those big cities like one Rab, Little Losinj, etc. It's somewhere between three and four million kunas. I claim that the intensities of this legislator or law should be how to execute or launch decentralisation that really the next day our islands can develop autonomously without self-porting, under quotes, states. That it doesn't all come down to begging funds from the central government but that, as it used to be, they themselves make funds for their own development.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58346	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58347	It was never the local self - government unit at the time of the 1331 Hvar Statute that could have built theater 1611 that there was no help from then on Venice. It is precisely data published in Vesnik that more original revenues from municipalities and cities on islands last year than they were a few years ago. And it grows and shows concern that we are very... Take every word of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Starting with concessions on the maritime good, starting with concessions, starting with further fishing trips for tourist purposes. So I'm just surprised, here's what one amendment says. In paragraph 2, the same replica, the word "muflon" is cast out, and now the explanation is worse. Its origin is from the island of Corsica and Sardinia. When a sheep loves pastures, they cross a herd as well as domestic sheep, so there is no need to grow it where there are domestic sheep because they are competition. And besides, I can mate with each other, which is not good again. So, my people, we're talking about completing a tourist offer with the development of hunting tourism. decentralisation, we are talking about decentralisation in the modern sense of what every day the Croatian government is doing and we are talking about redistributing taxes that will not be new taxes on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's a modern approach and we'll always support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58348	This to be precise, it wasn't pledoies for mating sheep and mufflon. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58349	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and Assistant Minister. I am pleased to have this debate where there is unanimity and unanimity that needs to be protected by our islands. However, the situation is much more serious than it seems. In fact, we are now protecting these islands from ourselves first, and only in the negotiations that follow must we justify this before the International Community. Namely, the integration that we are entering that are undeniable and will bring and have already brought a lot of positive, bring a lot of negative things. And that is why we are watching the battle of all the former and now potential members of the European Union countries and other integrations as they are struggling with the heart to preserve real estate on their land, on their premises. Croatia has just begun such negotiations and therefore this Law comes at a great time and will probably bring all these remarks to this and contribute to the success of defending this Law and where it should be, it is in the negotiations. Namely, the mistakes of our Slovenian neighbours who protected their premises under the Nature Conservation Act proved unsuccessful because they now received deadlines when they had to change it. So I ask that the discussions take into account both what and how the International Community will accept certain parts of this Law. In order not to be a year from now, two must be disappointed with our own ideas. How much seriousness in protecting your space you need to invest may serve two small examples. One from a long time ago, and one from a recent past. In 1845 the letter of the Indian chief Seattle when the whites wanted to buy their land said, "How can you buy or sell the sky, the warmth of the earth? That idea is our side. If we sell you our country you must teach your children that this is sacred soil and that every reflection in clear water tells the events and memories of my people. You must teach your children that the ground beneath their feet is the ashes of our grandfathers. You teach your children that the ground is your mother. Whatever she finds will befall the sons of the earth. He who spits on the ground spits on himself." Or a little closer to the past. A little Spanish place where they sold out all the real estate because they made out for good offers. I have a good friend in that place. 60% of real estate bought by Germans, 40% English, no more tortillas, no more Spanish music, no Spanish specialties, no folklore. He's got German pubs and English pubs. What's wrong with that? It's bad that there are no more tourists and my friend has to move now because he's engaged in tourism, and tourists won't come for a beer in the Spanish coastal zone but go to Munich and they won't come to... To the Spanish coastal place than to go to London, and when I asked him where you were going to move, he answered me, so I'm going to Spain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The majority property destroyed the indigenous element, lost tourists, lost the source of existence, and that is why our islands are now in the first place because they and the source of our grandfathers' pride are embedded in this soil, but also the source of our income for our children and our descendants. The greatest evil would be to think at this point that this law is the only protection of the island. The government, this current government has already done a lot to protect some properties on larger islands and a whole series of other properties with several important decisions of its own. First, to precisely distinguish the maritime belt and determine, secondly, that it must not be built in the area 70 meters from the coast, thirdly that spatial plans must be accelerated where unfortunately local administrations have failed, ignored and even abused, and that central state would have to contribute much more and much more strongly, and all these proposals were actually protected most of these islands. When we ask a stranger why Croatia is one of the first answers will be by having a thousand 246 islands. We can only protect properties on a large island in accordance with existing European Union rules, protect small and uninhabited islands at times and by some other regulations, as such examples are significantly less. There are very few countries in Europe that have like Croatia small uninhabited or occasionally populated islands 746 of which 50% privately owned and therefore we are specific. How are we supposed to be afraid to sell our country to foreigners and object to us, even a high European official here in this House recently "are you afraid that the new owner will take your country from Croatia?" Well, of course we are not afraid, but unlike other countries or most European Union countries, we depend on the existence and economic and economic and in the future, perhaps crucially on the beauty of our country. We sell our beauty to our tourists, and there's a big difference in which we have to look for exceptions to other European countries, and they don't, because the beauty of a thousand 246 islands brings in a few billion dollars a year, and there's our right to protect what other countries haven't been protecting and they haven't been able to fight for it. When we protect the agricultural land, everyone pats us on the shoulder and say it's okay, others did it, and when we want to protect the coast, then everyone gets on their backs and what you're gonna do is protect the coast. Our coast means the same to us economically, if not more than our agricultural land. I'd say the same thing, and that's why we need to protect the coast with equal measures, even more stringent, even more firm, even more determined. In this law, we find the only possible solution. All other solutions, and be assured for two years, the possibility of protecting the sale of these small islands is being debated, and all other solutions are not in line with the existing Croatian regulations, and we have indeed heard all possible solutions from Malta to the northern European countries. The only thing that has a chance to go through and what has to go through, which I hope will be taken care of by our negotiators, is precisely the right to buy a state, and that's why I think criticizing this idea means not knowing other ways of protecting real estate on the islands, but the remarks we've heard about must be avoided and any abuse of such a sale should absolutely be accepted and believed, I see that the Government's representative writing intensively and I believe that he will accept it. I would personally say a few remarks with all the praises of this Law. I believe that the market price is not sufficiently precise. The market price may also be the result of malfeasance, however it should somehow be defined, I do not know how, but perhaps one of the possible definitions would be to assess from the competent tax administration as we already have an example in some other properties, agricultural land, etc. The second thing I think this note needs 500 million kuna a month is not enough. It might be enough in the first year, we don't know what's going to happen in the second year, maybe it'd be a good solution to announce the sale to the state by September one year to include the necessary funds in next year's budget, and there might be a solution to some of the remarks we've heard here. I also absolutely support the amendment that I see Mr. Shirac wrote, which is that the ban on selling is extended to local administration and self-government and should also be proposed and it is necessary to accept Mr. Peronja's proposal to avoid all other abuses very simply with a few words. But I would add the protection of the island doesn't end up on this because our islands are full of garbage, every tourist with his yacht anchors along the coast, no one visits it, no one comes to pick up his trash, no one even charges him with that anchoring, so the protection of the island must go further and the government will believe in that plan and do much more of this next government because otherwise it might actually happen to us that some of our islands will sail away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58350	Thank you. Replica correction, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58351	So a respected colleague expresses concern about what he will literally claim to us internationally, or by warning us what the international community will say about whether it is at this institute. You do not need to worry about this, we need to take care of other things because many countries in their legal system have the right to buy first by protecting not only property and other interests, but here I am using the opportunity and replicating what fellow Hebrang has stated that it has never been more of a protection in the last two years just like this and similar assets. This is simply not true, because you see what the Government is saying in the light of this Law, that it has recently accumulated sales of this kind and sales, and in addition to that it testifies exactly what the government has witnessed about the actuality and acuteity of this problem that has been shaleed for the last year or two days, it has witnessed to you and the register of a court register where you have a whole series of companies registered for this purpose and foreign owners who have registered here under the company of a domestic company, a domestic company, of course all according to this plan "HITRO" so that they can play out those small obstacles that exist, which is that approval by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, which so much oversees this purchase, or sell to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58352	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58353	Thank you very much. I said, Madam, that we should fear negotiations with the European Union taught by the experiences of other countries, and I have set an example. Our neighbouring Slovenia protected some of its property in some of its areas using the Nature Protection Act, so they protected, say, protected landscapes, so they protected certain other categories of their law, thinking that this would protect the schedule of about 60% of their territory. By entering the European Union, they must change all this. So we must make sure that it is consistent with what will pass in those negotiations. That was the point of my statement. On your note, the last government was also protecting and not selling coastal belts. They may not have sold but I know of a government that shared a coastal belt at least one large and significant bay for Croatia, so this debate should not go any further but never happen again. And finally, as for companies involving ownership or property over the island, the proposals we have made are going to avoid such an option because it is unfortunately being abused today and on other properties. In other words, a stranger starts a company, buys your house, and that company has no traffic for a single June a month. And that's where the law needs to be changed. Such a company must do business. There can be no abuse of a company to purchase real estate and a company only exists on paper and in practice there is no traffic at all. And we are the only country in Europe that has such a law. In all others you must have traffic and you can buy real estate but the company must carry out its basic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58354	The next replica, the esteemed representative Miomir Zuzul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58355	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague, Hebrang, spoke of examples of other countries in protection. And it is true that the European Union does not actually have one model, but it is one thing. Any state that felt the need to protect its citizens and its property or property has done so. If nothing else worked, she was delayed during the complete liberalisation of the real estate market. However, the Republic of Croatia is in a very, very specific position and our negotiators will find this extremely difficult. In fact, the Republic of Croatia is the only country that has agreed in advance to complete liberalisation before entering the European Union and has not yet happened. Countries have protected themselves like Malta, which protected itself completely until, for example, the Czech Republic, which protected itself from seven years after entering the European Union. Croatia signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and now those who signed it now say it should be protected through negotiations and then gave something without any conditions and without any protection mechanisms. I, of course, advocate, think it's a lot more important than shooting who's to blame even though it's perfectly clear so we don't have to fight. It's much more important to find a model to protect itself, but in the situation we're in, it's going to be extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58356	The next replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58357	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Hebrang has precisely located the position of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, which has been warning for many years that this issue should have been resolved earlier. And unfortunately, it is true what he said was the former and this government has always taken care of how the international community will react and that is why we have been brought into this situation and it is true that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has already resolved this in advance and it has been applied since 1 February 2009. All this says that we should have done it long before, that is, that this assembly of parliament should have adopted our proposal of the Law on Property and the real legal relations in the first reading and then we could have quality regulation of the whole of this matter, and I say and strengthen the negotiating position of Croatia and accurately establish the strategy. And I'm glad that colleague Hebrang mentioned the chief... Because that's exactly the quote that says you don't need mufflon on the islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58358	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58359	Thank you very much. Everything Mr. Kovacevic said I really support, except for one small part. I think that in solving these problems and that's preserving national interests in our negotiations we should throw at least another plan if we don't give up who he is before, who he is later. So, let's put the party shooting on probation here and push it into another plan. As we have found an inter-party consensus for pre-accession negotiations in general, we should find a party consensus to preserve our grandfatherland, to preserve what those who have lost and that is property of real estate. This is so important and dominant in these pre-accession negotiations that I really propose that we push all these disagreements into the other plan and that this consensus extends to this most important chapter of the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58360	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58361	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry! So here, listening to all these discussions yesterday and today, I think we can agree on one thing, which is that no one has anything against the intensity and intent of this law or that basic part of it. However, we differ in approach, nuances, deadlines and ways to realize it. He would therefore plead, appeal to a gentleman from the government or the ministry to think, however, that this law is going to a second reading. It's more arguments. One of the arguments is, let's say, that there are certain gaps in the law itself. Some parts of the law that are not in the law have been dropped, as explained. At the same time, we already have a number of amendments on the benches that I think are way too much for. Therefore, it would be better not to go what you would say with your head through the wall that the government must now and tomorrow write amendments and then correct that law with its amendments. The second argument that seems to me also very important and it consists in that the most important part of this law is what will not be in this law and that is the program. If the ministry has set itself a deadline of one year for the adoption of this programme, then it is necessary to actually state what the law will now, by emergency procedure, if its application is yet to be possible in a year. Therefore, we can now say that we may also need it for the sake of certain preparations and talks with the European Union, but I think we will show our seriousness at the moment when we have a complete proposal or a complete version of the solution to this problem in front of us. So I think it would be much better to go in two readings, because through this debate has just shown a series of gaps that are contained in this law and it would be good in one seems to me an adequate way to fix and then in that case I don't see any reason that we can agree or disagree on mufflon. But as far as the law of the first century is concerned, if I say this inconsistencies of the aberration should not be vague. So that would also avoid those assessments that are heard in fact that this law is nothing but a certain political-psychological move towards the outside because what is heard in the highest part of today in the Croatian public and that is fear of selling Croatian real estate to foreigners. Okay. This is where we based ourselves on the islands. We'll talk about the coast and some other things, I guess. Here, allow me a few remarks. This law has two levels in a certain way. As fellow Hebrang said, he is actually trying to protect or position a certain national interest. I am, as a man of the island, in a certain way of origin and so on, interested in how much he corresponds with the interests of the people who live on the island. At least in this part when it comes to real first class. Now watch out. In order for that national interest to coincide with the interest of the islanders, any possible variant should be closed. In my opinion, the possibility of fraud, the ability to feel those who own these islands that someone they sell it to will earn more than they do. So yes, some criteria should be set more clearly. Let's say I looked at that price. I don't know on which island he was building, building land, whatever land on top of the island, along the coast, in, I don't know in protected, I already said in, let's say, within the limits of the maritime goods that are only worth EUR 28, 29. It's an unreal price. According to the information I have now, and I believe that, at least from the coast and from the island, people sitting in this House know the same thing. If this was the time when many, I don't know what to call them meshetars, the bags go around our islands and shores and buy land. Enormous surfaces are bought and are not asked for the price. Let's just say I'm interested in whether the government has any information on this? It would actually be good to have two data: what is the interest or traffic of real estate on our islands and shores? Another thing we'd be good at knowing is knowing what the real interest in our islands is? Normally strangers in these various real estate agencies. Let's just say for my information, I'm not saying they're correct, but so far there's no great interest in the whole of our islands. It's more of a coastal interest. Why? Because these islands don't have infrastructure, they don't have access to ships, and so on and so forth. But I'd say it would be good if we could discuss this more competently if we had that information. I think that the price of EUR 23 per metre square, I don't know which island that price should have been adjusted on, but then ultimately it won't be 500 million a year, but it would be much, much, much more. But I'm going back to that program again. The program is, in fact, the essence of everything. And this law would be much easier for me to adopt and discuss that we actually know which islands are interested in the government? That should not lead to certain ones, so to speak some thought in the sense that someone might interfere and so forth. A matter of units of local and regional self-government. So the question is, actually, the unit of local self-government and administration if it's going to or if you were going to go shopping some island or islet if you couldn't sell it any further, I don't know, I don't know what it's going to do to her? So I would even consider positioning a clear state, or government, what is its obligation? What does he have to buy and what should he buy? But I'm saying we don't have those criteria again. I'm going back to the price. In order to gain weight in this whole issue, we need to determine what is the market price? As far as I know, the market price is not what I, as a seller, ask the Government to do, but the market price is what makes it possible for certain goods to sell that island, country or something else on the market. Therefore, there should be some clarification in this technical section. Now let me move a little bit to the whole of the law or the islands. We've actually come into one situation now not now but for a long time now that your islanders are afraid to discuss the islands. Why? Because the experience taught in these discussions always goes badly. They always get along let's say some benefits and much greater limitations. Let's say the seat belt. You now have one situation for people to leave your island, to sell you that land to these very mechanics, whether it's longer-term, so that one of these protective seasons will change or re-schedul you and they'll be able to build there. They're just dissatisfied. It seems to me, therefore, that it is not enough about this law itself to talk to the islanders. And then you put in this law one uncertainty about line traffic. I don't understand. If the government doesn't give up on subsidies, and as far as I understand, it doesn't give up. Why is it being thrown out of this law? Here, why is it being thrown out? What is the problem with staying in one article and having the islanders in one place, is clear that they have these benefits and that they remain the same. This is how you can simply create an atmosphere for me unnecessaryly around this law and so perhaps that plebiscite that would be even stronger and clearer put it or put it off in a certain way. Otherwise maybe you should think about it. When discussing islands and when it's actually being debated from, not only national broad interest but with the interests of life and people on those islands to try to think that the islanders are not given various subsidies and benefits but rather to try to leave them with and lords with what is theirs. So I'm thinking about the woods and I'm thinking about space and I'm thinking about the sea. But normally with clearly established proposition. And I think it's only one way to keep the islanders on the islands. Because what we still lack. We're short on strategy. Is it in Croatia's interest to have as many people on the islands as possible or is it in our interest to move the population off the island and to make, I don't know, some kind of tourist oasis, I don't know any hunting grounds where we're going to hunt deer shovels or someone else is going to hunt them and the mongooses or what's not being hunted. So that should, you should make that clear. I hope the government will listen to my appeal or at least seriously consider this law going to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58362	Thank you. We have four replicas. First respected representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58363	Thank you very much. A fellow Shima Luchin used a very good expression when he said that many bags go around buying our shores. He spoke very emotionally as a man from the south. I'm one of the few frogs who talks about islands because I'm in love with islands and every year I sail a few of them. Last year I sailed the north coast of Korčula and what I saw there and recorded it was absolutely fiction that was unimaginable. Houses built, based in the sea. So they're not houses by the sea. They're literally houses in the sea, sort of modern sonics. I hope the Ministry of Resorship will, especially since Mr Branko Bacic from that island is quick to level it with the ground. Well, better I can, yeah. What I wanted to say once again is indeed a great burden on the government and the ministry because it will create a special programme to determine the fate of each of these small islands and islands. That's pretty undefined. Maybe that's why you'd be in that article 35a. It was necessary to make a stronger commitment to the government to protect every island that should be protected in this programme, and those that have been protected by laws so far, for example, by banning construction at 70 metres from the coastal line, such islands do not have to enter the programme. So once again I appeal the program will direct the fate of not only this law but also our islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58364	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58365	Thank you very much. How well I know the north side, or the south side of Korcula, I must tell you that the good part of these houses is legal. So they have all the neatly obtained papers, and what happened with the maritime well-being, etc. That's what I'm talking about right now. I wouldn't do that right now. Yeah, the program's a key story. When the program says the government has an interest in these and those islands, then there's no problem anymore. Because look, you have a situation now that you have a part of the island, these little islands in national parks, in nature parks. Let's say what happens to those islands. Because I'd like the government to avoid unnecessary cost. Part of the island can be protected in another way, so not only to buy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58366	Honorable representative Damir Cain. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58367	So here's how Shime Luchin clearly concentrates amongst other things and the right to the first bath. None of us here advocates selling the island. What I advocate is that we strengthen the domicile population, that they come into a material position so they don't have to sell those islands. I'm in favour of protecting the island with spatial plans. But let's move on now. Whether Mate, Shime, Luka, Ante can sell the island to a Croatian citizen under this law. I can. Who can buy that island? Can you buy a parliamentary representative with an average salary of 13700 kn. He can't. Could he buy a minister with an average salary of 15500 kn? He can't. Can you buy a worker with 4500 kn. Retired with 2,000 kn. So who can buy in Croatia's island tomorrow? I can buy a tycoon and I can buy this construction mafia, and to be honest, I'm even more afraid of these tycoons and these construction mafias than I'm afraid of strangers. And that the state will be in a position to raise funds for the purchase of the island when it is unable to care for its own health care is, in fact, illusory to me. Shime Luchin said well or wondered how much that ban corresponds to the islanders. And we really, we're gonna ban strangers from buying. All right. Okay. But are we going to ban, say, tycoons or these builders under quotes from mobsters? Property is unquestionable. We simply can't question that, and we'll simply find ourselves fighting with this domicile population. Finally, there are several cases in Istria that the native population sold the frisker and the frasker. It's somewhere around 12 ha of Russian oligarchs and what do you do now? How do you just stop it? It was sold there in 2000. Did the state say that such a law was able to offer as many Russian oligarchs...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58368	Thank you. That's what we'll find out from the answer to the replica. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58369	So, speaking of those who now buy land on the coast and on the islands, I think it's clear that it's not about foreigners, it's about domestic people. I don't care what they buy, it's their right. It is interesting, however, that they buy places that are not urbanized and places where construction is forbidden. That leaves a normal man room for doubt. So tomorrow could change something so it could become construction. So, if you know the situation, if you know the whole Croatian archipelago, I think that the state, at least by some modest assessment, and I think I know the situation will not come into the situation to buy too many islands. And that, and that's why this program is very important to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58370	Third replica, respected representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58371	My colleague Lucin did well to speak of these cargoes to locate this problem, but unfortunately, Shime, the problem is not just the one we see, and this one we see you talking about. It's the problem when it comes to islands that we don't see, and this problem that we don't see can be best pictured in the following way. Where the largest possible protection in nature is established, where the national park regime is established, the nature park, where it is definitely forbidden to sell in terms of any construction there is the price at this point extremely low. It's two to three euros, and it's actually the epicenter of the event. In that space, it's actually the most held up today. That's not what you're talking about, of course, but that's exactly what these spaces are all about. Now it's normal for all normal people, and what's that about? As normal as it is, is it possible that I'm buying something that I'm just going to watch and enjoy? Well, gentlemen, it makes sense, because it's the most valuable thing in fact. Well, that's the whole point. Well, the house isn't the only one looking at values. Well, that is exactly why Croatia is the most beautiful country in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58372	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58373	I'm going to try to talk to my colleague Markov with one icon. Asking one of the islanders why he sold this land that wasn't built, which is in the area for such small money. That's what he told me. Look, I only sold him one plot in that place. I still have two pitches here. Since that's what he bought, and that's probably going to become almost a building plot, so my 2 parcels are going to go up their price, so I'm actually going to be the whole problem that we don't have any records and people feel certain uncertainty about certain decisions being made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58374	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58375	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you've made the point of your debate very well. In fact, it is about disrespecting legality in part of spatial planning and spatial arrangement. I think yesterday's "Open" show made it very clear when it comes to how it should be done in the case of the island of Vira and solving illegal construction I think the public attitude shows how we view it. And, of course, under such circumstances, it is very easy to make it possible for your colleague you're talking about to sell the land expecting that the powerful man who bought his plot tomorrow would turn that land from some agricultural or other land into construction land. That's certainly a problem, disrespecting legality. And until we know our consciousness that we can only protect our space in a way that we can enforce legality until the end of this, we won't end it. As far as price definition is concerned, I wanted to replicate it for you, I think the price should be defined in a way that determines the positional rent of the individual land on the island, to determine the culture, or what is going through it, or what is on the spot, and that should be what is in the cataster and hence, combined with the prices at which the tax is paid in similar situations over a period of 5 years to define the categories of prices. That's not a problem, but of course the problem is if the program that's just coming comes in a year, and we're already passing the law today. That's the problem then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58376	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58377	Well, this story about illegal construction, I think it's also very interesting again from the aspect of the island. You know, when you have an illegal building 20 or 25 years old, you can't have a state, anyone in power, amnesty from that case. And for me, it's crazy, I'm not into lawless construction, but I'm not the one that's going to tear down something that's built. Knowing some of the situation at Vira, I think there's a good part of the story to fit in. Now you see, imagine Vir. What's your islanders gonna do with this when 500 houses crash? So there's going to be another island, say, or, say, Rogoznica, a thousand houses. Has anyone even thought about what they're gonna do with that story, is, with that junk, with that building material. Actually, I want to say about this. The state, together with local and regional self-government units, must take part in responsibility, especially when it comes to islanders. I can easily go over to some cottage, say, to crash, but to some man, I don't know, who's been piling up a vineyard there for 50 years or holding a sheep who's finally built some house and two apartments, and he's trying to get the papers, I know that, and he couldn't get them to take it down now. It's stupid to me. So I think it's too serious for the islanders and it should go from case to case.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58378	Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58379	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands with the Final Bill of Law, which the Croatian Government has sent to the Parliament to adopt by an urgent procedure, speaks of its great importance for the islands and islanders. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is of special interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its personal protection. For the Croatian islands, we can say in total that for now the relatively well-preserved environments, but due to further concern and preservation of their values, we need to install planning and implementation mechanisms for all development programmes. By means of a national programme for the development of the island and the Law on the Islands, the Republic of Croatia has defined this interest and legally defined it. By planning and implementing development programmes, we will preserve and improve the economic and demographic structure and allow rational and reasonable use of goods for the benefit of the present and future generations. The amendment and addition of the Law on Islands aims to improve all parts of island life in line with the legal gains of the European Community. According to available sources in Croatia, we have a thousand 246 islands, cliffs and reefs, and 69 oceans that live together with Peljesac live 124 thousand inhabitants, so it is also an understandable concern for the Government of Croatia to improve living conditions on islands. The introduction of first purchase rights on small occasional inhabited and uninhabited islands for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, then the county and the city, or municipalities, and the definition of restrictions in their legal traffic will prevent inappropriate sale of property on islands. But before that, the issue of fiduciary ownership and donations should be resolved because sales are not the only way to acquire ownership. This amendment and the addition of the Island Act will allow for the establishment of the maritime good limit in accordance with the Law on maritime good and seaports, and if the owner decides to sell properties on small occasional inhabited and uninhabited islands where this is not established. It will allow the preservation, improvement of existing biological and landscape diversity, with reasonable use of natural resources on sustainability principles. The 1999 Law on Islands, as well as amendments to the 2002 Law on Islands, should allow the island's population to live a better and better quality life, as the law allowed a number of benefits. In the maritime transport of students, students, pensioners cheaper transport of passenger and freight vehicles for natural and legal persons with residence and headquarters on islands, bisquired lines, better ferry, road transport benefits, water subsidies to the island population that are not connected to water supply systems, more favourable rates for investing on islands, freeing part of income tax. In the last two years total participation of all state entities of ministries and public enterprises in development infrastructure and with subsidies on islands has been invested more than a billion and 200 million kuna. The quality of connecting the island to the mainland and the island to each other, all for economic and demographic reconstruction, improvement of island development and improvement of life, have been defined and achieved through the provisions of the Island Act. After all the reliefs and privileges made possible by the so far Island Law, we wonder why the amendments and additions of the Island Law are needed? Because the analysis and monitoring of the current provisions of the Island Act and the application of those provisions have shown that a large part of the provisions are being implemented, but that because of their inaccuracy and indeterminateness, the desired objective has not been achieved. It is important to point out that these amendments and additions to the Island Law do not touch any acquired rights based on the provisions of the same law so far. Islands are a very sensitive ecological unit where existing biodiversity needs to be preserved, so it seems doubtful to me Article 8. Law amending Article 13. The laws in which all types of small game animals that may reside on the islands are listed in paragraph 1 and which are present on our islands for a long period of time and are considered indigenous. I would like to point out that the applicable paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Law is regulated to prohibit the introduction and breeding of gamers who do not live on the island of nature, so the proposed amendment could be interpreted as the day of the possibility of the uncontrollable introduction of certain types of small game for hunting tourism purposes, and without monitoring it could undermine the natural relations of habitats. Such uncontrollable inputs may raise the question of vineyarding, olive growing, vegetables and fruit growing. We must also mention the already existing problem of the appearance of allocotic gamers on islands such as brown bear, wild pig and nail and the damage they do in livestock. It would therefore be very good to introduce for the introduction and cultivation of small game animals the obligation to issue a permit from the Ministry of Agriculture on the consent of the central authority responsible for nature protection tasks and, on the other hand, to hunt economic grounds from hunting on islands, a defined game that is grown or can be grown in a hunting ground. Therefore, I think it is necessary with the Ministry of Agriculture to review the proposed amendment to Article 13 of the applicable law in the section relating to residence, entry and breeding of small game. Otherwise, it is impossible to avoid serious conflicts between hunters and cattlemen and hunters and farmers. And lastly, I would say that, in addition to this remark, the proposed amendment to Article 13 and the resolution of fiduciary ownership and donation, we can also be satisfied with the additions of the Island Act. With a final proposal to create preconditions for more effective protection and sustainable use of all island resources and to ensure more effective implementation and public supervision of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58380	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58381	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. The islands are the pearls of our sea, they are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. The islands and the Adriatic Sea are very sensitive ecological units that are relatively well preserved. Their potential has so far been poorly exploited, and their originality has been underprotected, and developmental possibilities unincentived or even hindered. Almost a century ago, they did not invest in them by returning economically and demographically from year to year. The first significant steps in order to establish and clearly define the tasks that the state will carry out and direct for the purpose of the permanent development of the island, the survival of the population on it, were made by the adoption of the National Development Programme of the island in February 1997 when this Croatian Parliament also adopted it. The next important step was to pass the Island Law, which was passed in the second half of 1999. Realising the island's state development programme on the basis of these two very important documents that first launched economic development and create better living conditions so far from the state budget invested around a billion and 200 million kuna. Therefore, these investments have contributed to the improvement of the economy and life on islands. However, the restoration of coastal tourism and islands, the development of free entrepreneurship and pre-accession activities for the accession of our country to the European Union, the conditions for economic development and the improvement of the life of the island's population have changed significantly. The islands and the sea around them have become a very attractive area for building buildings, but also for developing an economy that I think is not always in the interest of the islanders themselves, as well as countries as a whole. Also recently, on small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands, real estate traffic has been frequented, of course, with the aim of building buildings or developing an economy that will not be in the interest of either the state or the citizens living on our islands. The government has recognised this problem and is not only trying to resolve it by amending this law that we are talking about today, but only remember the regulation that the government has adopted on the coastal belt, on the restrictions on building facilities, on measures to combat illegal construction, etc. I'm not talking about these other programs that are being implemented very successfully today. However, in order to create a prerequisite for better protection and sustainable use of island resources and economic development and improvement of the life of the island's population, the Government decided to amend the current island law, and to regulate these amendments and additions to the whole series of issues. By this law, here I was able to count, there are actually 31 amendments and additions to the current provisions of the law, and all these amendments and additions I tried to put into five of some groups about which here would give a shorter review. The first group is certainly a desire to improve the more effective implementation of the applicable law and, in that sense, the proposed amendment to Article 1(2), where the first group of islands is divided into underdeveloped, underdeveloped and small and occasionally populated and uninhabited islands. Another very important issue that will help to implement this law is the implementation of the sustainable development programme of the island which is now placed in the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, that is, if they are unable to do so, then they have the right to leave that competence to the county. So this is the first time that here are our people who live specifically in these areas who have the right through their representative bodies to and affect the economic development of that space. The second, also important fact is the establishment of a coastal-island council, a management committee for the realisation of island development. The third solution that encourages easier implementation of the Law is to increase the authority of the island council, which is otherwise the advisory body of the Minister. Now he's put quite in charge of a second role that's far more significant than the one that... The following group of issues is to improve the living conditions of the island's population, and it includes certain benefits for paying fees for crossing over the bridge, i.e. bridges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Citizens who live there or who carry out their activities there, let’s say the release, that is, the compensation of the costs of their own transport to disabled persons and of course, the issue of shipping which has been resolved by another law, and I would not refer to it at this time. In the third group of me, there are incentives for economic recovery on the islands. First of all, I would point out an amendment to Article 20 where our Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development commits itself to encouraging economic development on islands through its programmes by placing favourable loans. She's done it before, but she's done it in a specific way that she's asked the state for funds and then she's placed them. One, for me, the most important solution that has so far produced very good results, which is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring development, island development programmes, and there is a whole range of programmes that I would highlight only this new one. It is a state programme to protect the use of small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands that will give conditions for the realisation of these restrictions on ownership traffic introduced through the first purchase. Because without, and many colleagues have pointed out to you, without assessing what to this country, what to our counties, cities and municipalities need in general to ensure the development of that space, and we can only come up with one such programme that will give one real assessment of what it is that we need to protect through the first purchase institute and through restrictions that are placed on landowners until it is determined what is a maritime good. I think they're very good solutions. In fact, the Institute isn't really some newspaper we don't know in these places. We know what he looked like in the former state, and this is a far better and better solution. And I'd say this, of course, that I'm trying to get that cadastrian measurement and the records of this entire space of ours. And finally to conclude, Mr. President, that this is a very high-quality law that comprehensively includes solutions to the economic development of our islands, the creation of programs and, of course, everything that goes in the interest of our citizens on islands. And I will certainly support him in bringing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58382	Thank you. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58383	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Island Law that seeks to settle several important questions regarding life on the island. Among other things, the issue of the first purchase of the Republic of Croatia, and then the county, city and municipality of real estate on small and occasionally populated and uninhabited islands, which seeks to protect the uncontrolled sale of these islands, and it seems to me that this deserves special attention and I will pay particular attention to it in this debate. But before I say anything about it, I'll make a few general notes. Although the majority of state territory is on land for Croatia, it is rightly said to be an island country because of its thousands of 246 islands, islands, reefs and cliffs, there is the largest archipelago on the Adriatic, and behind Greece the second largest island group in the Mediterranean. Croatian islands are a space of contact in the physical-geographical, economic and cultural geographical sense. It was also through them that a centuries-old relationship with other Mediterranean cultures and economic systems worked, regardless of changes in ethnic, religious and political authorities. Coming into the world, growing up, schooling, working and raising a family, aging and just dying on Croatian islands is happening in a special world and is different from that inland. But Croatians understand and experience their seas and islands almost as well as tourists. It's a place for fun, a summer, and it's over. But their development of islands can't run on its own. They're too divorced with a little compact territory. The population is small and old, economic resources are limited. Therefore, staying, fate and development of the island depends on the wider social community, i.e. on the state. The Republic of Croatia re-examines its policy towards the islands in 95. In 97, the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development adopted a programme for the development of the island that was adopted in the same year and the Law on Islands was passed in 90. The island law determines that islands are Croatian natural wealth, and their properties are of particular national, historical, economic and ecological importance, and are of interest to the state and to them, and have its special protection. But the islands are also a very sensitive ecological unit and so far we can say that they are relatively well preserved, but due to further concern about their preservation, it is necessary to install all elements of the relative planning mechanisms, the implementation of all programmes, the development programmes. It is precisely because of the need for harmonisation, the needs of the Island Act with the existing state of development of the island, as well as the completion of existing and new measures that will contribute to the preservation and improvement of all segments of island life, but also to the purpose of economic and demographic renewal and improvement of the life of the islanders, as well as the harmonisation of the Islands Act with the gains of the European Community, that these amendments and additions to the laws are being made. The amendments and additions of the Island Act also try to regulate themselves in a different way, address the issue of land ownership on them, but also the sale of small islands that are more and more intense in recent times. In fact, the state must find the right way to establish the rules of the game in such purchase and sale, i.e. to find an instrument to prevent the sale of land on islands without the knowledge of the state. We are aware that this is about private ownership and that it should not be touched, but certainly there are certain models that would satisfy the long-term interests of the state on the one hand and the possible desire of the owner to sell the land on the other hand. The protection of smaller Adriatic islands from sales is one of the most important issues in which it is necessary to show skills in the adoption of implementing solutions, which reconciles the mood of the Croatian public, as well as the request of the European Union, or its legislation, as well as how to protect small islands from sales, while at the same time not coming in conflict with European Union norms. The introduction of a classic sales ban is certainly out of the question because this would be a conflict with European laws. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Islands in Article 21 suggest that Croatian islands be protected from sale by prescribing to private land owners the obligation to buy it in the event of such a decision first to offer it to the State. On small, uninhabited or occasionally populated islands, Croatia would have the right to purchase such land at the price determined by its owner, i.e. the market price. Only when the state, i.e. county, city or municipality does not want to take advantage of this right would the owner of the land offer on the market, but in that case he would have to sell his land at the price at which he offers it to the State or for an amount greater than that. I don't think that this first regulation is contrary to European Union legislation. We must also be aware when we think of this sale that it is not easy and it will not be as easy as certain brokers in the sale think, because even so far without these changes, there is a whole series of difficult circumstances that the whole process is challenging. One of them is certainly the fact that on islands the land is parcelled on several owners is not known, and in addition to the protection of these small islands there is also the Law on the Sea Good and it is good that it is in Article 35c. prescribed that the first particle to the sea or the first particle to the coastal line should not be sold until the limit of maritime goods has been established. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the promoter to propose a deadline within which these maritime good limits should be passed. And some more objections to the law itself. In accordance with Article 35a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 35a thereof, The law provides for deadlines in which the state, county, cities or municipalities must declare the price offered. That deadline is 90 days, and I think he's too long, and I see that we have one amendment about it, and I think he's acceptable, and that he should accept it, that that deadline should be around 30 days. Furthermore, in paragraph 2 of this Article, it seems to me that the way the market price is determined is not well-accounted for. Perhaps there should be a provision as well as in the debate here, whether it is determined on the basis of the data obtained from the tax administration. I also support proposals from the debate, as well as amendments that have already been made to see that in Article 35d. The law restricts the sale of land purchased by the municipalities and the city, too, so that they should not sell the land either. And in the end, I believe that the amendments to this Law bring several important and good positive effects, and for me, what I will do is give support to this Law because it introduces the protection of the island from uncontrollable sales, and that this Law will give us a very soon limit of maritime goods on all our islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58384	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58385	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would kind of replicate my colleague Ivasa. All the time, i.e. the entire discussion is somehow about the protection of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, which is the protection of the so-called small islands, or attempt to alienate them. However, it would be good for someone to mention what is true with islanders, or islanders living on these small, particularly undeveloped and poorly developed islands, which unfortunately turn into nursing homes. It is a fundamental problem and it is a national interest and it should be the concern of this country about the islanders. The best way to take care of islanders is not to protect, not to protect the transfer of real estate rights, but the best protection was to be the one brought by the Government, which is to pay a part of the income tax. Then another measure, it's a subsidisation of transport. These small islands where mostly nursing households live should fully subsidise transport in line transport and this should be the concern of this country about islands and islanders because we do not want to, or I would not believe that we want to turn these islands into some monden resorts in which some buildings will be built around these nursing homes for a pleasant vacation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58386	Replication response, esteemed representative of Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58387	... essential elements. [[Specially enabled.]] However, I was talking about the obligation of the state to protect the islands because it is Article 52. The constitution said that the islands are the value that the state must protect, so I was also talking about the protection of these islands from sales and I believe that the introduction of first purchases in favour of the state, the county and the city is exactly what it is and the right way to solve these islands and to reconcile the interest and those islanders who want to hand over the country on the one hand, and on the other hand not to come into conflict with the laws of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58388	Thank you. Honorable representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58389	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and koelge! I will only talk about two aspects of this proposal of the law on the obligation to bid for the first time and about non-autochthonous animal species on the islands. About the first time I want to say it at last. After two years in power, the government finally began to address the real issues of defining and implementing the general interest in protecting space and protecting nature from devastation. To begin only on small uninhabited or occasionally populated islands but it is a good start even though it is quite late. It is also good that the Government has decided on a non-discriminatory regulation that imposes the same restrictions on the legal traffic of real estate or the obligation to offer first purchases to the State, regardless of whether the owner intends to sell his property to domestic or foreign persons. So this isn't about banning the sale of real estate to foreigners as some try to show it, so hopefully the proposed restrictions don't really come from xenophobia, but from the need for more efficient management of island resources and space. In that sense, I think it is really important that this entire protection set is done in a way that we prove that the first purchase provisions are in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, which is not hard to prove anyway. However, an immediate and important question may be raised, perhaps, in fact, as to how the state or government will actually implement the first purchase, by which they will decide on the criteria, which they will accept and which they will refuse, or which they will leave to the county and the city or municipality, whether the state will be able to provide the money for the purchase, and especially whether it will be able to secure the county, cities or municipalities. Or question what the state will do with small and uninhabited islands. Of course, you will answer me all of this will solve the state's protection and use program of small islands. But that program won't be available for another year. Today, no one knows what he will look like or what he will prescribe. And MPs are expected to raise their hand today and accept something that the government will only later come up with. So much for the government and parliament's relationship. The question and what to do is make this law not only an isolated and partial attempt to influence the policy of space protection and natural resources. What to do on large inhabited islands? What to do on the coast or in other areas of general interest? What do you do when the state steps into ownership? We should have a clear picture and a policy of availability in advance. The likely answer is that the state will provide such acquired properties in the lease or concession and will not sell them. I'm happy to accept that answer, but he can't be quite general. For example, in the case of State-owned agricultural land due to the need to restructure and increase agricultural production, it will also be necessary to sell the land to those who will farmed or at least concessions at symbolic prices. I would say something about a broader legislative impact on the regulation of real estate acquisition in the context of our membership negotiations in the European Union. These negotiations began five months ago and the government is only now beginning to offer solutions. And I say only a partial way to ensure in the domestic regulation as little negative impact as possible on the opening of the real estate market for foreigners. So far, the government has only been trying to get away with an SAA that allegedly misnegotiated by the former government, so it now binds its hands to our negotiators who can do nothing to protect the Croatian real estate market from foreigners. It seemed to me that we were able to end this debate and that we agreed that that was not the case. But today and in this assembly, some colleagues need to make sure that our real estate market is widest open today, not because of the SAA, but because of the applicable national legislation which, as the sole fuse, knows the condition of reciprocity and only with a few direct bans on foreigners in agricultural land or area protected by nature. And reciprocity isn't and can't be an effective way of protecting against real estate sale. That is why today we are also discussing how to fix national legislation and not the SAA so that we can achieve adequate protection of national interests in the conditions of membership in the European Union. I would like to stress that the conditions of reciprocity if properly applied in the administrative procedure of certification in our ministries allow for 97% of citizens of the European Union to be able to acquire real estate without restrictions today. When the conditions of reciprocity are lifted on 1 February 2009, as predicted by the SAA, only another 3% of the European Union population will be able to enter the Croatian real estate market without interference and that is the large liberalisation of the real estate market that is allegedly brought by the SAA and which is why our negotiators will have nothing to do. So instead of moaning over the SAA for two years, it would be everywhere and where more effectively if the government had systematically looked at what national legislation needs and could change before the start of negotiations with the European Union so that non-discriminatory but also discriminatory provisions that enable the SAA to otherwise influence the entry into negotiations with the real estate market that is protected to the extent that corresponds to our current inferiority in purchasing power in relation to the citizens of the European Union and which corresponds to our specific needs for the preservation of space, landscape diversity and sustainable use of natural resources. When I mention the discriminatory provisions in relation to foreigners, then I start by making it possible for us in three cases, where this is necessary for the sake of public interest as prescribed in Article 62. In order to prohibit the acquisition of agricultural land for foreigners and to prohibit foreigners from acquiring property in areas protected by the Nature Protection Act and declared significant landscapes because of their natural and aesthetic or cultural-traditional value. It is now high time to introduce, design and implement a complete system of regulation and protection of the real estate market which will become the basis and argument for our negotiators in seeking temporary or permanent exemptions in the acquisition of real estate. This entire system must cover not only the right of the first purchase of small islands but also the adoption and implementation of other rules on spatial planning, urban and construction conditions and nature protection. There's less time for that. And as the day of opening the negotiating chapter on the freedom of movement of capital under which it belongs and the acquisition of real estate will be increasingly difficult and inconclusive to change our legislation as... for future exceptions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe it's just some argument to pass this law by emergency procedure. And otherwise it's totally unacceptable for this high-rise home to take two years to think and make a legal proposal. That the ministries reserve the right to lay down implementing rules only after a year of entry into force of this law. And to be the only one who has to discuss all these important issues and decide in just one single day. And now another concrete remark. It does not seem quite appropriate for private property owners on small islands when they are already limited by the legal traffic of real estate by reason of general interest, an extremely complicated and long-term procedure for offering first purchases to the state and the county and the municipality, which can last 90 days. It would be fairer and fairer if the state or body responsible for the management of the property of the Republic of Croatia were to organise itself by providing full service to the citizens, to gather together the holders of the first purchase right and to respond within 30 days to the owner of the property, will who use the right of first purchase? State, county, city or municipality? And in the end but therefore no less important The bill allows for the introduction of a large game for hunting into the islands and the cultivation of neo-hothton. This game, especially muflons that can be grown and in open hunting grounds, is a direct threat and pests in the development of livestock farming on islands. It is really not easy to be islanded in Croatia. On the one hand, the state restricts the ownership rights of the sale of real estate which can also be understood and accepted. But it's really impossible for me to accept that it's of general interest that muflons threaten and destroy sheep, olives, vines. It seems that in us of all lobbys, the hunting lobby is one of the strongest when it can go into law, not just this one to push through such directly harmful provisions for island sheep growers, olivers or winemakers. Such provisions, along with mufflons, need to be thrown out of this law without too much thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58390	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58391	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not true that late reactions are involved and that the government has been doing nothing for two years on these issues. Namely, my colleague Mimica, I'll present it later in my presentation. The government takes great care of the islands, and it has inhabited the Island Act only by the arrival of this government. And I'll talk about the arguments later. And it is not true that we agreed that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not as important as Croatian legislation. We disagreed about this because the provisions resulting from this agreement are highly discriminatory for Croatian citizens and I will say that in my performance. So that's not exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58392	Second correction by the respected representative Miodrag, Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58393	Thank you, Mr. President. As already respected counterpart Mimica plays terms from the basic textbook of diplomacy, then let me tell him that reciprocity is not the same as market liberalisation. It's sad if he doesn't know it, I'm convinced he knows, but in his speech he tried to turn away from another topic, and that topic is really a Stabilisation and Association Agreement that puts us in a very difficult situation. I agree with Mr Mimic that we should do everything possible to make the provisions of that agreement change but he is signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58394	Replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58395	Yeah. Mr. Mimica asked himself if the islands would be able to copy in our county or local self-government, municipalities, our cities? The County will certainly not because 20 in the Republic of Croatia in 2005 made budget revenues of around 2 billion and 500 million kuna. That's about 150 million kuna each. They just won't be able to. Will the island municipalities be able to buy islands? He won't. Because the 50 that we have there have achieved budget revenue means the original budget revenue of 417 million kuna. If we divide it by 50 so it's about 8 million kuna per unit of local self-government and clearly they're going to invest it in incomparably more attractive jobs for their population than the sewerage of the road and not buying islands. We have Sibenik here, Trogir, Dubrovnik, Split that can do something, but I doubt they will, with all the problems they have. Zagreb won't. As far as strangers are concerned, I agree and they're buying already today. And 90 percent of Europeans can buy real estate in the Republic of Croatia whether they form a legal person here through it, whether they do it through reciprocity, was finally what was the worst we could do when we sold them the banks. So in some ways, as you have noticed, we are defending it for 3.4 or 5% of Europeans at this point, which will say that the only solution to protection and or that most valuable Croatian space must be spatial plans and what is equally important in order to strengthen the position of the islanders. So he doesn't get into the position that he has to go naked and sell the property he inherited from his grandfather, his great-grandfather, or I don't know who.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58396	State Secretary for the Sea Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58397	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I mentioned earlier in my first presentation that I would look back at two things later, which is the issue of solving hunting in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands and on the other hand the part relating to line transportation. I suppose it was a dilemma whether to put into the amendment and supplementation of the Island Law the provisions of the other law, the Hunting Act? We are in this law which is already in its original form when it was passed in 1999 prescribed certain, certain ways and how to treat indigenous and alochton savages on islands? How did this law practically lead to certain misunderstandings, how was it resolved from case to case we wanted to prescribe and be more restrictive when it comes to hunting on islands than what the basic Hunting Law prescribed? And that was the foundation so that we could make it impossible for the alochton game to be grown or to dwell on the islands. We then prescribed in agreement with the Resolute Ministry clearly which these are indigenous savages on the islands and we prescribed them there. So when we talk about the possibility of bringing game to the islands, then that game must be exclusively autochton, which is a game for each island of Autochton defines, determines, regulates the hunting economic base in which every hunting ground on the island is prescribed either the state, the common or the area of the island that game can dwell on it. Therefore, there is no saying that this law can bring alochton game to the island if it does not dwell on the island. Thus, it is possible to restore game on the island only one that is indigenous and listed in a hunting economic base. When we talk about mufflon, here's Mr. Mimica, you said so impossible, and it's unacceptable for you to introduce mufflon where they've already been practically and become an indigenous savage, and at the same time, the SDP Club, I have to tell you it's worth saying that the mufflon is being kept as a big game on the islands and that's what the SDP Club is saying in its amendment. Therefore, with the permission of the exceptional paragraph 1 of this article, a large game in open island hunting sites may be grown muflon. So, something's not in sync. It's another thing. I must also say that hunting is also one of the forms of island management. At present, there are 68 joint, therefore county and state hunting sites on Croatian islands. Of that, 19 national hunting sites and 49 common hunting sites are. Therefore, the hunting grounds on the islands are lords, there is reason to continue to master them but to keep it clearly in the first place of agricultural culture and to make it clearly in line with the hunting economic base. In doing so, whether one of the species of large game is, therefore, a deer, a deer, or a muflon is really the best hit, we have not consulted the rest of the ministry about it, and tomorrow, until the amendment is stated, we will bring a final view on it. So, for example, are we going to keep mufflon as one of the kind of big game that can dwell on islands? The second thing that is also important and which I must mention is an objection relating to the relocation, i.e. the inclusion of provisions defining island subsidies and privileges in the Public Liner Transport Act in the Public Liner and Coastal Maritime Transport Act. I must say that I have been the head of an island municipality for 11 years, that I have actively participated in the adoption of the Law on Islands and I know very well how and how the provisions affecting maritime line transport in the Republic of Croatia have arisen. I can say one thing, which is that of all the provisions that have been laid down in the Law on Islands so far have been, which are now being moved into the parent law, the Law on Liner Coastal Transport has been adopted. It's just not because it's never been implemented, and the one that's never been implemented refers to a provision that says that the Transport, Maritime Transport and Freight Cars Act, so the price of that traffic will be the same, equal to the cost of fuel and amortisation of the vehicle as being on the line between the island and the mainland. So, the road, the highway or some other road. That's never respected. It's never been done until the end. It was only the government, this government a year and a half ago, so on October 1, 2000, that introduced the vignettes that we had come very close to that provision but not entirely. Therefore, today vignettes are as a way of paying maritime transport for private and freight vehicles on this trail and are defined by the island’s annual programme. Therefore, by introducing these provisions in the Law on Public Line Maritime Transport, we have now defined that prices will be defined by an island programme, which is in fact the only way to do this form of maritime transport in a quality way. I agree what's already been said here. It is not only the introduction of first-bought rights to protect the state interest on certain small, inhabited or occasionally populated islands. Far from just caring. Mr. Mimica therefore said that it is difficult to be an islander who, on the one hand, restricts the right to have property in his possession, and on the other hand through that same law, you bring to him in a certain way a savage who threatens his agricultural cultures. I agree, Mr. Mimica, it's not an intrinsicity of this law, nor is it written in this law. In fact, this law addresses a number of other provisions, which Mr. Širac spoke of beautifully and which encourages economic life and reconstruction of Croatian islands. What is important, and this is to encourage the economy on the islands and already through a series of measures, about 350 million kunas have been given through the loan of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which we have made quite simple and reduced this procedure, which addresses the issue of lending to the economy on the islands. Another thing is by conducting a more quality transport connection between Croatian islands by introducing cheaper transport, by introducing additional night lines. As of April 1st, the government will introduce more and more Croatian islands of the night line, which will practically mean that their departure from the island and the island will be in 24 hours. Another thing is the adoption of a regulation that encourages island employment, in a way that every company, every employer who has its head office on the island for every employee who has a place of residence on the island, or residence on the island, will receive an annual subsidy that will practically encourage economic development. So it's not true that care about islands comes down to limiting the availability of real estate. This is one of the measures that the Croatian state protects its interest in certain islands that will be defined by the state programme, but is also a systematic concern for the islands that must be encouraged daily by a series of other measures of the Croatian Government and the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament which contribute to the demographic recovery and recovery of the economy on the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58398	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58399	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, while I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State for the time being, I wondered if a man had read what it says in that law. But let's get back to two basic problems. It is therefore unacceptable to delete parts of the law that are allegedly to be taken over by another law that has neither yet entered into force nor voted in the House on it. And the other is about indigenous and ilochton savages. Muflons and deer, axies, boars, bears and lynxes were indigenous savages on islands in the Roman Empire. I discovered it myself by digging up '87. One deer horn from the 3rd century B.C.E. But they're not indigenous savages today. So if you want to rebuild the eco system in Rome's time, then let's maybe introduce it by what drawing, maybe by what bear, maybe by what boar. But the whole concept of island hunting is actually a historic precedent, especially hunting in fenced hunting grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58400	Let's move on with the debate. It's Mr. Representative Frano Matušić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here, more encouraged by the debate I've been listening to so far, I'm going to focus my exposure on this first purchase right and I'm going to say actually what's been going on in this field so far, and on the island law and what's been in place so far and when certain provisions of this law have started to apply. We have had the opportunity to hear that in fact this attempt to avoid European laws is, therefore, the first right to try to avoid European laws so as not to sell real estate to foreigners. That's just not true. It is only that the state wants to protect certain areas that it truly considers to be of national interest, that it wants to protect particularly uninhabited islands, especially those areas that are very interesting, which are landscapes, which give one decent landscape, which means that this part of nature will remain intact and which means that special care will be taken for all those who are related to those areas of nature. I want to point out for our viewers, for all those who follow this debate that this right first applies only to those parts of nature that are interesting which are wonderful and which are not protected by special laws, such as the National Parks Act, etc. So these areas are already regulated and know what can be done and how to act. However, I find it very interesting for the public to try to relativise the provisions and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in fact, to say what will happen in 2009. It is said here that only 3% of European citizens will be able to shop in Croatia's real estate in 2009. However, the following should be said, in fact, that in 2009 in fact, Croatian citizens will be in a more unfavourable position than European citizens, based on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Why? Because at this point, regardless of whether the Croatian state will be in the European Union, the real estate market will be fully liberalised. Which means that all European citizens will be able to buy in Croatia real estate in turn, and for Croatian citizens, the European real estate market will not be liberalised at that time, because we may not be members of the European Union at that time. It will therefore remain the strength of the restrictions that these same countries have in their legislation. Because the question of reciprocity is not the same as legalisation, or regulation of the free market in real estate, it is not the same. Because there are clear provisions in their legislation that do not allow us to buy real estate in those same countries. Therefore, it should be made clear that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in these provisions is unfavourable for Croatian citizens in relation to the citizens of the European Union. That's a fact and that's what needs to be explained to our citizens. So, the attempt to relativise the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is unfavourable in these provisions, I really think is inappropriate. Let's say the following, only by the arrival of this Croatian government did real concern for the island population, about islands in one real way. Why? Here we could hear what the Ministry of Transport has done so far, on investment in transport to the island and from the island, and freed, of course, and allowed faster and economic development of the islands themselves and a lot of investments that have been started over the past period, which have started, but also those investments that are ahead of us, which are made up of the CEB 4 programme, which carries 700 and some million kuna funds for the implementation of the project that started in 2004 and started to be realised in the period 2004 to 2007. It's about utility infrastructure projects, such as water supply and disposal, and then social care on the islands that we were talking about here. However, no one has noticed that it is working to improve existing infrastructure in homes for older and powerless persons on islands. No one has noticed that so far it has been done to introduce an extra-institutional form of care on advisory work, on foster care, and on care in the house. So it's all part of that same program. Same as improving health care on the islands. In particular, the priorities of this government and this ministry, whose representatives are here today with us, were primarily the realisation of the investment of island, traffic and municipal infrastructure and the implementation of provisions of laws for which you had no power or knowledge, nor did you want to do so. It was only in October 2004 that the prices of tickets for the islanders were reduced, and in April 2005 wines were introduced. And the discount goes up to 50% for the islanders, depending on the category of the vehicle and everything else. Therefore, it is concrete programmes that are being implemented, I say only in the CEB project are 720 million kuna funds. Not to mention other projects that are parallel. There is an arrangement of ports and ports, there is a number of programmes related to the promotion of the economy and there should be enough recognition to the ministry on all these programmes that have already been implemented to those who will live in the next period. Here, I think it's clear to all of us that this law needs to be passed really by emergency procedure. And from the fact that, and because of the fact that there is currently a large offer on the websites of just like this, small islands and large amounts and of course there is an interest, not only in Croatia, but also outside Croatia to come into possession of these properties. Who's gonna buy them? Is it gonna be tycoons or someone else? I will not have them precisely because of the fact that this law will be quite clear, quite certainly regarding the parliamentary majority and the Croatian Democratic Union and bring it forward. And in that sense, I think we're going to prevent the outflow of these properties and try to actually be carried out for some other purpose. As far as indigenous savages are concerned. So I think it should be said very clearly that there are different interests and different island groups and people living on islands clearly that their interest will also be articulated through their spatial plans, above all, which will determine or will not determine what will happen on these islands. And certainly, the profession will first of all give its opinion, which means indigenously, which means now present, now present savage, and in that sense we will find the best solutions that I believe will be no dispute. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58402	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote and replica. First is Mr. Shime Luchin's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58403	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. The first false assumption is that in Croatia, in fact, there was no living, let alone a better life until this government came to power, and especially not in the islands. Because how to interpret that in the last two years we have fewer inhabitants on the islands than there were two years ago, today there are significantly fewer. Second quote. It is incorrect that only 2009 will Croatian citizens become more unfavourable towards the citizens of the European Union. Unfortunately, they are still in a more unfavourable position today for a simple reason because of payment opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58404	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58405	Well, a colleague of Shime Luchin hurt Article 209. The Rules of Procedure didn't correct my statements because I didn't say that the islands didn't live, it's a completely absurd colleague you're saying. And it's incorrect what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58406	Also a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58407	...that Article 209 I was not correcting any statements but the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58408	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is a colleague, Matušić, who has made a number of incorrect claims, and among them it is particularly important that only the arrival of this government has brought concrete care to the islands. In fact, this is completely incorrect and thus mentions the CEP4 programme of course, so the Central European Bank programme for the resolution of infrastructure and other things on the islands. The concrete concern for islands was just started by the regulation of the last government on the return of part of the income tax when the concrete state returned some of the tax resources to the islands and could have dealt with something concrete, and the CEP4 was actually a continuation and then the programme started. And another incorrect allegation, that is, that you mentioned that the Internet offers exactly the properties that we are talking about today. I can tell you that according to my information between us here in the assembly there is a person who is co-owner of such an agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58410	Thank you very much. I prefer the competition who did more, it's very good and let's keep doing it all over the lines. Neven Mimica, Mr. Neven Mimica for replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Reciprocity is a two-way relationship when Croatia has, in a specific case, the European Union then has as a partner the country or citizens who have, which give a completely liberal approach to its real estate market, i.e. at least 20 European Union countries do so. Therefore, in our particular case, reciprocity is equal to liberalisation for 20 Member States of the European Union. Therefore, and on 1 February 2009, when the condition of reciprocity is lifted, Croatian citizens in these countries will be able to buy property freely, because these 20 EU countries not only allow free acquisition of real estate for citizens of EU member states but also for third-country nationals. Therefore, it is not too much of a claim that it is in whole, that Croatian citizens will be discriminated against in the approach of the real estate market in the European Union. And finally, I would really like to welcome the recognition that the HDZ Government has done nothing for the islands in the first ten years, that this HDZ government has just begun to do since 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58412	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58413	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it seems that some in this House don't know that today the European Union numbers 25 members, not 20. So it can't be equal to 20 over 25 and it can't be just 3% of the population, it's not 3% of the population, it's something more, not a little more. Therefore, 5 Member States have a restrictions on Croatian citizens and will have them in 2009 and Croatia will have to sell real estate to those same citizens, regardless of what it will not be able to do, its citizens will not be able to buy in their countries. So that is exactly what we see discrimination against Croatian citizens. Of course, as for those previous HDZ governments from 90 to 2000, so let me remind you that a lot has been done both in that period and in the islands, but I will remind you that these Croatian Democratic Communities governments have faced the fact that a Croatian state should have been created. I'll remind you the same thing that your party left this House on June 25th, 91, because she didn't want to support an initiative for the independence of Croatia. We are therefore moving forward with the fact that the Croatian state should have defended itself and should have freed occupied areas, so this peaceful integration ended you know when, just before you took over 2000, and in 99th, the Croatian Government also passed the Law on Islands, strategic law and national development for islands aimed in the right direction, and we are continuing our colleague Mimica today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58414	Replica, Mr. Representative Miomir Zuzul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58415	Thank you very much. Mr Matesic spoke in his presentation on the lack of reciprocity and liberalisation, and then in the replicas we heard the intentional or unintentional silence of the issue again. The first notorna is the truth that in February 2009 not 3%, not 5%, but 100% of European Union citizens will have unconditional rights in the Republic of Croatia. Full point, the way things are now. Reciprocity is a completely different mechanism in international relations. Reciprocity is a mechanism in which two states or one country or one organisation of countries such as the European Union negotiate with each other on how to regulate law and reciprocity protects itself between the other and the identity of that country. What the state is going to put into it, what it won't, it's a matter of every state. At this point, Croatia has, in mind, I'm talking, so I can't, don't catch me by a precise number, 14 or 15 different models of reciprocity and other countries have it. However, full liberalisation introduced unilaterally is indeed discrimination against the other side. In other words, in early 2009, the legal citizens of the Croatian state will be discriminated against, negatively discriminated over the fact that the other side has all the unlimited rights in Croatia, and Croatian citizens will not have them because it has not yet become the heritage of those rights because it has not entered the European Union and Mr Lucin has nothing to do with purchasing power, purchasing power is something else. I am convinced that most colleagues on the other hand know this well, and I am pleading instead of bickering over the notorious things from the literal textbooks of diplomacy, to try to change in common efforts what can possibly be changed through negotiations, and what almost all the new members of the European Union have done anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58416	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58417	Mr. Zuzul has injured 209. The Rules of Procedure, since he's replicated to me, and he's reporting for a replica of his party colleague. Mr. Zuzul, it has nothing but a connection to material possibilities. You can open all rights to Croatian citizens, but if they don't have the money to buy those rights, then we can all take a picture together. Let's work a little bit on making Croatian citizens a little more money.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58418	If Mr. Zuzul has hurt the Rules of Procedure and you are now. So it's in the replica, it's a broad term and it's possible to use arguments. We've never been able to limit that, and you've expanded your breach of the Rules of Procedure accordingly to Mr. Zuzul. I'm going over it because it's known that I've never been so petty about whether something is right or not 100% right. We still have a reply to the replica, reply to the replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Zuzul explained exactly the difference between reciprocity and the liberalisation of the real estate market. But I must say here to the public that the Croatian Democratic Community, just as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was being brought, was against such a hasty solution because we were aware of the long-term consequences. And unfortunately, the only thing we have left now is to try through this phase of negotiations what was signed a few years ago by the former government, to try to make it right. Of course we're in a much harder situation today than we were when we went to sign such an agreement. Therefore, it is possible to do certain things through negotiations, but as far as possible to correct what was done badly before, it is now a second question. And as for the purchasing power mentioned by counterpart Zuzul, certainly this improvement of the Law on Islands and our citizens on the islands will come into a better position and that their standard and these projects themselves and all these changes will come into a better position. They are better able to buy as much property as possible in Croatia as possible. And that way and enrich yourself and, of course, your country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58420	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58421	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So when a man gets a debate like this somewhere on the 14th or 15th, in principle, these predecessors have taken away a good part of it, but it's actually carrying some kind of privilege that you can look back on everything that's been said before. I mean, what was said before seems to me that no one has disputed the good intentions actually and the good cause of this Law and it is not really controversial. This debate has shown that this Law is necessary and that it does bring certain improvements and should in any case be supported. These small uninhabited and occasionally populated islands of 746 are indeed a great wealth of the Republic of Croatia and, as we see each year, every next tourist season is the best, better than all the previous ones. Croatia is actually becoming, it is undoubtedly, a hit. Unfortunately, it brings some other side of the medals like any medal has a face and a face, which has brought us certain fears that we will sell out. That the properties on our coast, our islands will be sold out and therefore this law is quite welcome and the central question that everyone is actually touching is the right of the first purchase. In any case, it is very important that this issue is and it will be a very important document as provided for in Article 27, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to adopt a state programme for the protection and use of small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands and the surrounding sea. It is a very important document and it would be very good, what was said yesterday in the debate, perhaps with some future amendments to the law because of course this regulates the issue of small islands, occasionally inhabited or uninhabited. When some next change is made to actually deliver a report saying that we are not overplaying that the government has invested more. It doesn't matter, it's all Croatian governments. It is important to see what the effects of all the measures that have been taken so far and how much resources and resources have been invested in the islands and where there is still a reserve that can be, of course there is a lot of it. There were a lot of good suggestions in this debate. What I have heard and related to formal matters in this law and the central question that is certainly all of us is the question, first question. On the one hand, we actually have our Constitution guaranteed in Article 48. The Constitution guarantees the right to private ownership. It is, as we say, a constitutional order that is difficult to bypass. On the other hand, in Article 52, we also have a provision that says that islands are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia. So we have a two-value competition where it needs to be reconciled. Here this Law suggests when the owner of a property on a small island uninhabited or occasionally resident wants to sell the property, that he is obliged to offer it first to the Republic of Croatia and within 30 days, unless the Republic of Croatia accepts a further 30 days offer to the county. After these 30 days within 30 days of the municipality or the city. Here, I must say, I agree with colleagues who have noticed and my colleague Mimica has noticed that this is a little complicated. Because when we go to restrictions, in principle of private ownership, we have to try really to make such standards that the less we actually bother and the less we interfere with the use of this private property. Here in that spirit, I've made one amendment that I've given here and the amendment would actually consist of the owner of the land making at the same time this offer that he himself will form which I think is correct that I set that price. That he also sends the offer to the Republic of Croatia, and to the county, both the city and the municipalities. So, all these three addresses. And all these entities under my amendment would be obliged within one period of time to mean 30 days from the day they received the answer and to say whether or not they accept such an offer. Now the first right means someone will answer to accept, someone not to accept or all three can accept it, but the first right would mean primarily the Republic of Croatia, then the county, municipalities or the city. It doesn't matter, I think that we would actually help citizens because this whole procedure 30 plus 30 is another 30 when you take and deliver it in the mail it actually comes to you at over 100 and now that a man enters a cycle of shopping and if it lasts more than 100 days with these deliveries, returns when someone has received and hasn't received in principle a lot of time, and maybe it gets negative answers at all addresses and we're actually staying in some new cycle where they're going to lower the price or something. I also heard they had colleagues and amendments to that article 35d. where there is a need to limit actually the county, the city and the municipality which I also think is a quality amendment that the government should absolutely accept. It was also here, my colleague Anticevic mentioned it to me, and the problem of the donation seems to be. I don't think it would be a bad one to install where you actually would limit actually the right to donate to a narrow circle of people. So on the other hand, I think that this is a very good law, that the law has very good intentions, that we should support it, and all these amendments, the government should look at them carefully, because they are all made with good intentions and I think that, with a few amendments that have been accepted, we can significantly correct that text, so, Mr. Vice-President, I accept this Act and I think you will be reasonable and some amendments will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58422	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58423	Mr. Vice President. Well, I could have replicated it to anyone, but here we are getting close to the end, so I chose my colleague Bosnjakovic. Actually, I don't think with this law we're going to get anything because everything worth selling is on the islands. Take a look at tourist complexes with all the properties they own today. So everything that meant something in terms of value on the islands went away a long time ago, I don't know what year ago, I guess, before '95. And if you don't believe look at this, just look... And the fish factory that went to Serbia not to say tourist complexes on Korčula, Hvar, Brač, what I know about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whose property they're in, so we see it, and then we'll know everything that's going on, you know, it's not just tourist complexes, it's real estate that's connected to these complexes, and we're actually what we're doing today? We're doing it to get a small man to get the constitutional right to sell something of his. We limit his right to various plans, which the Government has limited by a regulation, and we reduce the value of these properties to him. Unfortunately, I don't see any reason to say that at 50 or 20 acres of olive groves are not allowed to build ground and floor, say on one thousand square meters to say 20 acres, but we don't. We think, and I don't know what we think we're going to keep that population that is less than a note every day than a few islands, on islands in measures that seem bad to me because I'm going to tell you something. Do you know when the population was increased in Komiža? When the Dalmatian burners mobilized the girls to work at the fish factory. ... I'll drive because they got married there, so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They didn't marry each other, and they increased the population, and what do we have today? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have an old population. ... Yeah, well, one more word I'd like to say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's about purchasing power. You know, don't complain about the purchasing power of the Croats because they're here because they have houses in Washington, here. So those who will buy very well, believe me very well are... and can buy whatever you want in Croatia and the world, regardless of what Croatian passports have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58424	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58425	My colleague Marasovic chose me, and here I am going to answer the same question. I can't agree with you, you know, that we're actually limiting the owner and reducing the value of the property, and that's kind of a goal. We are, in fact, protecting the general interest of the Republic of Croatia by this law and these institutes, that is the point and that is the point, and the owner means when he intends to sell it he will determine, he will offer what the price is and if this technology is accepted in fact that he can do so with the Republic of Croatia, the county, the city and the municipality to resolve within 30 days if none of them accepts, he can therefore go very quickly to the second round, in principle to make another offer. So I think the point of the Law is actually to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and as regards private ownership and the Constitution has actually said that private property can be restricted in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58426	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zvonimir Sabati's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58427	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although I'm first of all a proud Varazdinac, if someone's already throwing their country's son here, I'm proud of it. After all, the last six years I've been a little Omishan, so... The municipality of Omisalj, the island of Krk where I certainly enjoy the beauty, peace, quiet, but I also have the opportunity to watch, but not really enjoy the huge tankers that come and unload huge amounts of crude oil, but I wouldn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, on... Adria's getting ready for you now and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] gas, which is the door to the entrance to the island of Krk, Cres, Mali and Veli Losinj, but this is not only a problem of Kvarner Bay but much wider. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this real introduction throws a little shadow at the introduction of an assessment of the situation where the islands say they are designated as good of interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. Islands are highly sensitive ecological units that are now relatively well preserved. Compared to Greece, Turkey, Spain, not to list further, we really have the right to undistributed wealth and to protect it, it really needs to be declared that it is the protection of national interests. Yet, above all else, there are many alarming thesis. There's less and less on the islands... , they stayed mostly nursing households. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a lack of good municipal infrastructure. I can freely say that even a certain number of islanders are not entirely healthy drinking water. The question is, how are the roads? What's the current? There is also not enough good connection of the island to the mainland even though we can say that we are close to some standards but we can certainly agree all together that there is very bad or that there is almost no connection of the island to the island. And that state should focus its interest in the development of the island and the preservation of national interests. I personally doubt that the municipality, county or state will better protect their own interests than the islanders themselves. It's their grandfatherhood, and most of them certainly don't want to sell their land. So, my first thesis is that there are other ways to preserve national interests and so far shown "models" to help the islanders have not really given God any results. Why don't the state give guarantees for loans, for their initiatives, for islanders' initiatives? Why not properly connect the islands to each other, subsidize the transport of the islanders? Why not secure from the state budget a better standard for islanders through municipal infrastructure but also by creating conditions for staying and survival because without life on islands every activity of the state is questionable. I believe that there is no reason for the urgency of the procedure because a series of envisaged sublaws can be prepared in parallel. I would especially like to stress that it would be more important to establish the maritime well-being. At this point, I'm sure it's one of the priority tasks. It is also unacceptable to marginalise the role of this High House in this way, as Article 7 of the existing Article 12 is deleted, or the rights reached in line coastal transport, before the adoption of the Public Transport Act in line with coastal maritime transport. We cannot predict in advance, let alone how the Croatian Parliament will then be determined according to that law. The proposal for amending and supplementing the law sets out the first purchase procedure but I am not sure that we will thus avoid shagging the owners in the first purchase process and on the long-term first purchase process, even if the potential validation of the value of the assets. I am also not sure that we will avoid any changes and additions already to this proposed emergency procedure law because the programme that needs to be drawn up over a year will certainly provide solutions that will require adaptation and thus amend this law that we are now discussing and which is proposed by an urgent procedure. As a third, several colleagues and colleagues expressed their doubts in Article 8 of this proposal or Article 13. It is necessary to accept the islanders' initiative not to extend these changes and additions to the laws of a kind of petty game by artificial means. And finally, let me make a personal statement. I am certainly soul and heart for the protection of national interests because I want to come as I have so far to our beautiful islands, coasts and I want to hear how it's spoken in domestic terms and not that we're going to need a translator to communicate with our neighbor. I want to prevent devastation and islands and shores. I want to prevent possible ecological disasters, pollution. I want to hear the crying and laughing of little islanders and there's more and more of them. I want tourism and agriculture to ensure all of us a high standard because we have God-given wealth. Therefore, the idea of going with this proposal to a second reading should not be rejected and the best solution should be given. And that is why it would be good for us in this broad debate to enable both islanders and various associations, including all of us who are here, so to political parties, to bring a really consensus on the best solution and to all set ourselves on this issue as a truly real national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58428	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58429	Thank you very much. Here, my colleague Vresk was talking about alochton in one part. Excuse me. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] In one part, Mr. Sabati mentioned some kind of alochton game, which, of course, is not good for them to be on islands. So in that sense, I'd like to tell you a story of life from one of our islands that happened on that particular subject. Namely, the Croatian forests had been hammocking a flower of beauty on one of our islands and, of course, they couldn't express how you said you were going home to deal with the local sheep that naturally brushed those plants. It's about blacks, pines, etc. And they allegedly thought it was the story that came up with the misery, and to solve the sheep problem, they brought the island to the coals. And one of the shepherds, not knowing the nature of those bricks, found one sheep, poisoned it, and thought that the coals would eat that dead sheep. But it happened the other way around. That poisoned sheep was seen by soups, poisoned, and there was a huge disaster. Furthermore, by not being able to cope with the coals of local hunters and the shepherds have approached a more sophisticated way of poisoning these coals through the placing of small baits and invisibles. And what happened? The baits, of course, found owls, found rabbits, found other such small animals, ravens, crows, and so forth. And what happened in the end? What happened was there were rats breeding on that island of ours. And what's possible? There may be some sort of epidemic of the unknown species. What do I mean by that? I'm just saying this because of what can happen when it unthinkably enters an eco system of a kind of area like our island. And that there should be extra careful and careful to prevent it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58430	Thank you very much. Mr. Sabati's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I did not take this as a replica, however, but I must point out once again that speaking with my friend and head of Vrbnik municipality, Mr. Franjo Toljanic, I have received a whole series of data. And by the way, speaking of some kind of event, when I first came to the small... On Omisalj, a little visit I first met there a whole series of sheep and a little lamb and it certainly confirms what you were saying and I'm betting that the islanders are talking about what needs to be done there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58432	Thank you. Another replica of Mr. Anton Perushko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58433	Well, I had the most serious intention of not taking part in this debate because of some of my reservations and attitudes in relation to this law, but my colleague Sabati said that we should keep our language, but he said another finding that by limiting the ownership of small people, he doubted that the state would be a better protector of interest. I absolutely agree with that, and I think there's a lot of other instruments, so I'm going to try to display the movement of ownership in these areas what actually happened? Let's take this if you want to go back to ancient times or before, before the 7th century, before the arrival of the Croats on the Adriatic, who ruled these Adriatic areas? Ancient Greek colonizers, the Roman Empire and the Illyrian-Celtian tribes, right? By 1945, property-law and every other relationship in these areas that they'd been getting rid of? The power of weapons and those weapons of Turkish, Hungarian, French, Italian, Roman, German, and I don't know who. From 1945 to 1990 and not only until 1990 and 1995, until the mid-1990s, Croatia was a real owner of these areas and in one extremely negative if you want to make sense, so that foreigners could not, for example, reach Brione, Lastovo, Vis and so on. But what's happened since then? Starting mass privatisation and selling out what happened? Who's the real owner today? Informal but real of these spaces that we're talking about? Foreigners. We rescheduled banks with taxpayers' funds, 98% sold them to foreigners, and now they're actually the owners of these premises, and now here these, some of the norms we bring, going to the expense of a small man and limiting ownership like a colleague, Mimica said, "There's no other way out." No, we'll take it too. But it doesn't solve it. And especially this Law is insufficient and insufficiently articulated and there are a large number of amendments, I have seen from fellow Bosniaks and others who are circulating here and we have to adopt them, and I think that everything that my colleague Ingrid said in her debate should be turned into amendments or the best law sent to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58434	Thank you. Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Agent Ante Markov's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58435	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, will be assisted by ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This theme always causes different feelings, different feelings. This topic always has a direction of movement to try to find a reason not to talk about serious problems on the sidelines. This law, amendments and additions have come to the agenda and the government is under public pressure because of the exceptional public interest, because of a strong perception that it is necessary to do something to protect the Croatian islands, the real estate has come to changes and supplements to try to reconcile public perceptions and the great interest of the public of course and the protection of national interests and to try to reconcile this one relationship in this way. Of course, different ways can be viewed in the context of the debate on islands. One debate that certainly has our viewers watching through TV screens, which lives on islands, which are fatefully tied to the islands, and which also have properties on these islands, they are certainly now in some way in one doubt, in one dilemma. The task of each law is simply to solve the problem, to create a road that will solve the problem. It needs to reconcile the interests of unquestioned ownership that exist, the interests of the country that we save you the most valuable values we have for future generations. And now in this very complicated framework, how do you find the best answer to address these questions? Very difficult. It's very difficult for the reason things are standing, everything is conditioned by something. Neither this amended bill nor the protection that can follow in terms of the ban on selling real estate to foreigners, nor the instruments that local self-government can prescribe on its own are sufficient to achieve the full objective. The full goal that is simply to be achieved cannot stem from the ban on transfer of ownership. The transfer of ownership in the market position is unquestioned. Its position must be met by those measures which partially contain these amendments and amendments to the law. It is unquestionable that the plan to be made within a year must make it clear what interests are and what positions of the Adriatic islands the state wants to enter into ownership, it wants to buy through the first purchase or certain reservation of those properties or islands and thus protect a certain global interest. What is, of course, the most difficult to understand from the position of the owner or the man who lives on the island is why the right of ownership is denied and the right to claim credit when you want to place your own property as a deposit. For those who are on islands and without any problem are bought factories, banks are bought, also valuable properties are bought, valuable positions in market traffic, and the traffic of real estate on Adriatic islands is subject to a single regime which I say again is not enough and will not fulfil that role and the task of course the public expects of it, and that in 50 or 100 years Croatian islands are not owned by foreigners. This won't stop this transfer of ownership because they're tracking a local natural person and a foreign natural person, if you're looking at the perspective of the future then they're almost the same person. You simply won't have the elements in this way to resolve this very complicated dilemma. Second. If we deny the right to those who have property on the islands, and if we agree that they too need to bear that burden in order to solve this problem more fairly and for the country better, then let us give those owners of the property of certain benefits that they must have because they have a restricted right that all other property owners have. That is why I propose to think about it, and in this sense I have submitted an amendment to establish an island guarantee fund that is about to rest and be there for those property owners who want to raise or raise a loan for certain economic activity, and the only thing they can advocate is real estate, to make a fiduciation over that property, that they are precisely using such a guarantee fund from which they will be able to obtain those rights that all other property owners in the Republic of Croatia have anyway. Thus, through that island guarantee fund, they would return the original right they have. And believe me, all the property owners on the islands of Croatia compared to asking them if they would sooner sell at the same market price to their country or any natural or legal person, I am sure that they will all opt for the state sooner. But they expect it to be true, that it is not just legal qualms that nothing can happen, that is, to stop legal traffic. Because today you have a condition that land books are in such a state on our islands, that it is simply very difficult for you to get a land book excerpt, because it is completely unsolved. Here, let me just tell you in the premises of the Kornati-Yellow-Sin Group she was bought 150 years ago by an Italian owner in Zadar. So this is a positive example of how we Croats bought from the Italians and this yellow group 150 years ago, and Kornate 130 years ago, we bought from them. You see, of these, 150 and 130 years of land books have not experienced any change. There was an economic right to inherit that actually better preserved those properties and those islands better than we will succeed with all the legal forces to preserve them. And the right to inherit was clear. It's inherited by the line. At first, it was only a male line clearly. Today it's changed a bit, but not entirely. But wait! But protection, protection and property were unquestionable under these and such circumstances and under the circumstances of the communist Yugoslavia and under the circumstances of the older Yugoslavia. So the real estate and the way of natural law was so solid that it preserved that property. Our concern is that we continue such a course of things under new circumstances by respecting the fact that today, even on the island, gentlemen without money cannot live, that even on an island without a deposit you can't get a loan, that you need real estate, that you need everything you need anywhere else. If we deny it, if we don't give it to the islanders and property owners, then let's give them the other side the possibility that through the island guarantee fund, they'll exercise the same rights that everyone else has. That's the only way they'll be able to believe the seriousness of these measures that I hold to be good. It's completely irrelevant for me to talk about mufflons and bricks and everything, because it's not a story measure. It's a margin that wants to entertain some public, etc. The content of this story is in serious access, serious states, so that the most valuable resources are preserved, but also people. People on islands are just as resourceful as real estate. Because without people, that resource will be worth far less. He'll be less recognizable and he won't cause this kind of debate. Therefore, we must preserve the people of the islands. We must also preserve the property, and in order to do so, we must open up equal legal space for those owners who have preserved this space through all these times and today we can discuss it as the best quality Croatian space. So, just because they've done it to this day, let's be those heiress who'll pass it on for tomorrow just as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58436	Thank you. We have five, six replicas. First, a respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58437	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. My colleague Markov, you were talking about how certain the inevitability of real estate sales is and how this first purchase is going to do a lot of things. Me and my colleagues at the HSP Club think the first one is still a good model. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement stipulates that a foreigner can establish a branch office in Croatia and that the company can buy. And that's what's happening right now, and even that's what companies from these countries are doing, who are currently complaining about not having free access to Croatian real estate. This Regulation shall enter However, the agreement foresees public interest as a protection, and this is precisely the basis for which this first-price right concept should have been long gone. The right of first purchase usually exists in cultural goods, and islands are first-class in terms of defining Croatia's identity. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution declares them as parts of Croatia of special interest and enjoys its special protection as well as all other cultural historical heritage. Therefore, it is logical to apply this same model. That is why HSP proposed its Bill of Property in 2004, which we were about to introduce the first purchase right if someone buys more than a quarter of an island. It means, of course, not the island of Brac or Hvar, but in the first row of these small islands. Unfortunately, that wasn't adopted by the government then, but I'm glad it's all finally on the agenda. Otherwise, this bill has so many questionable parts, that we at the club think it would be best if the law went to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58438	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58439	Well, colleague Tadic, we're no different than to hold the Institute's first ransom good. The first one is good, but I think we agree that he alone will not solve the strength of the problem that we are facing. He's as good as an instrument, and let's use him as a tool. But let's use it in a way that we can create an elaborate plan in which we will recognize precisely what is the interest of the state and what is not the interest of the state. Of course, what is the interest of the state will immediately apply this tool and state resources should be allocated to those parts. What is not at this point the primary interest of the state should be protected by other measures. One measure is reviving the economy and putting those property owners on the islands in an equal legal financial position with all those who want to inherit them. So we have to get back to the islands. We must create on the islands such a relationship in which real estate will not be sold at 3, 4, 5 or 10 euros, which is unfortunately the case today, it is not spoken of. You know, even when you sell such a 5-euro property, you won't talk about it because you're a little embarrassed. Therefore, we had to talk seriously about these problems, and this institution can absolutely be used to be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58440	Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58441	Mr. Markov says that the transfer of ownership is unquestioned. Well, that's why we need to pass this law, because everything was actually going on beyond the rules, it was going around the little door. Take a look at the advertising section in "The People's Newspaper" so you will see how many companies are established daily for real estate transport. And it was just going that way and that the Hungarians and other meanings were coming and buying that part, past the reciprocity and other legal instruments. It is not the same situation, of course, that one day there will be liberalisation of the real estate market in Croatia. But it is not the same situation if Croatia is within the European Union and if it is not. Then it will not be 7 euros, but it will be the same as 100 euros as in Paris or other areas. That's a big difference. And, of course, we're too late to pass these laws. So if we had gotten this before, this situation wouldn't have happened. Because we're going to be looking for official data, so you're going to see a far greater number of real estate sold this way by procurative, by respecting companies than it is officially. We only have official data from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the judiciary regarding the one where they give approval through reciprocity and these other variants. And in fact, in the real situation far more unfavourable for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58442	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58443	Thank you very much. Col. Kovacevic, absolute reciprocity in the total property sales ratio is only 3.5% according to statistical data. The rest of the waste is unfortunately on, we can't even call it blurry jobs, but we can call inquests. Questionnaires, regardless of what the Law on Commercial Society at this point provides for the possibility of doing so. But for Croatia at this time it is not acceptable for us to have open companies over a thousand and something that are exclusively intended and they see their interest in buying a property that serves the person who owns the company, and the person who owns the company can be, by our law, a stranger and the exclusive task of the company is to create a property relationship. Therefore, we already have a very difficult situation, and I think that amendments to a whole series of laws, including the Company Act, or if this can be regulated in the existing law that such things do not happen, we must prevent such actions. Such actions, seen economically from the aspect of the Croatian state that wants to take taxes, are also unacceptable. Because if you're looking at the status of that property, if you're looking at the fact that there's no tax on it, if you're looking at the whole aspect of that legal story, then you see that it's a fixed company that's actually very rich, and it's just waiting for expansion to come out and it's coming in as much as possible. And it is evident that prices in 4, 5 or 10 years, and the capital is not in a hurry, because in real estate it does not fail, but rather, it accumulates its value so much that it is difficult today to assess as much as so-called. such ficus companies have value from total firms. They may have crossed the value of all other companies that operate and are engaged in certain businesses in the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58444	Third replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58445	What shall we do, gentlemen, with Article 3? The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which, among other things, speaks of the integrity of ownership? Whether this Article 3 guarantees only someone the safety of some communist expropriations of protection from some violent usurpation, the security of the availability of these properties that, for example, sheep can grow on that island, or that means freedom of estrangement, clearly along with those rules that will set up the state, pay taxes, etc.? So the fundamental question is, who has the right to defend Anti, Mark, Perry, Yuri or don't know who to sell theirs to? And why do they make these people and talk to no one about it? And they're probably selling so they can solve their existence. Who in Croatia can buy some real estate worth a million, two or three million euros at this time? I can buy first of all these from that construction mob and I can buy tycoons, Croatian tycoons that we created there in the early '90s. The Croatian local self-government will certainly not be able to buy either islands, or any other cultural goods, etc. The question is also, does this law, as such, correspond with the islanders? Has anyone ever wondered what the islanders think about disposing, available with their properties? Would they agree to defend the alienation of these properties? Can we forbid them? Can we indirectly destroy the islanders in such a way? I know no one wants to. But the fundamental question is whether such a law is constitutional, is it then enforceable, does the state local self-government have money, is it going to buy out which island or will it all eventually come down to just a dead letter on paper? Finally, the value of real estate in the Republic of Croatia achieved a price higher than in Manhattan, I suppose. Today, a cheaper island can be bought in one France or somewhere else in the Mediterranean than in the Republic of Croatia. And let's keep it that way, but the question is, can you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58446	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58447	Comrade Cain, the first one is not forbidden. It's not a ban that's one instrument that we're trying to bring very simple things together. If I want to sell my island, let's say my family has it, but we're not gonna sell it well, then whether I sell it to my country or sell it under the same conditions to another legal person, Dame Kajin. Of course, then anyone can decide what they want, and this law says that under the same conditions, the state has the right to do so. As far as I'm concerned, there is no doubt or dilemma in the island population. There's doubt and dilemma on that side. To what extent this is seriously what it says, to what extent this and how fast it will be able to respect, when we will determine the coastal belt, when we will distinguish which is the first plot to the sea, when we will bring land books to order that we know what our property is, in one word when we will become normal citizens and when the islanders will be able to say that they are not the poor who live on a gold mine, and unfortunately they are today the poor who live on a gold mine and that is the main question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58448	The next replica is the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58449	Well, Markov pointed out something that might be most interesting, to talk about protecting real estate, protecting things, and not a lot of people asking about people, about those people. It is therefore essential that a colleague, Markov, also points out, that people should be protected. It is also true that national interest cannot be exercised, i.e. protection of national interest, through strictness and specific even conditions for our islanders, who are the owners of that land. Not because they bought it, but because they inherited it from their fathers, fathers, and grandfathers, and now they are poored and forced to sell it with their own free will and not happily. Only here is a little replica of what you're saying, it's hard to get a ZK extract today. It's not a problem to get a ZK excerpt. The problem is that the ZK excerpt can be obtained quickly, but the thing is that we boast needlessly because the whole project that started the former government went the wrong way and the money is being spent in the wrong direction. To copy incorrect things into digital form. The point is that a land-book excerpt shows a real state and you don't get it fast, you get a ZK excerpt where your last entry is in 1898 and what you're going to do with it. So that's the problem. But the problem is that we cannot, by this law, do not, exactly the kind of situation that is most often on our islands, but not by the guilt of the state but by the other scattered owners because we have sown the parcels and the inheritance, and so many countries and in this water of order, is precisely that these owners, the real owners, do not come into a more unfavourable position than other real owners who have also failed to bring the land-book situation into line with the real situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58450	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58451	Thank you, dear colleague Ingrid. That is right, we agree that humans are of equal value and that in nature, especially in islands, they make an indivisible relationship of nature, God, and humans, and that is especially true in the islands. So everything we do and give these people, we give them nature, we give that protection, we give it value preservation, but on one side we protect those values that we want to protect first. Thus, the strength of the people on the islands, the demographic policy that should go on the upward line, the creation of better living conditions will certainly strengthen itself and otherwise a sufficiently patriotic line that has always been an obstacle and a dam for all those who wanted to buy, all those who wanted to be kidnapped or those who wanted to adopt. Therefore, investment in people is exactly an investment in space, investment in the future, an investment in which such law institutions will only improve the performance of action and will not be the main creators because they cannot be the main creator. People have to be the ones to come up with life, and they know very well that they're in the most beautiful part of the world. They know very well that this most beautiful part of the world is not ready to miss or give to others.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58452	Dear Representative Zdenko Antešić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58453	In his inspired talk, a colleague Markov mentioned well the care of people. But look, so far, we're talking about it in a statement. We're full of mouths here lately of concreteization, apartmentization, sale, devastation, and clearly this bill is politically very profitable because to say under quotes, to God prevents the sale of real estate to foreigners and, in fact, the intensity of that law, and that's it. But surely in such a way, these results will not be obtained. What's right, Mr. Markov, is what you said, so the state's concern is not just islands, the country. The most important concerns are people. And people, especially about islands are not guided at the level of declarative parole care, or people down are important first, a) jobs, second (a) traffic connection or vice versa, but one with another and connected and without it there is no survival of life. And now look, we in the islands have, first of all, a restrictive Law on spatial planning, a Government Regulation on a protected belt restrictively, now a restrictive way of transferring property rights, closing our jobs at the first office of the state administration, then the postal offices, etc. Let's take the elemental thing that I can't go to my island after 10 o'clock a night. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in an unequal position in relation to one, that someone is not offended, from Zapresic who can go there whenever he wants and when he comes. And now all the more reason why I say this, that concrete measures should be taken to take care of the islanders, and in this way we will also take care of the islands because they are the ones who will keep the islands alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58454	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58455	.... /Gvornik subsequently included./...of course these are concepts which are not in Croatia today, do not have a favourable connotation. They have a very negative sound, but you know that in the last 40 years, you haven't moved from your house down to the tavern in the basement, so you rented it, and you haven't been able to find yourself on the islands in a variety of ways, so maybe the demographic image would look far worse than it is. Hence, the force determines the way of conduct, and the force says neither prays to God. It is therefore very difficult to speak critically today about some phenomena, even in space, and also in the area above the islands, because today they say we sail the coast and see an ugly little house in the stone, and next to it is a beautiful villa that fits in beautifully. Of course, this guy had money, so he set it up, this poor guy had nothing but built it in the stone the way he could. And today he turns out to be a problem in that spatial plan because in that satellite picture or plane, he doesn't see at all, but he thinks there's a bunch underneath. And then he says he doesn't even have one. You understand? It's easy to speak from the position of power and position when you have. But on the islands, those stories didn't look the same today 50 years ago. So we have to have feelings and we have to have this one social component in everything, including spatial planning. And in spatial planning, we must consider a social aspect. Is this where our citizen lives, does he have a family, does he have an alternative or has no alternative? These are actually key questions that give a more correct answer than the spatial plan itself that says, it's forbidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58456	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58457	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I personally advocate and support the right to first buy. However, this right should also apply to property owned by municipalities, counties and cities. And more importantly, I wonder if the owner of the property that comes to his papers within three months could sell further if that owner doesn't sell by any chance that property, how much this opinion will apply. Is it a year, 2, 3 or 5? It's one of the questions that is not clear in this law, and I think we should clarify them. Does the government already know which islands they'll buy, and if they don't know when they'll know? I think these are very important questions for the bill, and I especially don't like that it's an emergency procedure. And I don't think from this proposal here he's matured this Emergency Procedure Act and that today or tomorrow it's confirmed. What if the state doesn't care about an island or part of the island this year, and in five years' time, it'll be of vital interest to the state. In a year, the state may refuse to buy from a private, and in five years it may be of vital interest. What are the deadlines, will that be, ask again, in a year, two or five? I think it should be clearly installed in this Law that every Croatian citizen and we here, and I mean colleagues and colleagues, and the public should not be indeterminate in this Law but should be all clear and clear. So, I support this law, only this indeterminateness to correct itself and to go to another reading for the sake of better law-making. Gentlemen, the article 17 hasn't been discussed at all. I don't know why. I think the only thing that matters here is the islands, who's gonna buy those islands, who's gonna handle them, and the islanders themselves think they're less important. I'll read article 17. "The government of the Republic of Croatia brings the following state programmes for the development of the island, with the previous opinion of the island council, the Committee for the Islands and the agencies, in the text below: the state programme." I'll just read some points that I think are very important and quality. "The state transport programme of the island to land and to each other and within the island transport connection. The programme is adopted on a proposal by the Ministry of Environment Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of Finance. The state water supply programme, disposal and treatment of waste water, as well as the construction and maintenance of water protection facilities on the island, the programme is adopted on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the water economy, and developed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Economy, the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning, Construction and the Ministry of Finance." I don't need to read all these suggestions, but I'm going to read another article 13: "The state program of arrangements of property and property law records, catastra and land books on islands. The programme is adopted on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, and is developed by the Ministry of Justice, the State Geodetic Administration, the Central State Office for Administration and the Ministry of Finance." I'm curious, gentlemen, this is a wonderful thing to say, and that's what needs to be done. I'm curious, the deadlines, what are those deadlines, when are they going to start? When these suggestions will first be made, let alone when they will be implemented and when they will come into life so that the islanders can solve their life’s problems. I'll remind you of some of them. More lines for the island. You know that with 2 lines for island people from the island can't work on land. Therefore, we prevent these people from having a basic right to work. Is it possible that islands today exist with two lines a day? How will they go to the Catastre, to court any problems of theirs to solve? I'm telling you, hard and impossible. It's just one thing. Rehabilitation and construction of the waterfront. Property problems, cadastre, grant, antiquated infrastructure, resources for undeveloped islands go directly to the accounts and to the availability of the islanders. I'll tell you that we have a municipality, we have a county where the funds come in, and then half a year, a year, maybe more, and the county and the municipalities have these resources, and the islanders either see that money or they don't see that money sometimes. From personal examples and knowledge, I know that. Therefore, if we are already making a proposal, the amendment of this Law should be quality and can be spent on islands and in the lives of these islanders and islands. Let's move on. School, rehab and building new schools? Why the new ones? Well, gentlemen, it's not all so black. I know islands and I know places on islands that with three students we came to 7. There'll be 11 students next year. These people, with a little bit of the will of this government and every other future government, I don't want to discuss the governments at all, but I want to help these people and bring more quality laws here. Everything else I think is not at the level and is not in the interest of these citizens but in the interest of, I don't know, daily political purposes. I don't want any part of it. That's why I'm asking this secretary of state who is present here that this reading would be good, this law, this bill, this bill goes into second reading because of a better solution. Well, it doesn't have to come in a year. Let him come in a month, but if we had the opportunity and time to pursue the best things we know and what we can do. Next, the mail. On the islands did you gentlemen know that a year ago the post office came every day to islands that didn't have their own mail, now comes every other day. So we're not going any better than we're going up. This knowledge of what I am telling you here directly with the islanders, I have personally communicated with the island's inhabitants these days and I have these knowledge of them. So they didn't hear, said, said, but these are the exact data. The work done on the islands of gentlemen is not enough for us to only support companies and workers with some donations, I think that companies and islanders living and working on islands should at least have the advantage that which works are carried out on islands that with some next best offer these people are somehow assured that they will be able to live with their company and with their work. And in the end, I can't say anything but to support this, that this law has its own meaning, it has its own quality and I almost fully support it, but there are some misunderstandings that need to be clarified, and then I think this law should go into another reading to do something really quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58458	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58459	Of course, without state aid, life would have stopped on the islands, but for the islands to develop not only the country's assets, primarily local self-government. And what does that mean? In order for local self-government to reach these funds, the state needs to be decentralised. When did our islands grow the fastest? There's a lot of you out here, and I'm sure you know that. I've been claiming since '74. '90s. year, so according to the '74 Constitution. when Croatia was most decentralised, when our local self-governments or then municipalities had almost 60% of the fiscal resources that were coming into its space, when they chose almost all the key persons, from judges, police chiefs, catastra finances, etc. Today, all of this instead of local self-government, and our islands too, for the sake of the state, and almost nothing in this country, unfortunately, is working. So if we want to develop islands, then we should leave care to that local self-government in that Split or Dalmatian return of the child to the mother. That is certainly what is most important at this time, and there is no willingness here in this House, the government to go decentralisation. So I'm going to say once again, the key to the development of our islands is decentralisation, but also decentralisation is the key to the stability of the Republic of Croatia because these divisions between rich and less rich areas, between developed and less developed areas simply become a factor of destabilisation, not some perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58460	Return the children to your mother, but also to your father. Replication response, Agent Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58461	Well, Mr. counterpart Cain, you're completely wrong, so I'll tell you why. This can go so on the island of Krk where there is a rich island, where there is already infrastructure, where there are frames, where there is one step to the development of the island, but you must know that we have islands with nursing households, with the desire of young people to return there that have no basic means to create a program, let alone something infrastructure that they build themselves. So we have municipalities on the islands that don't simply have a road drawn in the Catastrian plan, they don't have a coast plot, so they can do it and they can go and ask the state for more money to help finance them, they don't have the basic means either for those programs. I think it should be emphasized here that islands should be given to them as large a local administration, self-government, but it's not enough without the help of the state it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58462	Second replica, Honored Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58463	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing about this first right, I think it's basically not bad, and I agree with that, and I think it's like the institute is okay. However, I think that too little is said about it, or too little is important that, in fact, spatial plans, or spatial planning, are in fact almost the only way to protect this space, and I'm afraid there is no willingness in the country to seriously tackle it because I would like to know how many units of local self-government in this area have any spatial plans at all and whether the Government then does not respect the legal obligation to make these units, that these local units be disbursed, or their representative bodies to relax. That's the point of things. So, with spatial plans, we're protecting space and that's the point of everything. And secondly, this may be a non-selective way of accessing the right first buy. Here's an example of Baška Municipality on the island of Krk which is a relatively small municipality, and not so poor has an eye, I'm saying in mind that someone wouldn't be offended by about ten million kunas of budget and will belong to the island of Prvic with ten square kilometers and what is such a municipality with that island? I advocate either that or that such property is offered exclusively to the state or that it is absolutely prohibited by the same model so that it is sold by the units of local self-government of these properties, i.e. the islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58464	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58465	Well, dear fellow in this bill of law, there's still a lot of loose ends, and I haven't been able to say it all, but here's the chance, so I'm going to say it. We have two islands connected to the island, with the bridge, and in different categories of development in this bill. We have the island of Krk which is essentially has mukte transport over the bridge, we also have Peljesac which is a peninsula, belongs to a group of undeveloped islands or peninsulas. Therefore, I think that this bill should go to another reading for all new shortcomings and irregularities, and then only to fulfill its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58466	Honorable representative of Ante Markov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. State support, I think it should be real and different from the island to the island. You have Kornati islands that are simply unrelated, so residents who live permanently on them who otherwise have to say it sent a telegram of support in terms of what I was saying but they have no subsidized transport. So they don't have the same rights as others and they're looking for subsidized transportation, they're looking for supplies to have it, they're looking for certain health care. And believe me, if all of this were to be done together and it should be done because they're in a national park. So the possibility of economic activity is limited in advance. So they have to get certain benefits to be right now the holders of the protection of that space because they cannot develop certain economic activities that are contrary to the national park. So they must be provided free transport, free supply and health care in space. I think, Mr. Secretary of State, that there are differences between such a destination that is pre-determined by protection and a high degree such as a national park and such spaces as other islands where normal lives, communicates etc. Therefore, I think that we need to focus on getting them special care and that they finally feel that they are not citizens of the second and third order just because they live or have property in the national park. I think exactly the opposite, that they should be rewarded for having property and living in a national park.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58468	Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58469	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! Well, I think a large part of the debate has practically come out of what it was intended to be and what the intensity of the clear adoption of this law is. When the issue of islands is raised and the issue of amendments and the addition of the Island Act is raised clearly, then we refer to all those provisions affecting the basic law itself, and often the debate is more relevant to these provisions than to those provisions that apply to themselves and to which this amendment to the Law on Islands applies. I would like to say about this precisely when we are talking about the whole law and all those subsidies, the improvements that the law has made, then we need to list everything that is done in order not to remain a doubt namely that, through this change, only to worry about one part of the needs of the islanders while on the other hand, forgetting about those basic needs. I would like to make it clear that the systematic concern in the Croatian State about islands began by adopting and developing the National Programme for Sustainable Development of the Island and it was practically a fundamental act from which the law was later derived as an implementing act which solved a number of good, quality improvements, subsidies and it seems to me that in a certain way it changes life on Croatian islands. We can say that we are not satisfied, the islanders are not satisfied. We're now completely with everything that's... in the Croatian islands but I dare say that there was no national programme and that there was no Law on the Islands so that today life on the islands would be wherever and where worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk here in this assembly about the terrible depopulation of the island then we must be aware of both the facts and do not bypass it that between the two censuses on Croatian islands, so between 1991 and 2001 the number of inhabitants on Croatian islands has increased. In 1991, there were 120 thousand and 213 permanent residents on Croatian islands while it was 2001. 124 thousand and 880 inhabitants on Croatian islands. The fact is that the number of inhabitants decreased to small islands, to smaller islands but at the same time, the fact that the number of inhabitants is increasing in large Croatian islands. That is why it is our goal that, through the amendments to the law and through all other measures resulting from the Law on Islands which are not directly introduced into the Islands Act itself, special care should therefore be directed to those small occasionally populated islands because I think that a large number of Croatian large islands today is significant somewhere at the level of standards and, if not above a certain part of the coastal part of the Republic of Croatia. I'd just say not wanting to reduce which government did more, which the government did less. In any case, I would like to say that this government, through the Resorial Office of the Islands in 2004, doubled from 110 million kuna to the position of the Authority's budget, we, in 2004, increased that position to 230 million kuna. In two years, more than 450 million kunas were invested from the position of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development through the Resorna Office of the Islands only for those positions on the Croatian islands. And I think it's a turn when we talk about it, then I'll read a few important things that contribute. In the first row, we wanted to invest in a more quality transport connection between the island and the mainland by solving capital, social and island infrastructures. Only in two years have started works and built four new ports and that is and in the process of building Premuda... The ports were built on Silba, Vela Iž, Mali Iž, Velika Srakana, Bol, Sućurje, Lopar, Zlarina, Cres etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is paved along roads and I will mention only the main state roads that are better improved or built on Croatian islands, which are on Cres, Krka, Mljet and Korčula. The communal infrastructure, I think, is the most built right here in the water supply and draining part of the Croatian islands. The water supply of Suska, Krka, Rab, Ugljana, Pasman, Dugi Otok, Mljet, Korčula through the regional water line Neretva-Pelješac-Korčula-Lastovo Brač, Hvar, Elafita and Lastova has been solved. And the construction of 16 drain systems on the Croatian islands of Suska, Lopar, Martinšče, on Cres Novalja, Kali, Preko, Ugljana, Milne, Sucurje, Vele Luka,... Jelsa, Starigrad, Sumartina, Orebic and Stone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Over 25 school facilities from the credit system already mentioned here today. It is a loan to CEB4, so the Council of Europe's credit is only in 25 facilities that I don't now list, school facilities on islands. It started to build health homes, or new health homes, or to reconstruct health homes in Korcula, Vis, Ugljan, Jelsi. Construction and adaptation of health homes in Veli Luka, Korcula, Krk, Mali Losinj, Ugljan, Mljet is scheduled. It was built a series of helipads on Cres, Rab, in Blato, Zlarin. So, a series of objects have been built, built only by those means in these past two years. Either the work is under way or the work is already done. A very important measure, a quality measure which has been adopted, is an amendment to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, part of which is part of the income tax that was otherwise the income of the state has been redirected to units of local self-government and that is the purpose of opening a jury account at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In three years, an additional 175 million kuna is on the budget of units of local self-government, so island municipalities and cities. So far, only from this position, so beyond these projects that I have listed 153 million kunas are additionally invested and even more island cities and municipalities remain at the disposal of additional... The millions of kunas they spend under the agreement they sign with the restoring ministry, and in doing so, the resolution ministry is further applying a significant set of new funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I would like to say that if we are already opening the topic of amending the Law on Islands which, which amends certain, only a certain part of the amendments to the existing law then we must be aware that there are still a number of needs of Croatian islanders but which are slowly being dealt with systematically, and what is possible systematically is that we need to thank this national programme that has written down all those needs very well how and how to revitalise Croatian islands. And one more thing. If we're talking about his indiscretion. If we are saying that this Law is unarranged, such a formulation can be accepted but we cannot expect the Island Law to enter into any law that has defined life on the islands in any way because here from this debate as we have heard it should be a large part of the articles or provisions of the Hunting Act incorporated into this law. The Law on line coastal transport should be incorporated. It should be part of the Articles of the Property Act and other real rights. It would take a large part of the Law on, the Law on Mandatory Relations. So I think it's all settled by other laws. And we don't need because something has been settled in the law of "leg specialis" now to further include in this law and to further create confusion in its implementation. So if we're thinking about another reading, then I don't see what better we can do through a second reading that's not settled here right now. I think all the important things that we wanted to solve by law are in line with the law. We'll accept part of the amendment anyway. We ourselves said that it was, the minister in his introduction and said that the part relating to the possibility of abuse of the law through donations, through investments in joint ventures and so on and through the legacy that it is possible to do so, we are even in reason and reference. The omak has been dropped, and it's an amendment that we're going to give ourselves, so that part is accepted. And we can't accept that if someone offers for sale all the real estate that he's not the owner of the land book. We are aware and I know well what the situation in the land book on Croatian islands is, but we accept as proof of ownership the extract from the cadastre, from the ownership list I think that, in such a way, we cannot seriously access the solution and in this way conduct because if only one of the 120, 150, sometimes 200 registered land-book owners offers a plot for sale which makes up an island or part of the island, I don't think it would be good. The only right path is that property-law must be resolved, that it must be a land-book owner and that the limit of maritime goods must be established. Anything else would practically lead to the possibility of a great, great abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58470	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. We will continue at 3:00 with corrections of the incorrect allegations of the respected representative Zdenko Antesic, the respected representative of Damir Kajin, and then with discussion of the respected representative Miljenko Doric. Do you remember You're giving up the beginnings of incorrect allegations? [[I'm giving up.]] You gave up. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Thank you. Resume at 3:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session and the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58472	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First, allow me 30 seconds on what's already been said. Namely, discussions and especially replicas between 10:30 and 13.30 were "very interesting". My daggers would say that the cane doesn't need prayer. It's the locust. Translated in the Assembly language, this would mean we need more concrete ideas, suggestions, initiatives. And maybe you should even suggest that there are no direct TV broadcasts, but that the second day in the same term in the same period is presented by all those most qualitative proposals, initiatives, ideas to really solve and to move life into this country. With this kind of work, it seems to me that we will help develop only two islands, which is the northern and southern island of New Zealand. Companions and colleagues, each country that has islands advocates maintaining and improving the life of its inhabitants on these islands, with the preservation of natural, cultural and historical heritage. We with our thousands and 200 islands can truly be proud because they have not only our cultural and historical heritage but also a good part of Europe's cultural and historical heritage, a huge natural wealth. For those of you who do not know only on the island of Krk there are more plant species than on any island in the Mediterranean and there are about the same number as in all of Austria. It's a very big fortune, we don't use that resource. In fact, we hardly do anything to make use of that wealth and other treasures on our islands. Here, yesterday we heard from Mr. Minister that a report on the state of the islands has been prepared in accordance with the application of the Law on Islands and therefore the evaluation of the results of the application of that law. He showed us this report, unfortunately we didn't get it before this debate. I find that completely illogical. Wouldn't it be good if we had received a report, if we had seen where we were thin, where we have to get stuck, what we have to improve, which we have to change, and then we have to go clearly into this debate and these changes and the additions of the law. So we really miss that report, and it's a shame to get it later and get it later as promised. Furthermore, we formed an island council. Yesterday I said, speaking in front of the club, it's a great shame that the island council didn't have a chance to discuss amendments and additions to the law. If they don't need to discuss this law, then I really don't see any other law that would be of greater interest. Then, we realized so far that no county self-government has been consulted, seven of our coastal counties and our units of local self-government, that this vertical is working for us and we always report back to the same story, on the same proposals, but there is really no movement. Finally, here we mention sustainable development. You know, colleagues and colleagues, it's a little humiliating here to mention sustainable development and to have this kind of amendment and addition of this law because there really are very few concrete proposals, initiatives, ideas. We can't passively access this matter. We must be much more active all together. What does it mean to be more active? I've only mentioned one option before. So, plant species, this vast wealth, the ability to extract essential oils from these plants, no one can compete with us, no Scandinavian country, no northern or western Europe. We're here clearly in great advantage. Of course, how many people have we educated in recent years that would understand this technology to use these substances in the pharmaceutical industry, in the cosmetics industry, etc., etc. I recently spoke to people in Istria who said, maybe it's not interested in some I see here but these are the key and only options where the natural advantages of the island can and should be used. That's all it is. Those who do not understand how well they can and how well they make a mistake. There is a lavender museum in France. We don't even have a Pancic museum about the biggest botanist who's ever lived in this area in Southeast Europe. Not one millimeter of square space dedicated to a man who discovered hundreds and hundreds of endemics, let alone one lavender. And we're going to go far more far-fetched here about these and those opportunities. It offends me. My colleagues and colleagues, I also said something yesterday that I would briefly repeat here. In fact, a few months ago, we abolished the islanders' right to refund their transportation costs for treatment in Rijeka, Split, Osijek, not Osijek, Zadar and other coastal cities because they live less than 100 kilometers away from these centers. Most of the Parliaments raised their hands for it. We are now removing them from the possibility of using them clearly at the advantage of ferry transport. Mr. Secretary of State just explained. He explained that this item was abolished for reasons that until now it was not the only one in Article 10. It offends me again. It offends me because the executive government is proposing laws, the majority of parliament laws, and neither of us is law enforcement. Do not apply such an item means not to respect the letter of the State Secretary's law. It's your shame and our shame and nothing else. You can't say that, and you can't say that, and you have no right to do that. I have no right to do that either. As for hunting, alochton species. Gentlemen, thirty, forty years ago, someone on a committee decided that in the days when the rain should give tourists on the islands another opportunity for extra-pansion consumption, they dragged boars and deer to the island of Cres and to the island of Losinj. They clearly didn't think about biological species disorder, and neither do we today. They didn't consult with the experts. That's not what we're doing today either. They don't think about the long-term damage, we don't do it today either. Same mistakes are repeated after 30, 40 years. I don't think we have much to discuss here. The error is huge and this part of the text is absolutely unacceptable. Text of the bill. It's an island incentive and production. Yesterday I said when it's done, here's only on that same banal example of essential oils on the islands don't have distillery. They must drag that product to Zagreb. They have to cooperate with someone. With some kind of agripharmaceutical industry. Is that a Zagreb product? Shouldn't that product also bear the label of the original island product? I think so. By this letter of law, is the question whether or not? Probably not anymore. We have to be elastic here. We have to help these people. So find an exit to bypass this kind of formulation where the company on the island has to be registered, doesn't hold water. About the first time I said, I agree with Mr. Bošnjakovic and his proposal is very good but I say try at least then and the instrument of silence by the administration to treat the law as a lack of interest that the sale process can be carried out over a certain period of time. So here's another call from a colleague and colleagues. Let's be more active. I'll give you a French case when a young man who's jobless knocks on the door of the Employment Service, a local community or a local bank. He gets the same answer everywhere because there's coordination in society. The French State knows exactly what it imports and it is primarily to be produced. It knows what can be done on the European market and it encourages it again. The young man knows exactly, he has, he gets a list of 80 products. If you produce this, you will get the incentive of local self-government and support, you will get the incentives or help of the bank, you will get the incentives and help of the state. So everyone knows everything, everything is coordinated. We don't give any ideas to these young people on islands where we're going to help them? Why are we interested? How are we going to bridge that unemployment on the islands? We need to be active and not passively expect them to find ideas, they find solutions, and we will eventually pick up some political points on the side when something happens to work out. There's no coincidence. There must be an organized and coordinated system of these, and that's the only way we're really going to help the islands. I repeat, if we continue this way, we will only help the northern and southern islands of New Zealand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58473	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58474	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and fellow MPs. For me, the fundamental question is, when I look at this bill, can a state programme be adopted for the protection and use of the island without changing the property of the island? The proposal would allow us to read that state ownership is a super property. That the only state is capable of taking care of property. And according to the Constitution, every property has the same status, same content. Then why is this law passed? It is therefore possible to adopt a state programme to protect the use of the island without changing the property of the island. That the state doesn't show that it's the only one who controls well when it owns the islands. The Constitution has already established that islands and coasts, islands and coasts have special protection of the Republic of Croatia, but there is no evidence of what this protection is under neither this law nor the Constitution. If, therefore, only the change in ownership is the titlemaker instead of the private person, then the natural person of the state becomes the owner has no change whatsoever. There's no change. It'll just be spent on money. And if I were on the island my script would be sold immediately to the state. Now sell the state, burden the state, take the money because nothing's going to happen like that. Why do I think so? There is no means in the budget for this law to be implemented. Which is an item for the purchase of island property or real estate on the island by the law of the first purchase of the Republic of Croatia. Even if it was in the most ideal procedure in 90 days, it couldn't be realized. Because that's what the law says. And if we look at it in practical terms, so would the Law on Land Books and the Law on Property say that property is obtained by enrolment in land books. Of course, Croatia has not declared its trust in land books. She has not declared her trust in land books, so traffic is happening without enrolling that traffic in land books. The truth of the law provides that ex-lege, ex-lege, is to make changes in land books of ownership or to enroll on cargo, burdens with owners that, that there is the right of first purchase and that state, county and city and municipality. And that lasts 90 days. It's a really hard burden of ownership from, island owners or real estate in the island. Wouldn't it be much more appropriate for the first spirit to be bought at the same time that when someone has a request to buy a real estate, they pass that claim to the state in one place and she says I have money or I don't have money, I buy or I don't buy. And look at the bigger absurd. According to the proposal of the law of property on the island can be purchased by the state, county, city and municipality in the area of real estate, the city in which the property is located and the municipality in the area of real estate. And can any real estate by law buy the Varazdin County on the island first? Why are we discrediting our counties? By what right? That only the county where the property is located can buy that property. It just turns out the way it's written. Oh, no, no, that's how it works out. It can't go any other way. ... Is whether it's logical and just, that's another thing, fellow Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. How is it possible that ex-lege changes are made to, states in land books without the owner knowing it. No matter what the law. Could it be during this period of 90 days that he has a contract that he sold the property without giving a tabular ID. The most common example. It's not all paid and we don't let him sign up for land books and hang out. How does the transitional and final provisions apply to such contracts? There's no such thing as a solution. There's no such thing as a solution. And we are trying to say that we will protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia. There is no interest in the Republic of Croatia without respecting the interests of ownership and owners, because it is the basis of this arrangement and the people who own it. Let's move on. An objection to enrolment in land books may be made within a specified time limit. I think it's on my mind I'll say two years. For two years, all this has not been settled with the proposal of this law, and what will happen if no funds are provided in the budget for the purchase of real estate in favour of the Republic of Croatia or the counties or cities of Croatian and municipalities who want to buy something like that. It will become an offer of jus, so naked law, and citizens and islanders will find it harder to sell their properties. This is neither the interest of the Republic of Croatia nor these islanders. The logic is that the state has this state-run programme of protection and arrangement of the island and it is in full sense protecting anyone to become the owner. Anyone who owns it. It's like a spatial plan, like an urban plan. It is legitimate both in Croatia and in all countries of Europe, and it does not affect ownership rights. I think it would be logical that real estate can be sold, because when there are more people on the island then they are interested in better life, investment, investment, editing, better communication with the island, between the islands, etc. If this scenario comes true, I hope it won't because there's no money in the budget, then the state will own it. Because the islanders will certainly sell the land because they have to, but the state is neither rich nor prepared any state programme for the revitalisation or economical, or as the island rests say, so this bill will only come in handy as an alibi for not investing in islands whether they're big or small. Therefore, I do not think that this law can be supported in first reading simply because it has not seen all the consequences of such a proposal even in a formal legal sense. I hope the promoter will see this because the speed he proposes to limit the right of ownership simply does not suffer the system of land books and enrolment in land books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58475	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58476	Your Honor, Mr. Representatives, Secretary of State. The fundamental question is whether this law will, at all, revive, whether it is enforceable, whether this law in some way the state can consume. Let's go in a row. In order to implement this law in the state budget, considerable resources should be provided. How much? One mentions 5 billion kunas, another mentions 500 million kunas. Could the state afford such a luxury to buy an island under quotes. I don't think she can do it today. He won't be able to do it tomorrow, and I'm not afraid the day after tomorrow. The state can't even worry about health standards, let alone buy Croatian islands now. You're saying if it doesn't mean the state's money, then those islands will be bought by local self-government. It's just a hoax. Because we all know the budgetary possibilities of Croatian counties, i.e. Croatian municipalities. How can they buy I don't know some island when they have a budget I'm talking about now about these island municipalities of 4, 5 or 6 million kuna. Well, it's theirs to think about sewers, think about not knowing about buying some real estate for building a sports hall, building a playground, not now buying islands. As far as the state is concerned, the state just doesn't have that money either. It is said at the first moment of some 450 islands will be offered 10%, 40th, 50th. That'll cost us maybe 500 million kuna. However, where to find now in the state budget 500 million kuna. In the light of this Island Act, it is also said that three islands of Shcardi, Smokvica near Primosten, and a small Krnjaš islet near Trogir were sold. However, I know that Russian oligarchs, multibillionaires, are Putin's personal friends run these telecommunications corporations, etc. for two million dollars or 2 million euros in Istria near Medulin bought 2 islands of Frasker and Fraskeric. So, the islands are for sale. Clearly, it's not as we're all likely to agree on a private island, it's about private property on that island, but it's actually a synonym one word, whether it's a private island or a private property. There's a difference in that maritime good. It's those six meters from the tide, so the state can clearly keep it so much less to buy the one that buys it better. To return now to those islands of Frasker and Fraskeric near Medulin. Who sold them for $2 million or 2 million? They were sold by citizens. These islands were originally intended for sports tourism construction. Meanwhile, spatial plans are changing. These Russians, after a year, de facto realize they bought a "cat in a bag". So what now? So what now? The Russians are influential, calling everyone, vice-president of the state, government, minister, mayor, coming to the MPs, etc. And what do you do? There is no other way but to tell them that spatial plans should be respected, that is, to respect the will of the citizens. However, it is also a catastrophic message higher than the country where it is said that de facto no serious business can be done on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. The only effective mechanism that the state has, and that's where we'll all agree, are spatial plans. That's actually the point. So, it doesn't matter how much the matter is in spatial plans. It's the only way we gentlemen can protect space. We don't have money in local self-government or in the state to buy these islands. We have money for spatial plans. Clearly, no one can play with potential investors after that first buy or all those deadlines have passed, because we can't put someone in a position to buy a cat I said in a bag. One who thinks the same way that Croatia will develop only on the basis of its own accumulation is also naive, because if that were the case, both the Czech Republic and Slovakia and Poland would still be in communism. Can any of us gentlemen tell us how long it's been since '91? years to today built new hotels on the Adriatic? Not renewed, new hotels. I claim that on the most beautiful coast in the world, Croatia has about 6 thousand kilometers of that coast since '91. To this day, not three or five new hotels have been built. On the other hand, who's selling? They're selling our people. Small people. Why? That's their problem. As this Frasker, or Fraskeric, was sold from the Bolkovic family, no, some similar families of some of their own interest have sold these Skarad, Krnjaš or Smokvica. So they're selling little people. In 2004, from the sale of real estate in Istria, the profit is earned, watch out for 948 million kuna. It's amazing, so there were about 7 billion kunas in traffic. County, cities, de facto municipalities didn't sell a single square meter because the county doesn't even have one square meter. So they're selling little people? Why? To solve our own existence. On the other hand, who's in a position to buy? Of course, those who have the money. And who has the money with us? They have meanings of these meshetars, the builders, have our tycoons, possibly some foreigners, although they are now significantly less interested in buying Croatian real estate when they realize that they are more expensive here than I think, under the quotes "in Manhattan", because it is not so that they would not sell real estate in Croatia by as much as 30% compared to 2004. And through reciprocity, through tourist companies anyone who is interested on the side can reach the island as well. Finally, when we talk about what the state can do with its accumulation. Well, she can't even arrange for Brijuni who were the most attractive tourist product in Austria-Hungarian or I don't know the Kingdom of Italy, and where they'll now, and Yugoslavia during Tito, and where they'll be shopping now, I don't know these islands. As far as other provisions are concerned, I find it particularly interesting Article 6 where it is said that the islanders do not pay for the bridge. That's probably what I mean by Krk. It's absolutely fine, but is it okay to say Mostar or in... We pay in Istria, 14 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or we could pay the tunnel to get through the tunnel 5 grand 200 meters for 28 kuna. It's not right. What about Jadrolinia? What about these savages? Okay, that's not what I'm gonna say, that's what everybody said. We organize one hack and solve this problem clearly, because otherwise another one will open up to us that the islanders will start poisoning those corpses and then eventually they suffer soups through and we have these ecocids, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You don't have Mr. Secretary of State LNG How are we going to implement such a project with this law? On the other hand, the islanders must understand that they cannot live only on wine, olives, agriculture, fishing, but simply have an industry, because otherwise the whole system will collapse. This Regulation shall enter I absolutely welcome you, this stamp is a Croatian island product. It is certain, but this should be made up marketingly, promoted, made recognizable throughout the Republic of Croatia, even beyond our borders. But I'll do it again. If we want to develop our islands we will also need a radical decentralisation project because in these circumstances we only beg and expect the state to solve some infrastructure problem on one of the islands, at least it is illusory. I agree with the Crown that says, and the Hvar Theatre co-financed and helped build Venice. However, I also claim that the fastest of our islands has been developing since '74. by the 1990s, so according to the Constitution when the state of Croatia was most decentralised. So, if we want something radical to change, we're going to have to decentralize this country, and that's for sure what the greatest benefits are for the islanders themselves to live on the islands. So this should in some ways be a way for the government to start treating the island's issues, but also, in general, local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. It means he's already going into decentralisation processes, going back to some of the conditions of the '74 Constitution. years, when it's decentralisation after.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58477	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58478	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it is almost incredible that such allegations are even heard in the Croatian Parliament, that the islands lived better than in '74. '90s. A year. But here, for the sake of the public, it's quite clear that it's an incorrect allegation. But the public knows very well. Therefore, it is certain that today a much better life on these islands, that it can be better done, that economic development can be developed, that the interests of both local and local communities can be better protected and that they decide what will be in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58479	Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58480	Mr. President, I don't know if I heard correctly if I heard the Hvar Theatre built Venice. ... It doesn't matter, so the Hvar Theatre first built the City of Zagreb, then restored it by Napoleon, and after that, it was at the expense of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[That's what the Crown said. The Crown told us all.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58481	That's right. Yeah, you should follow the literature, not where someone says they built it. What did Venice build in the Milks, right? Now I've written someone down, but it's hard to decrypt. I think it's Krunoslav Markovanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58482	Yes, thank you. I've got another false quote to make right and the fact that the poor Russian tycoons bought a cat in a bag. They didn't, definitely, because they knew exactly that with uninhabited islands there was no construction. But the other thing is, is that's how they launder money, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58483	Maybe it's not the cat in the bag, maybe it's the cat in the hand. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58484	So first, let's figure out who was building the Hvar theater. The Hvar Theatre is... In 1620, because an ambitious prince comes to Hvar after a hundred years of conflict, after a coup on Hvar one strong gesture shows that the island of Hvar and the Hvar community can deal with something other than each other's calculation and political bickering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this context, the Hvar community builds a Hvar theatre out of its own resources. It was a hundred years after Matija Ivanic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, so much for the Hvar theater. Now let's switch to that same part of history and remind ourselves of what the statutes of our island communities looked like. This is what I was saying last night, but it needs to be repeated. In the Statute of the Croatian Communal, in the Statute of Bračka, Korčulan and all other communes on the Adriatic, all island communes, say the Rabic communes, there are no hunters anywhere because no hunting sites were organized anywhere. There were therefore, there were fishermen' overseers, port supervisors who collected port fees, there were fielders, there were gassers who looked out for shepherds in the fields but there were no hunters because the simple notion of a fenced hunting ground on the island was then unheard. There were common good, common pastures where everyone could hunt evenly, and today these once common municipal goods want to turn into fenced hunting grounds where a couple of characters like... on Hvar hunting in feudal style. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, the man had his own feed and... Who knows how many years and no one can get in there alive because it's his watch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, if he wants to hunt, then let him hunt what he's got, let him hunt the boars, but let him give them a chance, let them dig them, say. So let's give the boars a chance if we really want to have a hunt. So, joke aside. The whole concept of bringing game to the island for hunting is actually a violation of the sensitive island eco system. I agree that once upon a time in Roman times, so at least they say to a Roman historian, on the island of Hvar lived the deer "Axis" and muflones and bears, and boars, perhaps even by any lynx but that was all. No one today would go seriously to introduce only one of these animals because it would actually violate the eco system, unless someone has a brilliant plan so that it completely reconstructs the ecological system of the island during the Roman Empire. But it's really unreal. On the other hand, the creation of a hunting ground on the island means actually separating part of the island which is usually a small isolated environment. So its isolation in an even smaller environment because it simply separated part of the island from the rest, no one enters the part of the island because it is someone’s private hunting ground or society. And if those are open hunting grounds, then the thing is even worse, then all those animals from that part are circulating on the rest of the island. And so it really happened that in the '70s some geniuses brought boars to Hvar. It was later claimed that they swam, but that was the time when the hunt was and as far as the tourist offer was concerned. ... So they thought it would become part of the tourist offer, and now these boars are simply an inaccessible attack on Hvar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that this bad example is not to be repeated and we must also not repeat similar experiments that have already been done on the islands by bringing in a mongoose, so an Indian animal that has deliberately settled on our islands to reduce the amount of leaps. It ended with the mongooses chasing the leaps, turning to the whites, then blowing, birds, and all that. And now maybe some genius will populate the cobras so these mongooses have something to eat because they're already used to it in India. So, I want to tell you. When such laws are written, there must indeed be a very serious expert study of how the island eco-system should look and under one basic ego, which is that the island system must not be touched or experimented with. And that's one of the reasons our club suggests, you've got a proposal to conclude that this law goes to another reading. The second issue is the right to buy first and all European norms. When we proposed the right to buy the islands two years ago in Parliament, we did so for one fundamental reason. There is already the right of the first purchase defined in the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods. In Article 52, the Croatian Constitution defines islands as being of special interest to the Republic of Croatia which enjoy special protection of the Republic of Croatia. The hunting ground would then be the same mechanism as it is for cultural good to apply to Croatian islands. And that's why we suggested a variant of the first buy right. So if someone goes to buy a quarter of some small island... that's where he's already responding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, no one thinks they're gonna buy that class for a quarter of Brac Island or thank you, but anyway, there may be that possibility and we opened it with this. Unfortunately, our proposal then did not come across a good reception in the Croatian government or in the ruling majority, it was rejected for fear that it would violate the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and negotiations with the Union. Of course, everyone protects their property in the Union as best they know and everything under the protection of public goods. Thus, no one prevents us from having this caution that is otherwise the basis of both Articles 52 and 62. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement to apply for reasons of caution a certain restriction on a particular market can therefore also be applied here. The law of the first purchase does not mean a ban on sales but means that the state acquires insight into what is actually happening. Maybe the state at last and local self-government won't buy it, but at least they'll know who's selling it, why they're selling it, and for what money they're selling it for. Responsibilities, I say, are currently starting prices for real estate, so for fields in Hvar that are not in the construction zone start at 7 euros per metre square metre. ... climb to 20 and some euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I can't believe that for such a plot you might not find money in the state budget if someone is already going to buy it, but the point isn't that the state buys it. The point is that the state is watching what's going on. And it's actually done with a mechanism like this. Unfortunately, we lost for two years, and it would have been better if this had been done together in 2004 when HSP suggested it. On the other hand, there is, of course, a need and exemptions from the sale of individual islands, such as the island of Daxa, which is a mass grave or islands that define the border line, or islands that are on the waterways and where the lighthouses are and not to mention those that are nature parks or islands that are part of national parks. The Croatian Constitution otherwise declares that if there is a restriction on the right of ownership then these owners must be compensated in some way. And I believe that in the sublegal acts and that problem will be properly solved. I repeat, all this together we proposed two years ago and the government is now because the islands are part of Croatia's identity. And that's why we have to protect them in this way, or at least keep track of what's going on in them. Of course, there's also a question of shipping. I'm not glad this law simply erases it. It is not good to move coldly in parts relating to preferential transport for islanders, but if we had obtained this law report on the implementation of laws we may have received, hopefully on the CD, not in some fat book then we could also discuss other aspects of shipping. One of the major problems with shipping for the islands was the famous Law on the substituting of shipping lines, which the Assembly has brought to that system... when it actually went to the elimination of a whole series of lines and defined only one, maximum two lines for an island with semi-roads that would then be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] on the island. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A large number of our seats have remained badly or in no way connected to the mainland but depend on very insecure, very poorly organized bus lines on the island that extend the trip for another hour or a half. So I think it actually made bear services to islanders and that it must be corrected through the introduction of a number of additional lines as provided for in the Law on Lineship Transport. However, it would be much better to adopt in the Assembly the first Law on Lineship Transport, that we have this Law on Islands in two readings, and then, in the second reading of the month, two, so in May, let's say, adopt the Final Bill which will respect all these remarks heard in the Croatian Parliament and which will respect all the remarks of island cattlemen and farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58485	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58486	Of course I'm in favor of first-class law too. However, through the Office of Finance, the state is very well aware of who is selling, where is it sold, and how much is it sold? It's simply a fact that no one can dispute. Secondly, as far as the Hvar theatre is concerned, about 10 and 30 Mr. Kruno Peronja, the former Split mayor literally said that even the Hvar theatre would not have been there if it had not been financed in some way by Venice. Is that what it is or isn't it? I don't know. That's not what I'm getting into, though. Clearly, for the development of the island, I was just paraphrasing it, so that someone wouldn't be imputing me now that anything I mean is wrong. I said that in the context of the development of the island, state subsidies should also help. And our country for the islands, so we see that it's about a billion kuna a year. So she also singled out I don't know how much resources for water supply systems, so the drains, so the schools, I don't know the ambulances. On Little Lošinj, the Dialysis Rab and so on. In 2003, as we heard from the secretary of state for the island administration alone, it was about 130 or 150 million kuna, and now it stands out 232 million kuna. The truth is that in 2006, the state budget on average is about 15 or 18 billion more than it was in 2003. But it's clear that the state is very much setting aside funds to worry about. Is that enough? Probably not, however, the fact is that significant funds are being allocated for these purposes, but in my court the key should still be to decentralisation and empowerment of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58487	Replicate reply, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58488	My colleague Cain, I think you know exactly what the point of the first buy is. I'd apply the exact same procedure as there is for cultural goods here. And there's a right to buy first, so once again, the state knows that whoever has that art wants to sell it. Why is he selling it? Well, it's because of the difficult economic circumstances in which it might eventually be found. And now there's a real fever on the islands selling real estate. But with this country at least in some way trying to introduce order and trying to track what's going on in that area? As far as Mr. Peronja is concerned, I don't believe that he said it because a man translated the Hvar Statute, but if he is, I will reprove him sharply as soon as I see him.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58489	That pious question is certainly with noble, paved by the noble intentions of Agent Cain. But that, I think, is where an expert team led by Antun Vujic could give a special, yes, further explanation. Yeah. But for now, not at this stage. Now we're going to a five-minute debate. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. ... He won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic, the HSP Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58490	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, In this brief presentation on behalf of the HSP Club, I would like to remind you of two of our conclusions that our club has made in the procedure. In the first row, we feel that this law should be directed to a second reading. With such a heated debate, it is clear that it is very difficult to expect the law to be adopted by emergency procedure. It is obvious that this bill, along with several necessary amendments relating to the names of individual ministries mentioned in the law, is also mentioned in the different schedules of the country's programme. For example, in the current law there was a programme for the development of island communications on the proposal of Croatian telecommunications. Of course, it's completely pointless now that we have liberalized telecommunications, so there's a need to make some adjustments. But all these other topics that have all these days been debated a lot and the introduction of savages to islands and ship transport and the right to buy or regulate the sale of entire islands are topics that are really complex and there is no need for ladies and gentlemen to rush into it. Nothing costs us all to discuss this one more time in the final draft of the law, so that all these proposals can be incorporated and let's say we discuss it at the end of April or early May. The other thing I want to mention here is that we haven't received a report, and I guess when there's another reading, it's a good thing that the law itself has had some procedures regarding these programs that are being encouraged in Article 27 of the Law. In this regard, our Club proposes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia be in charge of a national programme for pre-school education, primary and secondary education on the islands. This is therefore one of the programmes foreseen in Article 27 to settle the issue of high school children from the island attending high school in towns on land. So we have a very sad situation that children from the island and Hvar, Brač, Visa, Korčula go to high school in Split and those who are not so fortunate to be placed in dormitories actually live in various private arrangements. But they can't eat their hot meal for one day in neither the dormitory nor the college cafeteria, but they usually smuggle or eat some fast food on the way there. So it would be good for the state to solve this problem. It's not a lot of kids. I think it's all together on the entire Adriatic, according to our estimates, somewhere around 400 high school students, and that shouldn't cost the state more than 4 million kuna a year. So many colleagues here mentioned concrete initiatives. Here is one of the concrete initiatives that we expect to get support from other clubs, representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I repeat everything else are really questionable provisions that would have been better done before, and polls amongst the islanders. As far as this law is concerned, it is worth the same thing as the HSP Club repeated when it comes to areas of special concern. Let's do the first poll among these people, see how happy they are with law enforcement, and then we'll go into the law changes. First of all. Second, let's introduce the island council and the county level. Not just one, at the level of the entire state. And the third legally binding units of local self-government at the level of one island to cooperate with each other, not to act as if each of them were in a complete vacuum, that it had nothing to do with the others. Certain problems in the islands simply do not work out within a municipality. The problem of shipping, health and emergency care, the problem of education and the problem of waste management or the problem of water supply is often not solved within a municipality on the island, so there must be a common effort. But the law is unfortunately written in such a way that it does not oblige them to cooperate. I know that we cannot by law force local self-government to unite or in some way force them to create joint firms in this, but at least through some kind of coordination, through some kind of island council will have to filter out such problems and solutions that are offered. So in that sense, I call on all clubs to support our proposal that this law go to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58491	Thank you. The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Kramaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58492	Dear Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HSLS club, fortunately, or unfortunately, whatever you're looking at, is made up of these frogs, so maybe it's not really, we don't have any assumptions for one really speech that could be put in the right position and have the same perception as the islanders do. But the same no matter how possible, as well... says every man is an island, so then we can also let ourselves try this from a distance to talk about this bill of amendments and additions to the Island Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, when you look at the objectives of amending this law, they are theoretically and in principle standing, it is better to regulate the provisions that will contribute to a more effective implementation of the law, then resolving the issue of ways, conditions of sale of land, real estate on small occasional, inhabited and uninhabited islands, protecting the island from non-planned management, and to stimulate the traditional economy on them and even to create assumptions for a better, more normal life on all these islands. I'm saying, that's basically what it is, but how it actually looks like in practice. First of all, I would, I'm afraid that, like yesterday, the law that we passed the Sport Act as well as this one today, it actually follows from the same methodologically wrong premise, which is that in fact, all the islands are, that we can put a sign of equality between them. Croatia is a land of 1200 and we have some islands. But of course, I'm afraid we can't have the same and identical relationship with all these islands. One is the Apple, one is the Palagruža, and something else is some other islands, and I think it's actually in law that some things can really be said clearly. The state must have this principled interest and interest in the fact that we're an island country, but I'm also afraid that this very simple approach that actually simulates the problem doesn't happen again, and then we have... According to the one where we actually require a more complex relationship which I say cannot be placed under the same denominator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm saying, that's being repeated by the law in the law, and that's because it's simpler and it requires one of us to have a more analytical approach that in some way would make that so much-needed differentiation that would help us, as well, representatives who aren't with those spaces that we have a clearer view. On the other hand, I'm also afraid to express my skepticism on behalf of my club as well as some other clubs whether it's really a speed in this case of virtue and whether this really has to be handled by an emergency procedure. The more we opened up, the more we had a recent debate about ships and these lines. This debate is not over and it would be good if there were one coordination between certain ministries, and fortunately here within the same ministry, and I think then some solution that would be more appropriate and appropriate within these solutions. On the other hand, it seems to me that we're missing out on our own to do a whole series, run the mechanisms that are in our disposition. Our Stabilisation Agreement did not prohibit us from making these, but now some exceptions, but it is interesting that in the last year at least as far as we know in the club local government has not declared any significant landscape. So we are not using these mechanisms that enable us to do just that of the European Union. During that period, local authorities did not even request the announcement of a regional park, a forest park, a monument of nature or a monument of park architecture. Now I wonder why we actually have something that we don't actually use and wait right here in 2009 and then ask ourselves here again so slightly masochistic why some of the things we could have done we missed. And just like those institutes that are used by a whole series of these countries, European countries to protect their cities and their old cores from selling. Also, with this property should I agree with those who have said that no state property and the Constitution says so cannot have any advantage over any other form of ownership and I'm afraid that the state is not the best master and we should certainly have one in my opinion the club would be better off giving those people who live there credits that they could actually improve themselves, precisely those forms of traditional life and raise the standard over as far as possible, over a long period of time during each year. I think these are better solutions than I say when we're trying and when we're actually afraid of something that's waiting for us. And it turns out, in fact, that we haven't introduced a single protection mechanism ourselves, and then there's that we don't use the opportunity to be free people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58493	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58494	I thank you, Mr. President. It is not true that a debate on line traffic has not been concluded. It's over, but we didn't vote. That's the first false quote. And another incorrect assumption is that we do not use the mechanisms of declaring the park forest and protected landscapes. This is also not true because local units are using very well and currently there are a large number of requests in the process. And thirdly, we didn't realize when you already called for every man to be an island, we didn't realize whether you were a inhabited or uninhabited island. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58495	But colleague Kramarić, the exact paraphrase is different. Every man, no one is an island. ... When we're being reduced like that and then there's no argument, and the contrast is every island, no one's an island. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] HDZ club respected representative Mirjana Brnadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58496	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Assistant Minister, the Honorable Minister. Here I come from an island that is highly inhabited, but rich in illegally built buildings, more than 8,000 illegally built objects, the island of Vir. So we can put ourselves in the category to very inhabited islands. After all the discussions on amendments and additions to the HDZ Club's Law on Islands, it considers that the essential solutions are well-set and that the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia are protected. In addition to certain improvements in certain provisions of the amendments, we keep in mind that the amendments and additions of the Island Act will contribute to the effective management of island wealth, contribute to the conservation and improvement of existing biological and landscape diversity, establish the limits of maritime goods, and prevent inappropriate sale of real estate on small, occasional inhabited or uninhabited islands. Which is why the HDZ Club will vote in favour of amending and supplementing the island law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58497	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary for the Sea Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58498	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here, at the end of the debate, and I would just like to say a few words that I think will mark the position of our ministry, or government according to certain amendments and conclusions that were in the debate itself. I believe that there are no important specific reasons to point out the need for the law to go into second reading, because the fundamental setting that stems from the amendments and the addition of the law itself is the introduction of the law first. Therefore, I think that, in the debate, the principle of first-price rights and essential objections to such a particular formulation of the first-price proposal was supported. From the debate, and we, as proposings, agreed, because part of the reasoning is written in the normative part, it is not written, or it is omitted, the part relating to possible abuse, the avoidance of the first purchase obligation through a gift contract, through a maintenance contract or through a joint investment in companies which, where it could then be practically avoided the provision that it is necessary to offer the right of the first state and county, i.e. the city or municipality. We will therefore, that part I say is also indicated in the very explanation and it will be processed in the law just as it was written in the proposal itself. The second, and there isn't, I don't think there have been any more serious objections. But when we talk about the right to buy, then I have to say that the other laws that define the right of the first one absolutely have no elaborate way of implementing the first one. We, through this bill of law, made it very detailed. Where we stated that it was necessary to establish the limit of maritime goods, where we stated that it was necessary to deliver a copy of the land book, a copy of the ownership list, a copy of the Katastrian plan. Thus, they defined how the first purchase would be recorded in the land book. Which is, which state body is required to do this. Therefore, we have prescribed the right to buy first, the procedure of how the first one is carried out and very detailed. And I'm saying, all the other laws that introduce the right to buy it solve one article, without absolute elaborate as well as in any way. Therefore, I think that this very very detailed way of introducing and recording in the land book of the first purchase law has been defined and the market price has been defined, as has been settled by the Law on Execution. The application of the second one relating to liner transport should have been subject to the provisions of the Law on Islands which define line transport. Well, I've said it before, and now I'm gonna do it again. The existing formulation of the Law on Islands that was introduced into the law when the law was passed in 1999 was never respected for the reason that this country has no financial possibility to implement, to this end, a provision in the Island Act. Why close your eyes, why not a single provision that we are aware that we cannot implement, that for example line Jablanac –... which connects the island of Rab by that formulation would cost 2 and a half or 3 kuna when we are unable to implement it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this state cannot ensure that such a provision of the law is implemented in the budget of a billion kunas for the island's, subsidisation of linear transport. Therefore, the awareness that we cannot do so, but by means of an accurate programme, we can significantly reduce the prices we have made by introducing a vignette, we clarify clearer, fairer and only then is that such a provision is included in the law. Close your eyes, return and keep a provision that we know in advance that we can't carry out it is unserious and I think that this amendment of the law, we had to do it. Any other solution can't be implemented, it's unnecessary and I don't think it's fair to the islanders. The third thing, too, was about hunting. It was enough today to discuss whether such a formula is good or not. Well, we were just about to go to the island's protection, to define which of the indigenous and allohtone savages on the island were going with this proposal, that is, with this bill, that is, with this formulation of Article 8. Without it, we could as a Government, as a promoter, not to put this article at all, but then where and where less protection of Croatian islands would be from small and large game. The question can be asked whether a deer shovel, a deer axis, is a muflon of large game and a deer common, is it a game that can live on an island at all? We asked the profession, the profession said that what is already inhabiting on the islands but not in a way that something that is indigenous and declared indigenous on the island of Badji next to Korčula that is indigenous and on another island. Each island is defined by its hunting economic base and cannot be brought to the island by wild game that is not on that island of autochton and it is quite clear and therefore I think that this way of keeping Article 8. we make a significant contribution to the protection of agricultural areas on Croatian islands. Mr Miljenko Doric, I must look back on this, said that this bill neither exists nor does this one define certain activities on islands that can be stimulated, so he mentioned the exploitation of essential oils etc. It is precisely in Article 9 that the activities on Croatian islands can be defined, which are indigenous, which are encouraged and for which the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is obliged to lend loans on preferential interest. In addition to Article 10, the island product to be declared is also defined in order to ensure that certain activities that are listed on the islands can be encouraged. Therefore, it is not true that all activities are not taken into account, and I have said how much credit the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has given to encourage the very activities that are listed in Article 9. The second thing that is very important and stemming from this law is a regulation on encouraging employment on Croatian islands. The Croatian islands currently employ about 45 thousand, 300 employees, 300 islets. Six and a half thousand unemployed. When calculating the unemployment rate on the Croatian islands, it is, in particular, significant data with the state of 31.12.2004 below the unemployment rate in Croatia, and I believe that these measures that are constantly encouraged to encourage the island's economy have also contributed to reducing unemployment. In Croatia, the unemployment rate is about 12%. So here, in this sense, we hold that the law, with the adoption of certain amendments, is to be adopted by us, and in the text proposed by us, can go to the vote because I am speaking in the debate itself, there are no important remarks that would suggest that the law should be brought to another reading. The fundamental thing that was is to go with the right of the first bath. He is justified and he seems to have been accepted, and when we went into the introduction of the first purchase right then we decided to amend and correct certain irregularities in the existing law and it is in a certain way and done and in that sense we propose that the Parliament adopts the law exactly as it is proposed in addition to those amendments that we will clearly consider by tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58499	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are now going to discuss the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. First of all, we have a previous question. The club of HSP representatives proposed the following conclusion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands with the Final Proposal of the Law was held in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, please make an indication of the proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58501	I do not accept this conclusion precisely because we care about protecting the Croatian state interests of counterparts Tadic as well as in the previous law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58502	Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. To vote. The result? 12 for, 10 abstentions, 62 against. The conclusion wasn't adopted. Now we're going to vote on the amendments. As in previous times, we have two amendments to the government that came after the deadline, so I am voting on a proposal to take into account these two amendments that came after the debate ended, the final debate. Please, let's get on with it. Who's in? To vote. The result? 74 for, 7 abstentions, 4 against. These amendments will be discussed and voted. Minister, here you go, Amendment One.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58503	Thank you, Mr. President. In amendment one, you have it on benches, but I will read it anyway article 8 is changed and it says, "The islands prohibit the introduction and breeding of savages who do not live on the island of nature." And then there's a list of people who can stay on the island. Then, from large species of game in open island hunting grounds, the deer can be grown plains, in fenced hunting grounds and game growing grounds can be grown a deer shovel and deer axis. Therefore, further restrictions have been introduced in the management of island hunting sites by the new manipulation in Article 8 of this Act and, after learning of the harmful action of mongooses as a type of fine game and muflon as a species of large game, they are also exempted from the provisions of Article 8. So that's the meaning of this amendment, that both mufflon and mungosa are exempted from this Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58504	I'm opening a debate. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58505	Your Honor, Mr. President, during the debate, the club of HSP representatives did not support the introduction of mongoose and the introduction of muflon. And it's a good thing the Ministry kicked out of this law. However, there remains a variant of the fenced hunting grounds. I remind again that in the six centuries-old history of our island communes, no fenced hunting grounds have ever been foreseen that the isolated area of the island is further isolated and reduced to a ban on several new age feudals. We cannot accept this amendment for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58506	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 1. Government. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 5 against Amendment No. 1. Government. Amendment number 2. Government. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58507	Article 21, which is added to Article 35(3), is amended as follows: "The right to purchase on the property referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article also refers to their alienation by virtue of gift contracts, the introduction of real estate as a part of a company, in executive and bankruptcy proceedings, as well as in the procedures of acquisition of fiduciary property. Exceptionally, the right of first purchase does not apply to the alienation of real estate based on gift contracts provided that the donor and the donor are placed in the first inheritance order." And that's the amendment. This type of manipulation of the provision of Article 35(3) has been omitted in the normative part of the law due to a copy error while the same explanations are provided in the attached explanation of Article 35 of the proposal to amend and supplement the Island Act with the final proposal of the law. The amendment opens up the possibility of making real estate available in the procurement procedures, the introduction of real estate as a stake in a company, in executive and bankruptcy proceedings, as well as in the process of obtaining fiducial property, so what is important. Thus, the islander can on these occasionally inhabited islands, etc. This property can therefore be used for fiduciary purposes, mortgages, etc., by acting in accordance with the provisions of Article... This law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58508	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 2. Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 77 votes for, 3 abstentions to the proposed amendment of the government. Let's get on the table now. Minister! 1. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58509	We do not accept this amendment because the national development programme of the island from 1997 is based on which the Island Act was adopted clearly stipulated that the Island Act applies exclusively to all Croatian islands in the Adriatic Sea. I accept that we should take care of this, but we'll take care of it with one other law. In this law today, unfortunately, we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58510	Representative Markov, come in. Retracted. Thank you. 2. The Legislative Committee. What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58511	I'll talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58512	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58513	Mr. Minister, I don't think there's enough reason to appeal to a national strategy because the national strategy of island development just points to the fact that even 1997 did not care about the islands in rivers and lakes. ... not nearly as numerous as the numerous islands in the sea in which we support all that goes towards these islands. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] We think there's room for you to bring these islands into the lakes of the river and the islands to enter this law in order for the basis of the law to be able to... the means necessary because we know that this also includes the possibility of developing fishing tourism and carrying out agricultural economic activities. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Therefore, we ask to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58514	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 13 and 1, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58515	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58516	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3rd representative of Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58517	This amendment cannot be accepted because the provisions of the Law on Islands relating to maritime transport are almost entirely transposed into the final proposal of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58518	Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58519	Mr. Minister, that's not true. Just the next amendment I submitted will explain that you have not fully passed on what you should have passed from one law to another. So I'm asking for a vote and I'll explain the details later.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58520	Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 16 for. Three abstentions. 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Representative Miljenko Doric?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58521	This amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58522	Here you go. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58523	Mr. Minister, in the current Law on Islands, reads Article 10(3): "Rightly located on a privileged, privileged price of ferry transport." It was said that this item would indeed be transmitted as you said earlier in the Law on Liner Maritime Transport which was not done. I'd like to believe that it's a failure, not an attempt to fool our islanders. This is where they lose the right to such privileged transportation. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58524	To vote. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 15 votes for and one abstention. 64 against. No proposed amendment was adopted. 5. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58525	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58526	It becomes an integral part of the law. Six. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58527	This amendment cannot be accepted because it is governed by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58528	SDP representative club Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58529	Mr. President, I am withdrawing the amendment even though we are dissatisfied because we consider that here, however, there was a very clear indication of the need for the extermination of wild boars that are pests on the islands. We have resistance from the islanders, and I think it was an opportunity, but it's the only thing that hasn't been accepted from our amendment, so then we withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58530	Amendment withdrawn 6. Thank you. 7th Representative Miljenko Doric?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58531	This amendment cannot be accepted because it is governed by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58532	Mr. Minister, he is not governed by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would have accepted the government's amendment if you'd only stayed in the first sentence. And I will read it, "The islands forbid the introduction and breeding of savages who do not dwell on the island of nature." Great. But later you have paragraph 3. The deer shovel doesn't live, the deer axis doesn't live. ... No, no matter, no matter. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in contrast, this article is directly contrary to the first paragraph and therefore I ask that this article be voted here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58533	Please vote. Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 16 for. 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment of Agent Irene Ahel?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58534	Well, it's not acceptable because we've already thrown out the muflon by amendment of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58535	Amendment withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58536	Thank you very much for throwing out the mufflon. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58537	So there's no mufflon. The 9th Amendment of Agent Nikola Ivanish?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58538	We do not accept this amendment, also arranged by the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58539	It's... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No MPs, we have to vote. [[No Ivanish.]] Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? Four for it. Nine abstentions. 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 10. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58540	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58541	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 11th of the same Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58542	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58543	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 12th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58544	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58545	It's part of the Law. 13th Representative Drazen Bošnjakovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58546	We cannot accept this because the Law states that both the state and the county and the city should not be offered at the same time. But if the state decides to buy that island in the first place, then it does, only if it doesn't want the state to go further.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58547	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58548	Representative Drazen Bošnjaković. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment of 14th Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58549	We cannot, unfortunately, accept this amendment because this provision has already been resolved in Article 35(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58550	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58551	... /The speaker was subsequently turned on./... I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58552	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 15. Also MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinović?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58553	This amendment can also not be accepted because the right to first purchase does not restrict the right to dispose of real estate. That's what I said before when I explained the amendment to the government, that's what I said. Only if the obligation is not carried out then it must be offered first to the state and then the state will depriving obviously which island it is already for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58554	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58555	Forgive me for this, but it means a complete misunderstanding of the fiduciary institute. You see at fiduciary you pass immediately at the moment of the creation of demand property to the lender. Don't confuse fiduciary with insurance other. No, I'm not. ... /... [[You don't understand the speaker.]] With a mortgage. You're chasing a mortgage and fiduciary. So when non-payment of demand comes to a secured such demand by mortgage to sale and that makes sense. But in fiduciary, no. In fiduciary terms, at the exact moment of demand, the property stopped. And if the search doesn't pay off, then there's nothing left. The property stays. Only if the search paid off so you have a reverse process would the property be returned. There's nothing to charge for here, or the state can't do that, so it's pointless. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Please vote. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58556	Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 21 for it. Two abstentions. 60 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 16th Agent Ante Markov?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58557	Well, this is, we don't accept this amendment, although it was a good idea for a representative of Markov, but I don't think that since the right to have real estate, we don't think there's any need for these island guarantee funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58558	Representative Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58559	Thank you very much. Well, the intensity was simply that since small, especially islands are not inhabited in some way, they are limited, especially by this Transport Act and have great limitations. So you can't put fiducium on your land. You can't. If you can't give up fiduciary, you can't even get credit. And if you don't have any other real estate than just that on the island, which is usually how you have a problem. So, I think the government, if it doesn't accept this amendment, and I think it's worth voting on, would have to take care of this. Because you can't leave one part of our citizens without the possibility of having their own real estate and not wanting to sell it, they want to leave it to themselves. Of course it's a constitutional category. So it would be a good idea for the government to think about and sort this area out. Because only then would that be concrete. Minister, try to sort this out somehow, because it would not be good for the public and for all of us, our responsibilities and for those who intend to support this law to keep this in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58560	He won't, he won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58561	Let's try to work this out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58562	Vote or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58563	Vote, vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58564	Please vote. Let's get on with it. The result? 16 votes for, 3 abstentions, 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58565	Amendment 17 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58566	It becomes an integral part of the law. 18. Also representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58567	And with full understanding of what the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović wrote, I don't think there's any need to write it in the law, because the obligations of the seller and the buyer are regulated by the purchase agreement. So, I don't think there's any need.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58568	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58569	It's exactly the ministers that regulate themselves by contract. But unfortunately, contracts are known to be broken, by all means. Here, unfortunately, often from the state. And then in such a way, give some order and peace, honor to everyone but you know faith to anyone. Thus, the state often, even though it is obvious claims, points its creditors to a lawsuit. And in this way we make it impossible for these people, we have to admit that they were somehow brought into an invisible position, because they must protect national interest through their own properties, unlike the state and units of local self-government that sold out and sold out their fields. Well, since that's the case, and in some ways we all agree together that we should start with this, at least let's give these sellers, the forced sellers the opportunity to give up unless the price is paid within the agreed time limit. Because, unfortunately, it's a common case. Here's a case law on how many cases there are where the state's been sued, just like this and a version of other situations where the state hasn't fulfilled its obligation. And a team before the state budget unfortunately still has these, as we have seen the law you are proposing has not been provided with the funds. That law will come into force soon. And in such a way, precisely if the purchase price is not here, that is, paying itself the essential component of the contract, because we have to make that exception, because these are nevertheless the exceptions to that regular course of things and the obligation of relations, i.e. sales and real rights should be met exactly that. I think the citizens in that sense would be more peaceful and content. And in such a way, if it does not come to that payment, we could offer freely to other people who are willing. People pay the price in advance. And here he has to wait. ... to do whatever the state has to do with. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58570	To vote. Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 18 for, 3 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19th Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58571	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58572	Accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. 20th Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58573	We do not accept this amendment because the Law on maritime good and seaports and the Regulation on the procedure for establishing maritime good limits is prescribed. This is the proposal for a provision of Article 35c. it is fully in line with that legislation. And by implementing this law, the main adoption of a state programme for the protection and use of small occasionally populated, uninhabited islands will speed up the process of establishing maritime goods borders on Croatian islands, as this is a prerequisite for any sale of our small occasionally populated and uninhabited islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58574	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58575	It is precisely because these owners are being punished in some way and they must train themselves to be trained by the state through them to train its own national interests, to care for national interests we must approach extremely cautiously and protect these people. Therefore, if it were possible to contract a part of the real estate sale that would have subsequently entered the maritime well-being, it would be invalid contracts anyway. These things are extra commercial and it's not at all controversial and it doesn't matter. In this way, if the state, or units of local self-government, don't arrange it, this is for these people dead, dead capital, property they can't even dispose of, nor offer it to the state itself. And it's the state's fault that local self-government units didn't handle it. And it can be endless. And maybe that man is the only thing he's got to survive him and his family. Give me the vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58576	Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 18 for, 2 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21 representatives of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58577	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58578	It becomes an integral part of the law. 22, MP Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58579	We do not accept because the same provision is accepted by Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58580	We have to vote because there is no representative. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Who's up for the amendment? The result? 15 for, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23rd Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58581	So I don't accept the amendment because we believe there's no need to limit the purpose for which the lease is carried out, or concession for public purposes only, I don't know in health, education, etc. Because the purpose of each islet is defined in spatial plans, i.e. spatial-planned documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58582	Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58583	Mr. President, we talk very often about corruption and the problem of irresponsible administration. Here we give the local self-government units an opportunity, especially stressing that part, that they can express interest in the purchase of land and that they essentially limit the ownership of the individual. I'm talking about local and regional self-government units. If we do not limit their interest to culture, health and education, this means that we do not allow them to express commercial interests. So they will limit the private interest of the citizens of Croatia and we give the possibility of this law, by this law we allow the administration to sell this same land to a stranger, not to sell it to 99 years. Yes to use for 99 years. So we're allowing this law of abuse by the administration, by policy which we shouldn't do. We shouldn't be working. Our problem is to acquire ownership of islands, but our problem and corruption, our problem is irresponsible management, unfortunately far more practical and more difficult to challenge citizens' mistrust. I fear that if we do not limit the interest of the administration and those who will show a desire to buy private property, we will encourage them to solve with bribery and corruption what they would not otherwise probably even do to Croatian citizens and individuals. And I think that this article should be considered well again. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58584	Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 20 for, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24 amendments to the Committee on Legislatives. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58587	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58588	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Minister. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 81 votes for and 8 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. We have another proposal for the conclusion of the club of HSP representatives, which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge that as part of the state programme for pre-school education and primary school and secondary school education on the islands within the meaning of Article 27. The island law addresses the issue of high school nutrition on an island that attends high school in towns on land. Minister Calmeta, please show this proposal's conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58589	I don't think we can accept this, because what's the difference if one student from the island, for example? Travels to Split to school or to Zadar or I don't know where, and has a marenda subsidy, breakfast, and a student who travels from the mountain to Split or from Ravni Kotar to Zadar, etc. No, no, no. I don't think there's any difference, and we have to solve it all or nothing, we can't share it now, so we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58590	HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58591	Mr. Minister that only in Greece and that we have 20 lines for the island a day and that ships drive quite late at night would walk right away. No one from Visa, Hvar or Korčula goes to school on a daily basis, it goes from Coglen to it is true, but they do not go from other Central Dalmatian islands, but unfortunately they have to stay in Split and there is a problem. There are no places in the dormitory, and there is a situation where these children live in private and then they have to eat who knows where. My wish was to try to sort it out in some way. It's not even about the big money or the big number of kids, but I'm asking all one Mr. President to vote on my proposal for a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-08-0.u58592	Please vote. The result? 8 for, 2 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the next item - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic will further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
