ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to explain in short lines the proposal for this law to confirm the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. First of all, let me say a few words and get back to the past. In 2000, the European Commission made a unilateral decision and made it possible for Croatia and the countries in the environment to export sugar in, to the European Union market. Croatia signs a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2001, and this becomes a component of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The possibility of duty-free and quota-free exports of sugar to European Union countries is therefore being incorporated into the European Union market. This decision, which was made in 2000, meant saving for the Croatian sugar industry and practically from that period, the Croatian sugar industry of one constant loss and industry that was in significant problems is becoming an interesting branch of the economy mainly in the food sector and Croatia is making the most of what has been made available and is starting to stabilise the entire sugar industry in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand, the production of sugar tail is becoming a very interesting culture for our agricultural producers. In such circumstances, sugar becomes one of Croatia's most significant export products to the European Union and during certain periods of time, exports of sugar over certain years account for almost 50% of total exports to the countries of the European Union of agricultural and food products. In 2004, the European Union started or the European Commission launched the process of reforming the sugar sector. The European Commission's launch of the sugar reform process indicates a request to the Republic of Croatia in October 2004 that requires a certain amount of understanding from Croatia and asks for negotiations on the introduction of the quota to begin. The Croatian Government, respecting the fact that Croatia has made significant progress in the 2004 and 2005 process, means in the accession process from obtaining a positive opinion to obtaining candidate status, and until the opening of negotiations, the accession to full membership is in full respect of this requirement by the European Commission and on 2 June 2005 it takes the decision to open negotiations on the introduction of a sugar export quota. The government's negotiating platform has been designated by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and I as Minister to run these negotiations and tasks us to create a negotiating platform and our Ministry makes a decision on, and makes a negotiating platform and the Government adopts that negotiating platform on 15 September 2005. And that's when we practically start negotiations. Normally both in the platform and in the negotiations, the Croatian side took care of the importance of sugar production for Croatia and mainly in the external trade, which means sugar for the external trade of the Republic of Croatia. And according to this point of view and the platform was that in no way, the question of the production of sugar on the one hand and, as well as the export of sugar remains one of the significant branches of the food industry and the production of sugar beet to be significant for our agricultural producers. In accordance with this, Croatia and the Croatian delegation negotiate with the European Commission and conclude negotiations in the fourth round of 14 March 2006 with a set agreement which is practically the subject of this Act amending and supplementing the Protocol amending and supplementing the law, this, Stabilisation and Association Agreement. When we talk about the agreement, the Croatian side insisted that the quota cannot be less than the current level of sugar exports, and we have practically installed it. The agreed quota of 180 thousand tonnes was significantly higher than the average average annual export quantity that was somewhere below 120 thousand tonnes. The Croatian side also actively reported on the negotiations by representatives of the sugar industry, co-ordinated and agreed with them. And accordingly, we had said a good situation regarding these negotiations and to determine this quota which is a quota that absolutely meets what the Croatian sugar industry expected and which was the intensity to protect itself through these negotiations. But in all of this, it's not just a question of quota. The quota is something that is very important, but the negotiations were not only about the quota without customs exports. Negotiations were also conducted in a way that excluded Croatia from countries where sugar can be exported from the European Union. For the simple reason we need to know one fact. By 2000, the Croatian sugar industry could not compete with the cheap sugar that was coming and imported from the countries of the European Union, so-called the “C” quota which could not be placed in the countries of the European Union but was something that their producers received a certain subsidy and that amount of sugar from the “C” quota was exported. These prices were significantly lower than the prices of sugar production in the Republic of Croatia. And from that moment on, Croatia almost all its production of sugar and sugar beet exports to the countries of the European Union for reasons that it cannot be competitive with sugar from imports on the domestic market with full customs and all that followed and cannot be competitive and for these reasons it was forced to export all its sugar. So we had a situation that Croatia exported its own sugar production completely, and for its own purposes it used fully imported sugar from the countries of the European Union. So, this provision that the European Union is giving up export subsidies to sugar and similar products on the occasion of exporting to the Republic of Croatia puts the Croatian sugar industry in one completely different situation. The Croatian sugar industry will no longer be dependent on exporting sugar to the European Union, but will be able to compete in a competitive way with its product and place it on the domestic market. Also, as part of the sugar reform, this so-called "sugar" disappears. the “C” quota and since this year, there is no “C” quota in the European Union. What does that mean? So there is no more cheap sugar that can be exported to other countries, including the Republic of Croatia. And determining that now that there is no "C" quota, there is no more export subsidies on sugar exports, puts the Croatian sugar industry in a very good situation and the position that it can compete on the domestic market and that certain quantities of sugar can also be placed on the domestic market. And within that fact and the fixed quotas of 180 000 tonnes, I can tell you that sugar producers have shown great satisfaction and that was what was most important to us in the ministry. So, through the full negotiations, sugar producers were involved, we maintained regular coordination with them, we agreed with attitudes and we accepted something that would not endanger the Croatian sugar industry, mainly the definition that there is no subsidized export of sugar to the Republic of Croatia is something that is very important to the same order of size as the size of the quota. And here, in this context, after signing such an agreement, this agreement had to pass the procedure both in the European Commission and in the Member States, and I can say that Croatia and the European Commission did a good job, that the European Commission at the Council of Ministers accepted this agreement and that the Member States ratified. I would like to say that Croatia has achieved a good position, that we have respected the European Commission's views without jeopardising the interest of any segment of the Croatian industry, mainly not the sugar industry. That we've created a good guess and that's what I'm free to say, and I can basically say it for a reason because it causes our sugar manufacturer's satisfaction that we've done a mutually good job. When it comes to agreeing on negotiations on the fixing of the quota, then it is also very important to know the fact that a production quota will be established for sugar in accession negotiations. Sugar belongs to a group of sensitive products for which production quotas are established by entering the European Union and this is a very, very important fact why the Republic of Croatia has agreed to these negotiations. The negotiations were not easy, but I must express the satisfaction that we have found appropriate solutions that satisfy and the interest of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand but also satisfy the interest of the European Commission and here I propose this distinguished House to adopt this Act confirming the protocol on the modification and additions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for the reason that, following the adoption of this Protocol, this law, we have prepared a regulation concerning the quota schedule and that is when the Parliament accepts the regulation on the allocation of the quota and so that our sugar producers are not suspended for a certain period of time from the possibility of applying this Agreement. And in this context, here I expect the honourable MPs to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79482	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's not true, Mr. Minister. The European Union's request for a sugar quota is not binding on the Republic of Croatia. The European Union may demand whatever it wants, but they have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the European Union's poor signing of the agreement is their problem. We've negotiated him well. We got an unlimited quota and they could demand whatever I wanted. We shouldn't have agreed to that and not opened it. So their request to open the quota negotiations is not binding on the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79484	That's not what the minister said was binding on the Republic of Croatia. No, I don't. That it is binding on the Republic of Croatia. No, I don't. Second correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79485	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting a number of incorrect allegations by the minister explaining this so-called The great success in the principle of hard work for you players says we had a good situation regarding the negotiations. Well, of course you had something to say because of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement we didn't have a limit at all. Then he says further, the EU minister is asking for a population understanding. Not understanding. He's asking us to set ourselves a limit. Therefore, and this does not apply to one Member State of the European Union because the European Union is just working on a strategy for reforming the sugar market. Well, it's no success. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79486	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79487	Thank you. Mr. Minister says this agreement will not endanger the Croatian sugar industry. I wish I could share the optimism of Mr. Minister and the entire government. Unfortunately, however, it is this agreement that endangers further increases in sugar production and will put a very short-term position on one of the three Croatian sugars that can freely close their doors.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79488	Honorable representative, Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79489	Well, I would warn Mr. Minister that the current 7000 tonnes of duty-free imports from the European Union have been raised to 80,000 tonnes. Which is a loss for the Croatian budget. Therefore, we cannot be satisfied with this agreement. With 7000 tonnes of duty-free imports so far, it was a loss of about 450 thousand euros. And now with 80,000 tons, that's about 5 million euros somewhere. Therefore, we cannot be satisfied with this agreement because it is going to harm Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79490	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79491	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has chosen to say that we, in the negotiations, have achieved a mutually good job. I must say that these negotiations have achieved a good job for the Republic of Croatia for members of the European Union, but to the detriment of the Republic of Croatia. First, it is impossible to achieve a good job in negotiations for the Republic of Croatia if we have no restrictions on exports of sugar, and now we are importing a limit of 180, 180,000 tonnes. Secondly, at the same time 12 times the quota for free imports of sugar into the Republic of Croatia from Member States of the European Union is increasing. At the same time in the next 3 years, the customs quota in that segment needs to be reduced in a way that will lose about 5m euros related to it. And the third, quite clearly, was not seen here at all about the development perspective of the Republic of Croatia. In such a situation, we should take into account another very important issue, that we will get sugar that will reduce the customs rate, which, given our productivity of work, is cheaper and even worse, which will come into our area, while at the same time stifling our producers and their placement. Therefore, this is an agreement to the harm of the Republic of Croatia, especially sugar beet producers in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79492	The committee's reporters? Agriculture and forestry committee, legislation? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79493	Dear ladies and gentlemen. It's not a commercial, you'll hear why. I've heard a lot of failed arguments, bad international agreements, but this one will definitely go to anthology. Therefore, according to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia did not have any export restrictions on exports of sugar to the Union market, and the European Union imposed itself on itself. Assuming Croatia will not export as much sugar as it now exports. That was their assessment. Why the European Union now decides to squeeze Croatia we do not know. We assume for the purpose of burdening their market with imports of sugar from the Caribbean or Asia. And what is absolutely certain is that Croatia, with its exports of sugar that accounts for approximately 1% of sugar on the Union market, could not have caused such an economic disturbance to go to such an agreement. If sugar had really been a problem, it would probably have been discussed in Protocol 7. But at Protocol 7, which, if you remember here, was ratified in 2004. That wasn't a problem for the Union. And then, by chance, none of them thought of it, and the Croatian government didn't have to agree to anything. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is the only existing framework for the talks of the Republic of Croatia on this problem until we enter the European Union. It states in Article 10.8 that if certain market disturbances occur on the other side, then the party that has been damaged for excessive imports shall convene a meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Council and shall elaborate on it that there has been an economic disturbance and request that provisional measures be imposed. It is precisely the procedure of the club of HSP representatives that he proposed in the Croatian Parliament as early as July 2005. This was held in September of last year with the support of other opposition parties. However, the government remained deaf and blind to these demands, deeming it perfectly natural that if the European Union asks Croatia to introduce and limit its exports and introduce import, export quotas that it is in itself understandable. Be careful, the European Union has not yet adopted a new strategy for reforming the European Union's sugar market. It is not valid for the member states of the Union, but this agreement has become valid for the Republic of Croatia which is not a member of the Union. It is one of the historic successes of Minister Cobankovic and the Croatian government. What is terrible is that Croatia is said to profit with this. The thing is, we asked that if we already agree to an export quota, any quota must then be a quota within the production opportunities of Croatia, which is 30,000 hectares under the sugar tail times the European average of 8 tonnes of sugar per hectare, which is 240 thousand tonnes. The government claimed they'd do it. Moreover, the present minister claimed in the Vesnik that he would not sign fewer quotas. He even offered his own resignation. If that's the case. But words are one thing and deeds are another. Croatia is still a helmet for the European Union in production, but year after year production is growing. This year the sugars produced: Parishs – 75 thousand tonnes, VIRO – 75 thousand tonnes and Kandit Osijek – 90 thousand tonnes. So we've already gone way beyond what Mr. Cobankovic claims we can do as much as possible. Exports this year will surely exceed 220 thousand tonnes by the end of the year. Last year, there was an 189,000-tonne export. So this is a direct damage to the Croatian economy that will be measured in millions of euros and no one can claim that this is a historic success I repeat, because there were no restrictions in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement there were no restrictions, we introduce them with this. As restrictions are introduced that can be fatal to Croatian sugars, the matter is not even in the social aspect. If we really limit exports like this and allow the flooding of the Croatian import sugar market, which is what we are witnessing now, and with this legal reinforcement, one of the three Croatian sugars can be destroyed. That's what we warned you about. Now is it going to be Osijek or is it going to be a Virovitic or is it going to be maybe County it's now a thing that someone will later decide on the horror of these people. Because destroying, say, County Sugars means a thousand people on the street from the sugar shop itself plus employees in the transport industry, HZ, auto transporters, sanitary services, etc. etc. For Virovitica and other cities, this applies about the same way. It is therefore that, at the request of someone from the European Union who wants to train strictness on candidates, the Croatian Government agrees to separate negotiations on sugar, while at the same time there is no nerve to agree to separate fish negotiations in terms of the implementation of the economic belt. So when it comes to the economic belt, then we cannot agree to separate negotiations but we want to negotiate this fully with the European Union with other negotiations, and when it comes to sugar, we are not going to negotiations on agriculture as a whole, but rather agree to negotiations beyond those that we are having with the European Union and what is most insane is the procedure that the European Union itself has imposed on itself a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is to prove that there is an economic disturbance, to prove that this economic disorder is significant for their economy, to call on the Stabilisation and Association Council and then to determine what measures will be. All of this has been bypassed only so that someone from the government or the entire government can be gracious to the members of the European Commission. This is therefore one of the historic disasters of the Croatian economy when it comes to agriculture and the club of HSP representatives will not support this agreement. Thank you. I give you these two kilos of sugar, as these are probably one of the last kilos you will be able to buy from Croatian pastries.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79494	Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79495	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. Allow me in my opening statement I said that the Croatian Government did a good job for the Croatian sugar industry, which I can also argue with the statements of the representatives of the sugar industry. But in order to back that up, I'm going to give you an exact indicator that I can give to the distinguished MPs later on in writing. But in this year for the first 10 months, Croatia imported sugar in amount, imported well, imported sugar of 308 thousand 457 tonnes. The average price of that sugar is 470 euros. 470 euros! At the same time...... 470 euros a ton, I speak in tones. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So if I say 470 euros a ton. At the same time, for the first 10 months, Croatia exported 165 thousand 444 tonnes at an average price of 730 euros. When we know that in 2007, according to this agreement, when it starts to apply, that an integrated clause on the non-subsidisation of sugar exports to the Republic of Croatia means that there is also no more quota C – the reform of sugar in the European Union is completed and completed and adopted and no more quota C than this year and no more subsidized exports. There has been no subsidized exports since 2007 when the agreement begins to apply. It means that the Croatian sugar industry will have significant opportunities for sugar placement on the domestic market because it will not have unfair competition and in this as significantly as the established quota should look at what I said was a mutually good agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79496	Thank you. Peace, please! Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Ivo Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79497	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mr. Minister, you think we're mentally retarded... And the peasants and everyone you speak to now, whoever listens to it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If the reform in the European Union is completed as far as the sugar markets are concerned, it does not apply to accession countries and we are still far from it. For God's sake, we are now prejudicing some things and we are in such a situation that we have to be obedient to some kind of policy, I'm not going to say what kind of policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79498	Please, correcting incorrect allegations, not comments and controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79499	It's an incorrect finding.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79500	Specify which quote is incorrect and then select it, don't pollemize it, you'll have a chance all in the debate to polymize, but now correct the incorrect quote. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79501	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Most of what Mr. Minister was saying is incorrect, but I'll say what's wrong. The import you spoke of 271 thousand tonnes, according to my data, you have yet to be completed, means 300 and some thousand tonnes from the European Union have not yet been completed. There's no effect on what you said on the domestic market. I'll tell you why. So, dear Mr. Minister, see that this sugar is all coming back, and almost possibly on the same trucks back to the European Union, and that's one job that should be dealt with a little bit. It's a little bit of poop on that. There will be no influence, no influence on the domestic market, and don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79502	Third correction, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79503	Dear Minister, you say, the reform of the Union's sugar market is in force, but it does not apply to the Republic of Croatia, and we do not have to agree to any agreement outside of the agricultural chapter until this chapter is over. Or tell me, when did we approach the European Union that we must simply accept all their strategies and reforms?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79504	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79505	Your Honor, Mr. President. Since colleagues have corrected these incorrect allegations, I will have the ministers incorrectly quoted. He says, "We've achieved mutual benefit." So how is mutually beneficial when we didn't have a limit, now we have a limit? So the European Union is benefiting, what benefit do we have? Well, that, we have bitter sugar, not any use.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79506	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79507	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I don't know if I understood the minister well when he was talking about a mutually good agreement, but now it doesn't matter. Here's the thing. Let's take the turn. Clearly, we are all calling for this Stabilisation and Association Agreement from 29 October 2001, which took place, when, in effect, 2005. But I'm sure it's the key to this Appendix 4 in the H bracket. And it says that the Community will apply duty-free imports, meaning, under 1 in the Community of products originating in Croatia, under headings 701 and 702, the Combined Nomenclature within the annual quota of 180 thousand tonnes of net weight, and under 2, Croatia will apply a reduced customs rate to imports into Croatia of products originating in the Community, again under heading 701 of the Combined Nomenclature under the annual quota of 80 thousand tonnes of net weight. And then it's said, on January 1st 2007, customs will be reduced 75%, clearly basic customs duties. On 1 January 2008, customs duties will be reduced to 70% of the basic customs duty, and from 1 January 2009, further customs duties will be reduced to 50% of the basic customs duty, etc. Now what does that mean? What's a fundamental question is whether or not it was possible to tear it apart. We all probably agree that, at all, this question should not have been opened more precisely. On the other hand, it is certain that the sugar industry, i.e. these large three Croatian sugars, are saved thanks to the fact that in early 2000, the European Union literally opened up to these types of products. As Mr Arlovic used to say to me, it was absolutely understandable thinking in Brussels. They clearly want to protect their economy, to protect their community. However, I cannot be surprised at the logic of the Croatian government, which instead of protecting the position of the Republic of Croatia or its sugarcanes or its small producers, thousands and thousands of farmers. I'm simply not going to say that she agrees to capitulation, but she agrees to compromise national interest without this ccc. What's that under a thousand 701 and a thousand 702? These are sugar cane sugars, sugar tails, chemically read sucrose in solid form, it's aromatised or coloured I don't know what, then other sugars including chemically pure lactose, maltose, etc., etc. Manufacture in which all the materials used must be classified within a heading other than the number of products, in which the value of the materials of Chapter 17 used must not exceed 30 % of the price of the product "Franco" factory and not to list everything further. What is also interesting to mention how Croatian sugar exports flowed. We had a simple situation until 2000, 2001, 2, when Croatian exports moved in 2001 about 40,000 tonnes, 2002. 65 thousand tonnes, in 2001, that import was measured by 23.4 million dollars, 2002. 39.7 million dollars. And now we come to 2003 when Croatia exports as many as 162 thousand tonnes for $119 million. In 2004, it comes to that familiar fall. We fall again with that export to only 40 million dollars, but in 2005, when we exported 189,000 tonnes of export or exported sugar, it was $134.5 million, and for the first 10 months of this year we have already received $113 million, or our sugarcane. Which will say that this year too, exports of more than 189,000 tonnes will be achieved, and we now agree to 180 thousand tonnes. And I'm sure the financial effect will be over $140 million. On the other hand, it is my judgment that when this substance is done, that Europe should in no way be blackmailed, under quotes, because Croatia, even as we know, is 3 times more imports of agricultural products from the European Union. That's about $2 billion somewhere than we're exporting right now. So the rebalance is 1:3 in favour, clearly, of Western European countries. And understandablely, the most imports have been imported, especially lately through large these trade chains which cannot compete regardless of what is now trying to do with these small shops. And also at the moment when we left the tourist portfolio to foreigners de facto we left the market to them, so there is no need to wonder why such imports of agricultural products occur. In one word, we could probably at this point and without this agreement. So once again, I will say, I understand the clear position of Brussels, but I cannot understand the position of official Zagreb. If these import trends continue, we will all find ourselves on an extremely serious issue. 20% is increasing annual imports of agricultural goods from Europe, it's somewhere by about $400 million, exports are increasing even a little bit more, but it's not half of that $400 million and it's asking the question of when it's going to be eliminated. We still manage to service that external debt, i.e. its imports, but whether with a modest export of only 10 billion we will be able to do so in due course, while normally finding funds for $20 billion of imports plus about $3 billion I don't know how to pay off foreign loans, etc. It stays to be seen. The problem is serious, maybe what I'm talking about right now is far more serious than sugar, but no matter what I'm saying, it's not the time to politicize, but to worry about this kind of official policy sure that what is signed is clearly more or less everything that's being put before someone, and the best thing that might be the case with this unfortunate ZERP that's ultimately not going to bring anyone. This may also be the time to start the agricultural land allocation when it comes to farmers to stimulate this peasant, not to put out agricultural production especially when it comes to these large sugars because in 2005 and 2006, it will achieve exports of over $140 million, and that is about 20% of the total Croatian exports of agricultural products. For the end, I think three things are important. Without the export of sugar in such or more quantities in the right sense, Slavonia will suffer after she first found herself in the situation of normal and war, then the collapse of all these banks, we have one international contract, I understand that international contracts are above the law, but then we should follow that logic equally in Brussels and finally what is certain, which we all feel we have covered with that import we are and the question is whether, under this agreement, we will be even greater import addicts than we are now or eventually come true to the words of Mr. Cobankovic. I want to believe that no one has forced us to such an agreement and that we have had one clean situation and so much of that agreement either behind that agreement should have stopped or we should not have offered to sign it at this time because at this point for two more years we had to express myself in such a clear position that we could, without any quotas, without any restrictions, place sugar on the European Union market. Unfortunately, we have brought ourselves or limited ourselves to 180 thousand tonnes a year, meaning that 140 million dollars, and the question is if, on the other hand, we are openly talking about importing an 80 thousand-ton quota with reduced customs duties, which will mean tomorrow's not only quantity of imported goods, but also for the tomorrow's status of our sugarcanes. In one word, I would like Mr. Cobankovic to come forward, but I doubt that when Croatia does, it will be. All in all, I believe that this Agreement or the Protocol as it bears the title was unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79508	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79509	Mr. President, this is where they've been working all along and what counterpart Cain said the quota was worth 180 thousand tons. If we know that our exported 80,000 tonnes is European.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79510	A colleague of Kurt's, at the inaccuracy of Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79511	Well, it's an incorrect assumption that we have a 180 thousand-ton sugar quota because we don't have it. If we know that 80,000 tonnes exported to the European Union, the European Union has the right to return 80,000 tonnes to Croatia dutylessly, then that quota is no longer 180,000 tonnes, but 100,000 tonnes. It's not nonsense, Mr. Minister, it's facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79512	SDP representative club, respected representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79513	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. Here we have one more debate about sugar, sugar quotas, it is confirmed that sugar comes at the end, but this time obviously some bitter sugar comes at the end of this year's meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I will immediately say that it is unacceptable for the SDP to amend the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in such a way as to introduce a provision on the introduction of a quota for the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union of 180 thousand tonnes per year. The coalition government, led by the SDP, has succeeded in negotiations on the conclusion of the SAA, originally ensuring completely free sugar exports to the European Union without any quantitative restrictions. This was certainly a significant negotiating success of the former government, which also allowed for the increase of our exports of sugar to the European Union by at least 100m euros per year or in the medium term at least half a billion euros in the trade balance of Croatia. There was no reason to accept the European Union's initiative as clearly as we understand why this initiative started, there was no reason to accept that negotiations on changes to the SAA should be started to introduce the export quotas. We have already explained on the legal side that there are no such reasons, that there are no material reasons, it was not necessary under the existing provisions of the SAA which spoke and said that the provisions of the SAA can only be changed with the agreement of the parties of one side and the other, therefore without our consent to the changes of the free exports of sugar could remain still. However, when the Government adopted the opening of negotiations on its own initiative, I do not know what, it is likely that some objections from Brussels agreed in advance that this quota, even if it was agreed at a level even greater than the production capacity of our sugars, would still be a more unfavourable solution than the existing free exports, if for no other reason, because of the administrative procedures for the determination of quotas, checking the execution of quotas and, of course, making it difficult for exports to the variants of the existence of export quotas. However, the problem is not only administrative. We already know today that the 170 thousand-ton sugar quota, the export quota is already covered by now, or that already already over-exported from Croatia sugar, and that quota is definitely very, very static. It does not cover current and production opportunities in agriculture, the ability to produce sugar tails and the ability to produce our sugarcanes. Perhaps this export quota seemingly corresponds to what we can do today but in a dynamic, developmental sense it makes it impossible to achieve all of the development potential of our sugar production, which is still on the hectare and on the heated surfaces of the sugar tail far below the average of the European Union. The determination of such an export quota did not take into account the possibility of a dynamic increase in the quality and yield of sugar beet farming, but did not take into account the possibility of increasing productivity in the production of sugar in Croatia over the next few years. In all of this, when we discussed this problem earlier, we said that at least it should be considered if someone has self-initiatedly agreed to open negotiations that at least the existing heated surface area of the 30 thousand hectares sugar, at least to consider the possible achievement of the European average of 8 tonnes of sugar produced per hectare of sugar beet, even though the European average of about 6 tonnes is in us, even though the average is far less than the productivity in some of the more developed countries that cross 10 and 12 tonnes of sugar per hectare. Therefore, at least 240, 250 thousand tonnes might be possible but still then staticly cover the actual export options of our sugar. The new element of increasing the duty-free ability to import sugar in Croatia from 10, 12 times from 7 thousand to 80,000 tonnes was added to all of this, and so we gave two concessions and received insufficient compensation in the elimination of subsidies to sugar products on export to Croatia. Therefore, there is no real and valid reason for the SDP to change the free export of sugar to the European Union and therefore the SDP will also refuse the proposal to access the changes to the SAA and introduce restrictions on the export of Croatian sugar to the European Union market. Exporting beyond our sugar is only about 1% of the consumption of sugar in the European Union, it certainly does not cause or could cause serious damage to the sugar industry in the European Union and we do not really have a pre-time obligation to join the sugar market, in the sugar market order in the European Union before we agree on the way we engage in the negotiations in the agriculture chapter as part of the accession of the European Union. If other clubs, if everyone in the Assembly would accept that this agreement is not ratified, would protect the interests of sugar beet producers and their families, interests, the life interests of workers in the production of sugar and their families and would be able to improve in the Croatian Parliament what is unnecessaryly damaged by the introduction of a sugar export quota from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79514	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79515	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct my colleague Mimica in part of the exhibition when he said it was a great success of the government, when she agreed there was no limited export of sugar from Croatia to the European Union. The success of someone or merit and achievement is meant to be done with some effort. And we here clearly heard that there was no demand at all at that time. So, then, the European Union did not ask us to do anything. At this moment, just a little while, right now, the European Union is looking for it, and we, dear colleagues, must understand that we are only one party to the negotiations. So let's let the minister and let's not come forward so aggressively to him who clearly told us here that's not really what we're losing. So, we have to figure it out one more time. We're only one party to the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79516	Minister Cobankovic. Please! Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79517	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me a few more clarifications about this because I think it's a good part of some misunderstandings, and I'll be free to say that I don't know a certain problem. Prior to that, I would also like to emphasise that the opinion and its satisfaction on this agreement have been expressed by representatives of the sugar industry that monitor the situation and who know very well what is going on in the sugar sector in the European Union and in the world market. Croatia has been conducting these negotiations in co-ordination with the sugar industry. Once again I will say very responsibly, I will very responsibly tell the ladies and gentlemen of the representatives that Croatia has done a good job. This is based on the fact that I told you how much imports of sugar into the Republic of Croatia and on the fact that Croatia was forced to carry out all the quantities of its produced sugar and sugar beet for reasons because it was the second sugar regime in the European Union that allowed the quota to be c) within the European Union at very low prices to be exported to third countries, why sugar producers... sugar in the European Union received subsidies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Agreement abolishes the possibility of subsidising sugar exports to the Republic of Croatia. Also, Croatia is currently not directly concerned with the provisions of the sugar reform but indirectly refers in a way that since 2007 there has been no c quota), no cheap sugar and, plus, Croatia is exempt from the countries where sugar exports are subsidized, which means that sugar from the European Union will not be able to be introduced at those low prices and thus compete with our sugar. We created an assumption by this agreement that a significant amount of sugar produced in Croatia is placed on the domestic market and that is one of the reasons why. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79518	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79519	That is one of the reasons, Mr. Honorable Representative, which is why the representatives of the sugar industry who know this issue very well express their satisfaction with the agreement reached. In the opening part, I also said that the agreement cannot be seen only in the context of the quota size established but must be seen in the integrity of what it means for the sugar industry. For these reasons, responsible here in front of you, in front of this distinguished home, both of you distinguished representatives and in front of all the Croatian public, I argue and stand behind the fact that the Croatian sugar industry has received one good basis for its progress and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79520	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79521	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's claim that there's a lack of knowledge of this issue here. Mr Minister, we representatives thank God we are written and all of us have read the Association Agreement and under this agreement Croatia has the right to unlimited exports of sugar to the European Union provided that it was produced in Croatian sugars and that is why Croatia exported sugar, they were employed peasants. In my Slavonia, in my Kobash, the peasants produced sugars. You now accept quotas, change the agreement and thus damage Croatia and Croatia's interests. Therefore, he should not be particularly educated and specifically referred to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79522	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79523	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's just not true, Mr. Minister, your claim to be related to import sugar. This cheaply subsidized export sugar from the European Union came to Croatia to our candidate industry that put it into its products. We have had double benefits, cheap sugar from the European Union in the candidate industry, and on the other hand, we have expensively exported all our sugar to the European Union. And don't use it because it's not an argument. And don't use the argument. I beg you, don't use an argument of satisfaction to sugarcane. If Sladora's parish is satisfied she must be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79524	Whether the minister will use an argument that, on an incorrect assumption, you limit yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79525	... in the County satisfied because it is owned by the state so that if they were not satisfied, they would have had other repercussions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79526	Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79527	I wanted to correct Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim that sugar producers were satisfied. Something said by counterpart Pankretic, however, they are very conditionally satisfied. They could only be satisfied that they don't have a choice. However, all sugar producers warn of the serious consequences that can arise from such a signed agreement. It is a problem that will arise with the negotiation of production quotas. And this is a very big problem, which concerns today's state of production of 240 thousand tonnes is production in Croatia, it is related to the production capacity of sugar beet. And the question, Mr. Minister, that you're going to face tomorrow, which sugars are warning you're going to reduce, who are you going to tell to stop growing tails, and which one or all three of them are you going to close for?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79528	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79529	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, the Croatian sugar industry has not received the basis for the development as you claim, at least I don't see how it could have gotten if we introduced quotas and restrictions and so far we haven't had them. Therefore, it cannot be treated as a development. Nor are those who process sugar but are not particularly satisfied with those who prepare repro material, and these are farmers. They're not satisfied with the height of the incentive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79530	My colleague, Pacek... Whether someone is satisfied or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the incorrect assumption that you are correcting Minister Cobankovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79531	Well, Mr. President, the minister has just claimed to be pleased. I say they're not, that's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79532	So say it, say it isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79533	I say it's incorrect. He claims one thing, I claim the other. Obviously, everyone has their own information. However, what is important in this story we did not take advantage of the opportunity to increase sugar beet production and sugar production and for domestic needs in Croatia, which is exactly the job of the ministry, so I call on the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79534	That's another thing, it's no longer a correction to an incorrect quote. Please, colleagues. Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79535	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not true, Mr. Minister, when you say that this is a good thing to introduce sugar export quotas, and it is incorrect that it is good for our domestic producers because they will probably be able to place more on the domestic market in your opinion. I'm asking you because, Mr. Minister, what will be then in a year or two... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79536	You can't ask him in correcting an incorrect quote. My colleague, please, you can't ask. Well, come on, let's stick to the rules of procedure. Please don't. Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79537	Thank you very much. It's incorrect, Minister, that you claim to have done a good job. It's simply incorrect. Here's the evidence. You take any exporters of any product and limit his exports and then try to convince him that it's very good for him. Be careful, that claim cannot be trusted by a small child, let alone by those who are seriously involved in the production and export of sugar. You're saying that sugar producers will be better off because now that sugar can be placed on the domestic market. Well, they could've placed it outside by now. Now you've limited it to them. And I'm asking you what's going to happen to the consumers, because they're going to pay for that homemade sugar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79538	The questions aren't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79539	Don't shut me up, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79540	You can't ask a question. You're correcting an incorrect quote without asking questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79541	I ask myself why.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79542	Thank you very much. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79543	Since Croatian citizens will pay for domestic sugar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79544	Thank you very much. Why are you fellow gentlemen using the institute to correct an incorrect quote to ask rhetorical questions to the minister or to the government? Don't do that. You have time through the debate to state all your allegations, your views. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative Tomislav Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79545	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Protocol on the signing of an export quota for the Republic of Croatia 180 thousand tonnes and the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this Protocol because unlike a few years ago, when it is well signed that there is no export quota we have now come into a situation that requires a relationship to talk about, to negotiate, to join the reform of the sugar market throughout the European Union and in some way good co-operation and Croatia with the European Union in the application of the SAA, and also to conduct pre-accession negotiations, as well as preparations for Croatia for a common policy of 25 members of the Union. The European common policy is regulated by a number of binding rules that Croatia will have to adopt and ensure their implementation in order to be able to face concrete pressure within the European Union on competitiveness and on the other. A few words on the reform of the European Union's sugar market, which aims to reduce incentives for its sugar producers according to the World Bank's request, because the problem of sugar is not only within the European Union, the problem of sugar is worldwide, and it is precisely the consequence that the ETO requires and conflicts with the European Union, which is highly subsidized by its sugar exports and wants to reduce this production from about 17 or 20 million to 10 million, and in the middle of this announcement that both Ireland and Slovenia and Italy will be closing sugars, and for example, these are our markets and 180 thousand tonnes, it is certainly enough that none of our sugars will close the doors. Here's these two 75 thousand tons and Osijek 90 I don't think a pound of sugar is going to stay unscathed, and right now this year, every kilo that comes out is paid for 40 euros more than last year, or 610 dollars. However, in this reform of sugar or markets in the European Union, in addition to this decrease in production, in addition to the suspension of incentives both per hectare and for exports, which is important what Minister Cobankovic says is important for the Croatian market that there is no subsidisation of exports to our sugar market. The philosophy of the European Union is for sugar to be 385 euros tomorrow, which is some 4 kunas and something and just 4 kunas and something there is room for Croatian sugar on the domestic market. Now it is 610 euros, it will spin around about 400 euros, it is the philosophy of the European Union in 2009, and right there, all three sugar-tail processors must today be ready together with their producers to wait and be able and competitive to produce sugar for 4 and something kuna. This is now a moment, regardless of the consequences of market reforms in the European Union sugar on us directly, but this is a moment to think very seriously about this reform, to bow down, to negotiate, and also to have our producers and processors ready to accept what is here already mentioned that we do not have 5.7 or 6 tonnes of sugar per hectare, but to go to 8 or what we have in the Netherlands 11 etc., etc. The good side of this Agreement is also when it says that we have to negotiate equally, we have not been restricted by hectares, they have not limited our production quota, although the platform for negotiations has indicated that we are not going below it 30 thousand hectares, even moreover, this Agreement does not work, so we leave it, today-to-morrow when we are a member of the European Union, we leave the possibility of 30 or more thousand hectares, so it is kind of positive for the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that everyone must be both manufacturers and processors ready because it is certain that it is easy now with 6 and some euros,... The entire philosophy of working and processing, however, when European prices come, when we come to 4 and some euros, I think that under the current conditions it will be very difficult and therefore needs to be rationalized, increased and yielded, but also... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] what I said from 5.7 to 8, 9, 10 or 11, but also the rationalization and cost of sugars in the processors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is really necessary to increase productivity, a joint performance on our processors' market until 2000, and also after 2000, when this market has brought something better in Croatia, and the retailes have all performed individually on the external market and in some ways the same thing that happens to us in some other processing industries crashes the price of each other. Here this year in this good production, this year 17% is a dysthetic, which is a major dysthetic use, less ballast, etc. For the first time, let's say in the history of the Republic of Croatia that sugarcutters sat together and Virovitica and Osijek and "Sladoran" that they sat down together and went out to market together and it is certain that they will perform the maltenes all that they produce this year, whether it will be 220 or 240 thousand tonnes, but as I just said every kilo until last week that was exported it is neatly and paid. "Sladorana" did not continue these negotiations, however Osijek and Virovitica are very good at exporting it, receiving a good price and not only is "Sladorana" Parish because the state company is satisfied, but, let's say, the private company in Virovitica is satisfied, but through this whole philosophy, through this reform it must simply be possible for all three to perform together independently on ownership. There should be one consortium that does not happen that Virovitica Zupanja in Virovitica, and Osijek drives from Požega, etc., etc. All of this is that few of us look more seriously at this issue together, that is, what is waiting for us in two years and that this Agreement will not be a difficult circumstance for the sugar industry and will not be safely closed for the sake of this Agreement by our sugarcane. Our sugar can be closed if someone shows an interest like Europe and funds to get millions of dollars by moving to another culture of maltenes, and that depends on the movements in the sugar market in Europe. In any case, this is the basis for the definition of quotas for each sugarcane, so far it has been correct for all three sugars and for exports, but also for the processing of cane sugar, I think we have always treated them correctly and certainly let all together with manufacturers and processors to go and to preserve this production that is really very important for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79546	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79547	So if I hadn't heard, I wouldn't have believed it. So, a HDZ colleague, in short, claims it's a good thing there's no export. This is contrary to all possible views of the Croatian government and the promotion of exports. So, respected Mr. Sugars of the Republic of Croatia are already on the European Union market, the European Union has asked us to be on the common market, we have proven ourselves on that market and now they want to cut us there. So it is a completely incorrect claim that the agreement will not be a burden for our sugars. Well, last year we exported 190 thousand tons, this year 220. Normally it'll be difficult. How can you say that? Who's going to decide tomorrow which one of these sugars is going to go down, and who's going to answer to those people for losing their jobs? What kind of correction? [[Aggression: Correction of an incorrect quote.]] The correction is that this won't be difficult for... [[Let's calm down.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79548	All right, all right. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79549	Here's a colleague who's just making an amazing claim. He says, "It's a good thing they didn't limit our hectares on which we produce sugar." And secondly, no one could limit us. This Agreement may only be amended by the bilateral will of the signatories of the Agreement. So they're not our limiters either. You said yes. The government has agreed to a restriction You said yes. [[Intruder: It is no longer a correction.]] No one's restricting us. And that, and that's what you pay for. That obedience that no one asked for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79550	Please, please, colleague Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79551	National interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79552	The MP expressed his view that Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Interests of citizens of this country, interests of peasants]] Thank you very much. [[Agreement: Interests of sugar producers.]] Don't go, I repeat, don't go into anything that isn't a zone of correct allegations. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79553	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I couldn't believe it myself if I hadn't heard it, but I heard it. And a fellow representative as a facilitating circumstance for the introduction of quotas, wanting to prove that Croatia does not lose anything, he said, "There are no hectare restrictions". My men, is that possible? This Government Encourages [[Intruder: Well, that's a representative's point of view.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Incentives, Does the Government Encourage Us [[Intruder: This is the position of the representative.]] to produce as little per hectare as possible. ... [[Aggression: You can't, it's not a correction of an incorrect quote.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79554	It is the position of the representatives, it is the position of the representatives and you cannot correct your position. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. [[And if we want to.]] Here you go. ... You can't, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Pacek. Here you go, Mr. Pacek. ... [[Employment: Employee]] Thank you very much, Mr. President... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. [[You don't understand.]] It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure by you. You have a warning. Please sit down. Mr. Pecek, here you go. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79555	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please, I'm asking you to say something to Bracek not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79556	Okay. Here you go. Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79557	Here I am, nice Mr. Bracek, so be yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79558	Correct an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79559	Yeah. I am correcting an incorrect quote from the predecessors that we should actually prepare for reform. I believe that the reform in this area has already been implemented in order to prepare for the European Union, and clearly there are 30,000 hectares and 180 thousand tonnes of introduction into quotas. The introduction into quotas means that we are not prepared for reform because we do not know what is with domestic production and the other, sugar is one of the few agricultural products that we export. It's more than obvious that we have one extra sugar cane and it's more than obvious that we're going to have over 1,000 farmers doing it. However, after the change of protocol, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, of course, cannot expect to improve better in this area. We can expect further bad moves, so here I am calling on the minister to prevent that from happening. This is about what... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79560	Thank you very much. This is an appeal, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go. So give your colleagues, why are you deliberately, why are you deliberately going against the Rules of Procedure? ... It's a theme like that... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79561	Here, Mr. President, unlike others, I will be brief, and I will correct exactly the incorrect quote of my colleagues when he said that the introduction of sugar export quotas is a way to benefit our domestic sugar producers because by banning them from exporting, we are actually forcing them to sell more cheaply to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79562	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79563	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished MPs and MPs, so I must say at first that I do not believe there is such a spin doctor who can turn failure into success as he is trying here today. It's indefensible, Mr. Secretary, to defend that it's a good quota. I have to be honest. I'm sorry you're sitting here today. Because today and here, we're trying to defend something that's indefensible. If Mr. Cobankovic were sitting here today as foreign minister and defending that it was a political matter that we had to do, we could discuss it. But to discuss that it's good to introduce a quota that we didn't have and it's here to convince us dear gentlemen I really have to be surprised. I'd really like it just as much as the minister did and took part in the negotiations. As the minister most likely gave the order to the minister what he must do in that section, open negotiations and so on. But we had to discuss it here today. Don't be mad. All together to evaluate. If someone here had said openly: Gentlemen, our political interest is such, such and such, and we will not be able to continue negotiations on the European Union without quota. Without a quota, we won't be candidates. We don't have a quota, that's it. But here to tell us that this is good, that everyone's happy, that it's perfect. That we're going to produce a lot more than we've done so far, it's insurmountable. That's just not true. Here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to elaborate a detail on how that's not true. And you can't tell me if you, Mr. Minister, could have eaten as much as you wanted by now, and I'm ordering you to eat once a day. And then we agree to eat twice a day. It's not like you could eat as much as you wanted. And so far, we've had a quota that wasn't limited. Now we've limited it. We have limited it in a way that no one can say that the European Union has ordered us to do so. It clearly states in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement: "It must be an agreement." If there must be an agreement then there must be our agreement. I will tell you from when we signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was the continued pressure of the European Union to change. Continuing. However, we did not respond to him. I'll even say the fiction was the sugar affair that was that there was interference and so on. Only with the aim of pressing to prevent a good job Croatia has done in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And what good job is that? What does this good job mean for the European Union? 0.78% is our participation with these exports on their market. So by 0.78% in the European Union, Croatia, which has managed to have one export product, is pushing us not to have it. I'm asking myself and you all here a question. How many Croatia today has such export products except for this sugar. How many are there? Very little. Why would we now be thinking about what's gonna happen in two, three years? What happens to the reform, etc. No, we should be interested here today in what is the profit of the Croatian state, Croatian factories on this export, on export. 100% Croatian product. Let me tell you how much longer we have in Croatia something that is 100% Croatian and 100 percent export. What we're exporting to me is why we're exporting all the sugar in Croatia. Well, I told you gentlemen, gentlemen, we in Croatia, those from the European Commission, we can eat grass, but we have to make that sugar because it's our only export product and we're competitive with it and why should we give it up. I can't understand. Look, the other thing is, you have a situation where you don't need something. Another would be the situation if we were to say in our balance sheet so positive that we now have one political pressure, so let's say what we're going to do with that sugar, so it doesn't matter at all, so we have hundreds of other good products that we place on the European market, so sugar is just there. But it's just not like that. And I'd just like to ask that we approach it very responsibly here. I wouldn't want in any way for this to turn out to be any kind of politicizing, any sort of thing, but the clear arguments we're dating in that part. You know, I mean, we can talk here now in a way that won't shut down any factories, and we can say that something like that might have happened. That's what Mr. Tomic and I can't claim now, neither of us, but there is a legitimate danger. We have a clear example of Slovenia 90 000 tonnes of quotas. They're closing their sugar industry. She won't have it anymore. It's already the Austrians that bought that quota in Brooksell. What's happening to us in that part? What kind of reform will there be? We can't know that, but what we now know is that we have unlimitedly open exports to make money on that Croatia and that until when we make money, so let's not cut ourselves a branch on which we sit. Well, I mean, we're closing our pipe, we're closing our chances where we can do something. Well, dear MPs, I'm asking myself and you a question, so somebody's got to come over here and explain. It's a political interest for that and that and that's what we're gonna do. But the minister can't explain to us here today that we have to do it because it's good, because sugarcanes are satisfied, etc. Because that's not just true. Because predictions can also be a lot of niggers that now with 20,000, two thousand acres under their sugar tail, we've come to 32,000 today. There's no theoretical way if you're going this way. That's gonna fall. We're going back to maybe under 20,000. Thousands of cooperatives, if that happens, will be out of their jobs. They'll have to go back to some other low-accumulated cultures. We're saying that we have some cultures too in that part, and where we can have it and where we're open to space we don't do it. I must say that in that part of the speech, I am surprised that we have received a certain benefit from the European Union's removal of export subsidies. That's just not true. I'll prove it to you in a very simple way. The ‘Krash’ was one of the largest importers of this subsidized export sugar from the European Union. He imported that cheap sugar, implanted it in his products and could be competitive on the same European market. In order for the matter to be even stronger, he must even build their sugar because of Euro 1 so that he can export to them. We didn't get anything like this except for a certain thing that domestic sugar, one that we would have and we would always give up exporting it because we were making money on the domestic market. But it's not good and it's as clear as day. In that part, dear Minister, we are doing ourselves harm. And now, look, I'm just asking that we no longer go to the lab here, and I'm sorry I'm talking here again about not going to the lab of how good it is, that we're satisfied in that part, but we're going to go to the lab, that someone clearly here I would tell all the MPs, explain to all of us what the political force of the European Union forced us to open negotiations, that we had to bring and accept this quota that you signed, and what force political here in the Croatian Parliament is going to force us to make that protocol and confirm it. I am openly calling on all parliamentary representatives here, calling on them to really put themselves in the role of those who cannot confirm this protocol and thus do a great benefit for the sugar industry in Croatia, a great benefit for Croatian agriculture, and especially for Croatian peasants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79564	Thank you. 12.52. The time has expired to report a ten-minute debate on this point. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79565	I thank Mr. President, and I hope that it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure if it is corrected at all times one and the same assumption that I have already corrected once and now Mr. Pankretic has repeated it. So, Mr. Pancretic, it's not true that someone here said it was a good quota introduction. It's no one. No, no, no. No one said that. No one. But it is clear that in the reform of the European Union's internal market, which is one of the parties in the negotiations is asked by Croatia to participate in these talks and negotiations. We cannot act as someone who will dictate to the European Union and this and that, and at the same time ask for some other concessions and do not participate here. And on the other hand, I apologize, I apologize on the other hand, Mr. Secretary has made it clear that we are importing over three hundred and I don't know eight thousand tons of sugar that's been subsidized at this point. So, by this arrangement these subsidies will no longer be. There are other possibilities opening up. After all, I have no doubt that Mr. Minister and this government are doing the best for Croatia as I have no doubt that what you are doing is purely politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79566	Second. Correction of the esteemed representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79567	Peace be upon you! It's Christmas! Comrade Pancretic, Mr. President. Col. Pancretic's not exactly that sugar is the only export product. In the first nine months of 2006, total trade exports, you said in kunas increased by 14.2% year-on-year. The biggest contribution of export growth in the first nine months came from the production of coke, oil derivatives and nuclear fuel, whose exports increased 22.2%, food and drink 21.3%, other transport assets 11% and the validity of crude oil and natural gas 103.6%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79568	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79569	I'm sorry that the esteemed representative didn't understand what I said because I didn't say it was the only export product because I couldn't make it wrong. 100% exporter, 100% Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79570	This is the correction of the incorrect allegations under the company's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79571	It was a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79572	It's not. When you have to specify.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79573	When I didn't say Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79574	Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79575	They're correcting me for what I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79576	Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79577	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Representatives, the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. Let me once again try to clarify some things that the situation with this problem would be clearer. I respect the respected representative, Mr Pankretić, who has elaborated the position, certain views and made certain findings. And as a representative, you absolutely have the right to see you, to your findings. But, here I am, as well as the Proposer, the motionary representative, the Government's representative, I must make an effort to make sure that the honourable parliamentary representatives have a certain problem that I am in charge of, and here specifically to defend this Protocol, the Law on Amendments and the Supplements to the Stabilisation and Association Protocol. So, accordingly, allow me, normally, that any introduction of quotas means a certain limit and that something that is not good. I've said what generally looking at isn't good. But I'm talking about a certain one all the time, I'm free to say, the integrity of the agreement. What does that mean? Mr Pankretic, I apologize to you, Your Honor, you know very well that it is for the interest of Croatian agriculture, that it is very important for the interest of the Croatian sector of the food industry to fight that there are no export subsidies for a particular product. In particular, from the European Union, where production subsidies are quite high and after more these production subsidies are still on the finished product, an export subsidy is given. And in this context we need to look at this in one wholeness of the agreement package. It's not just one specific. The part adopted a sugar reform, which means from production to sugar transport, changes completely in one other way. I said, no more cheap sugar, no more quota C whose price was somewhere around 270, 280 but usually below 300 how when, below 300 euros a ton. Now it's gone. So Croatia doesn't happen again. ... There isn't. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, there isn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So that Croatia would not happen again if, regardless of the quota C that the export of sugar to Croatia was subsidized by the European Union, we incorporated it into this agreement. And that's what I'm talking about and that's when the representatives of the sugar industry say they're satisfied. Well, of course. It is clear to everyone that the quota, that the quota and 300 thousand tonnes is less than unlimited. I mean, that's absolutely clear. But in the context of the overall agreement, it's very good and important. So once again, our producers are now given the opportunity. Our producers did not export because they wanted to export to the European Union and were overly happy about exports. They exported because they weren't under this sugar regime that was valid until this year, they couldn't be competitive with that cheap sugar. And despite the customs duty that existed for imported sugar, there was still no competition of domestic sugar on the domestic market. And for that. And yet we forget one fact. That the European Commission made a unilateral decision in 2000 and made it possible for the duty-free and duty-free regime of sugar exports to the European Union. So, now Croatia as a serious country, as a country which has in the meantime significantly advanced in the accession process, which is the ultimate goal of the Republic of Croatia's full membership in the European Union. So in 2004, a positive opinion, 2004 candidate status and 2005 opening, the start of negotiations on full membership. These are also very important facts. And Croatia cannot, as a country wishing to be a member of the European Union, respect what is happening in the European Union where we want to be tomorrow. However, Croatian negotiators take care of the maximum interest of our specific manufacturers. And that's what we're fighting for. Because we're negotiating in four circles. You know that the initial conditionally said offer was 80,000 tonnes of duty-free exports to European Union countries. And you know why? for the reason that it was the average sugar exports over the last 3 years. So in 2001, 2002 and 2003, the average was below 80 thousand tons of gentlemen. It's not just a matter of unilateral acceptance or non-acceptance. On the other hand, you are aware and you know this second fact very well that Croatia must negotiate a production quota for sugar. Because he's in five sensitive products. You also know that there are no negotiations on production quotas. The production quotas are statistics of a country's reference period. These are generally known things through which 10 accessions have been made when production quotas have been established and through which two of the current members of 1.1 have been passed. Romania and Bulgaria. So our intensity was and we did this ministry of great effort to raise the level of sugar production, which, unfortunately, was very small by 2004. The average said I'm below 80 thousand tons. Now we're going to increase that average in this period. You heard how long it was last year. This year we'll cross over, so we'll be somewhere at 240 thousand tons, which will now be our new reference period, dear friends. And that will be the basis for determining the production quota. And as part of that, this job with the European Union for that reason, I say it's good. Because we protected our sugar manufacturer's interests. Because we gave them product placement on the domestic market. And there won't be any problem with those sugars that produce and place. And now let me say it. I said we imported 308,000 sugar for the first 10 months. You try to marginalize it and say that this sugar is imported for export purposes. The part of sugar is imported for export purposes and for the part of sugar imported into the products exported, customs duties are not charged and will remain for the following period. There's no customs on the product that's, it's so-called. internal production and where for export purposes imports and implanted into something exported. You mentioned that there was a bit of a mix of cocoa and so on. So 308 tonnes of imported sugar, and exported in the same period of chocolate and other cocoa products, means completely chocolate and everything else and what little you mix with cocoa is exported 163,000 tons. So where are these even if I'm not mistaken, 145 thousand tons? It ended on the domestic market and is not all sugar imported into the Republic of Croatia, is not exported and that is the point. We must ensure that our producers are available and we have provided this agreement and there is the size of this agreement and there is its value and therefore I am free to say that we have done a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79578	Thank you. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79579	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, if a man hadn't listened to this, he wouldn't have believed that we had done a good job, in fact, if no one had limited us. It's the only accurate finding that we've jumped into our own stomach and we're losing a ton of $200 to remember and ask all the manufacturers and those consumables that, that's the only accurate finding. We've exported our sugar from 600 to more, now we need to place it, watch your wisdom, on the domestic market below 4 or 400. It's the only success of your government and you headed by the Resort Ministry. That's the wisdom of this whole thing of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79580	Thank you. ... Peace, please! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79581	Mr. Minister, you say this is a responsible decision and a good job. I won't deny you, you will deny yourself. Here's the argument. Production is 220 thousand tonnes, quota is 180 thousand tonnes. Your statement will be 240 tonnes, your statement of 9 July 2005 will be published in "The Vesnik". "If the quotas for exports of sugar to the EU are less than the exports achieved in that best year, I will refuse to sign such an agreement. In that case, I am ready to offer my resignation as minister." When will you resign?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79582	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. It's the comments again. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79583	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll concentrate on the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79584	Of course, of course!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79585	But if you don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79586	Of course you're going to make a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79587	I'd just like to ask Mr. President if you don't interrupt because I said in advance that I would concentrate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79588	Well then don't say I'll get... Correction. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79589	Thank you, Mr. President. Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79591	Thank you very much. It was said and the minister said the average in production was only beginning in 2004 until then. Did you say that? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79592	You can't communicate like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79593	I can only deny you. At 2001, it starts with 103,000 tons and every year it grows except for 2003 when it was 68 thousand tons, and you know why it was, because it was a drought, and now it has reached 204,000 tons. All this makes us very clear that this way would continue to grow and produce sugar tails, but of course sugar production. This way Mr. Minister won't grow any more, we're limiting certain successful production, we're doing the wrong thing entirely. That we should do it because of any thinking of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is simply not true. You can only explain that, and you started out on your own that it's not a good job to end up being a good job. You know yourself at first, and you were ultimately contradictory.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79594	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79595	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting the wrong quote from Mr. Minister who said that sugar producers weren't happy about the export. Mr. Ministers sugar producers were very happy about exports, and it was also a patriotic obligation for the following reasons, because on that export the factories were making money, the factories were hiring, the sugar companies kept their jobs and hired those who were supposed to be at the employment office for you. These same sugarcanes hired co-operatives who produced and learned sugar beet production technology, and where Mr. Minister's job is, where he earns it, there remains the population and you are actually doing this in a statement against the population policy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to this Parliament, because with your policy very soon we will have empty regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79596	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79597	Thank you very much. It is incorrect, Mr. Minister, for Croatian negotiators to take care of the maximum interest of Croatia, because that is precisely when they would not agree to change only the agreement on the model of the only positive example in Croatia. However, by adopting this law, we will certainly do damage, so I urge you to postpone the application of this law, because some parliaments in some countries in Europe accept the laws after a year, two, three when they are discussed in the Parliament. Finally, we too have this example in the House that we have not discussed the law on zero/zero promo for two years, so I call on you to accept the law on the same principle only when we enter the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79598	Is it good that it belongs somewhere else in this debate this call to discuss this law being conducted or passed, voted sometime later. ... Well, we know, so let's not get into technology now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Pero Kovačević's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79599	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from Mr. Secretary. First he said it was a good job. It is a good job for the European Union, but bad for the producers of sugar in Croatia because they are given a quota and 200 dollars are lost per tonne. Then says the minister further, our interests are protected. How they're protected when the quota is cut and they lose $200 a ton. Well, I don't know what kind of protection that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79600	Dear Representative, Vice President of the House Mato Arlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79601	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, you said these were...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79602	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79603	... the protected interests of sugar producers and, of course, sugar beet manufacturers. Let me remind you that the average production of sugar tail per hectare in Croatia is about 50 tonnes. And this is when Virovitica is taken about 47, 48 tonnes per hectare, Parish and Osijek per 50, 52 tonnes per hectare that if you take loss on the sugar beet, it's about 12.9% and if you take 180 thousand tons of sugar then it takes about 400 thousand tons of tail to produce those 180 thousand tons of sugar or 28 thousand acres of sugar each year. And you started negotiations, like a negotiation platform in 30,000 acres or actually that quota you repeated. That's number one. Number two, there's about 2,000 to two and a half thousand people working on agricultural holdings. About a thousand and 500 to 2,000 workers, plus merchants, plus carriers. You have, in fact, denied the sources of revenue valid somewhere around 10 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79604	At 14:30 at the Josipa Jelačić Hall, a session of the Committee on Legislatives. At 14:30. HNS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Krutov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79605	Mr. President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. If we know that in Croatia this year will be a record of 230 to 240 thousand tonnes of sugar to be produced and if we know that 150 thousand tonnes to 160 thousand tonnes of consumption is domestic sugar and import sugar in Croatia. With that sugar, sugar is imported. If we know that every 4 years the fertilizing sugar beet is normal even for 5 years, maybe this agreement isn't as black as it looks. However, you will agree, Mr Minister, that with the 7,000 tonnes we have so far had of EU customs-free exports to Croatia, raising to 80,000 tonnes, the Croatian budget is losing about 5 million euros. That's for sure and that's how it's gonna be and that's the truth. That's what it says in this agreement. I'll read it to you. However, by implementing the protocol in practice, it means that from 1 January 2007, a favourable import into the Republic of Croatia sugar from the countries of the European Union of 80,000 tonnes will be allowed. Okay, only the second year will be 100% free of customs, but that's it, that's the story. Furthermore, we cannot agree that until now an agreement that had no limitations, had no quota was bad. Now we see that he was very good. If we remember from the previous opposition when the government made him, the last government was making noises that he was bad, that he was traitorous, etc. Now we meet and say that we are satisfied with 180 thousand tonnes of import quota. I argue that this is not 180 thousand tonnes, that by exporting to the European Union 80 thousand tonnes of the Republic of Croatia, the European Union has the right to introduce 80 thousand tonnes back into Croatia. So, I don't think that's a real quota. That this quota is smaller. Whether it will come to that, sugar cans reportedly are satisfied, I have personally even called some executives, they say they are satisfied. But what happens in a year? Okay, Sugar County is owned by the state. Mr. Minister, you know they'd get fired right away if they weren't happy. Therefore, they must be content. But we will not judge in advance, only the fact that Croatia is in a more unfavourable position with this agreement than it was. I don't think this agreement was made in quality, that it should have been more of an interest, maybe more of a firmer one, maybe some of the conditions were others, but that's what this Parliament and this people should be told and confessed to. But to claim that a bad agreement is a good agreement is not an agreement I can accept. And therefore I will be very brief, the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian People's Party Club will not support this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79606	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79607	Well, just one correction. A colleague said it should have been harder. This Protocol should not have been more difficult than it should have been in Article 4 because it should have been said not to apply from 1 January 2007, but, for example, from 1 January 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79608	Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79609	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. ... Yeah, a little bit. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am really interested in how these young people react to the gallery, or how our public reacts. Because the situation in Parliament is really schizoid. One claims it's a great deal, the other claims he's nothing but tragic. One claims that manufacturers are satisfied while others claim that at least one of these sugars will have to be eliminated. It seems to me that this situation is precisely because a little bit of what's done is made of an old logical mistake, that the generations are actually mixed. One has a static approach, one has a dynamic approach. Some would retain the situation from the beginning of 2000 and think that the situation and status quo can be maintained, some others are again talking about that some processes are happening in the European Union and that there must be some answers to these processes. It seems to me that actually one of these schizoid situations is going to happen every time political and economic interests are really mixed up. That's what someone was talking about here today. Political interests actually always stem from our position as candidate negotiators. They say negotiating is always the art of being possible. Now there's a big question, a big question is whether or not we've defined ours as much as possible. I've always actually had an impression in all of our negotiations in the last 15, 16 years that have been done, they've always been negotiations from a more inferior position. Positions, always something, you expected a confession, and then you expected to become a candidate, to join the European Union. Well then you see that this process of entering the European Union is not so easy and that it is actually said not only we are going but also to play and there are some other players and some rules of the game that you do not prescribe yourself and it is... And that solves the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then certainly when you include this economic aspect, that sometimes the economic aspect is very difficult, i.e. that you just run it as well as you do I don't know the political aspect, or someone will have to pay for something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it really going to be that one sugarcane in Croatia will have to be eliminated, i.e. without asking at all whether these three sugars are optimal or perhaps there is a possibility that there are more sugars in Croatia, but these are some things that have been inherited, some things that have their long past and certainly are really in this particular situation, in such situations should be wise and skillful enough and that it is not just as easy and easy to negotiate. I think we're actually victims of a certain speed. It is not every time the speed of virtues, and it just seems to me that it comes from this insufficiently clear definition of what is actually possible and what are our projections if we could become part of this European Union. We in Osijek have a situation that people up there wanted to open an office that would allow them to open a story about these pre-accession funds, and that they didn't actually solve a fundamental question for people who would work on them, which rules would be applied to them, because Croatia is not a member of the European Union and these people could not work, or they could not work in Brussels at any other way than through the not-knowing Croatian banks and have the status of precisely conscious of their stay on a tourist stay, as long as the visa takes so much work. It's these basic things that we actually very rarely and easily skip anyway. That's why I'd say on behalf of the club we can take this to the knowledge of this thing. Whether politics can, or the Croatian Parliament as the most legislative body, open up that space so that some things can be expanded and that we really see whether this is ideal or not ideal, whether these whole or this structure that Mr. Minister was talking about are really convincing enough or some of our particular views, interests are stronger and this is the thing that I have not been convinced of so far, I am not, I remain confused as I believe and a good part of this Croatian public. And for the sake of saying just for these reasons, I would not want that in a new modern, democratic Croatia in fact... That story there from the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia when that son of Nikola Pasic, the one Rade, was arrested in one of those, from malversions, which was known as a sugar affair, so when the answer was yes, what does that child know is sweet? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, in 2006, we should know what sugar means to us and really see if we can reach a consensus in this House to bring these economic and political interests into line or simply because of political interests, we will sometimes pay a price for which it is unclear how much it is, or whether we have to pay that price at all. I would like to believe that we do not have to pay the economic price every time because of certain political speed and urgency regarding this very strategy in the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79610	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79611	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Representative. I argue that in this assembly it is not a schizoid situation, it is an incorrect finding and I assure my colleague that because of the concerns we have, we react to phenomena that happen beyond the knowledge of the people, with the will of obviously some policy and by jeopardising the national and economic interests of farmers of those who are engaged in this activity, and therefore perhaps a slightly worse reaction to much more security whether they know more information, that there is a stronger explanation, but that is what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79612	Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79613	So I, Mr. President, also correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Kramaric that in this assembly there is a schizoid situation, although it is a sweet and bitter situation, and the schizoid situation is in Osijek's HSLS after the debate in the elections, so he transferred it to a higher level.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79614	This is a little too much already. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79615	I would also correct the incorrect assumption that the situation in this House is schizoidal from another perspective because the last days we have witnessed that people are looking for themselves in an alibi in an atmosphere that exists either in a home or in an audience, so one of our senior officials said the other day that he said he was crazy because he was in front of the angry people. So we can't let the situation where the public's surrender is an alibi for our own behavior be legalized because if we find ourselves among the bloated Chetniks, we won't become Chetniks, because if we find ourselves in front of horny fishermen we won't become fishermen and that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79616	Dear Representative Željko Kurtov, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79617	I wanted Mr. President to correct Kramaric that we are very aware that it is not a schizoid situation in the assembly, that we are aware that the minister cannot interrupt negotiations with the European Union that we understand the situation, but that this law is done well is not and we cannot support it, so the situation in the assembly can be called whatever it is he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79618	I guess that's what Mr Pancretic is gonna let someone else do. Minister Cobankovic, please take a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79619	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. For this very reason, I am trying not to irritate anyone but to show you more clearly what it is and why it is going into this and why it is conditional, which is why it is not bad for the Republic of Croatia, because the Republic of Croatia has established a quota, but in return it has received something very important and on the other hand I am very glad that finally the representative of Kurt made it clear and I believe that this is a normal way of communicating that, on some issues being discussed in the Assembly, it is very important to ask those who do so and who do so. Because, you know, I'm like a minister, I have to be truly happy and content, much happier and more satisfied that this proposal agrees with those directly concerned. So, the representatives of the Croatian sugar industry with which Mr. Kurt was so shyly said it little, it would probably be a little different to say that they are not satisfied. But I started talking, I'd be happy, I'm far happier to get with it, what we did and did agrees with those who live out of it. I would be unhappy to have everyone in this House agreeing with something I did and those to whom it concerns that they are unhappy and dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79620	Are we going to have three corrections of incorrect allegations? Just a moment, please, don't correct the question of happiness and misfortune. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankeretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79621	Well, I mean, it's hard to take away the impression that happiness, pleasure, and...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79622	You can't fix happiness. Whoever's happy is, who isn't, isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79623	Can I fix it? This was...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79625	Look! I mean, really, I have to say I'm surprised when Mr. Minister incorrectly repeats that it's good and that it's good for the Croatian state. When he knows himself it's not good in the agricultural production segment. And to assure us that sugarcane producers are satisfied is not true. Perhaps Mr. Kurtov called it your assistant who is now the director or assistant director in County, so he answered that question. But it's objective that there is no pleasure, let it aside. As far as agriculture is concerned, it's not good, and that's what you said. And as for political reasons, there should be a foreign minister who needs to be explained to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79626	Okay. It's now advice that doesn't go into correction. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79627	First of all, I'm correcting that sugar producers and sugar tails are satisfied with this. I talked to sugar producers, sugar beets producers. They are not satisfied with this and some parts of the management structures in the administrations of sugar factories that depend on the government because the government is the majority owner, that's something else. They thus buy their peace and their chair and chair, and it is not on our cheeks, in fact, all of the aspects of our relationship. And secondly, you know the reasons why you say that these negotiations have occurred cannot be applied once when it comes to opening sugar quota negotiations, and secondly, negotiations cannot be opened when it comes to... This is not the case, Mr Minister, and thus the policy and protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia is not guided by anyone or towards the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79628	And John Kolar, a respected representative, a correction of an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79629	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, if it's a good job, I think it's really irresponsible, to say the least, because they're neither satisfied nor happy, and we can see it on the ground from the fear of the producers whose existence depends on them because these producers are so well-organized and so fat in charge, Mr. Minister, that they're terrified of this decision of yours. Go to the villages, go to the organizers, and talk to them. And your executive structure has to be a base because it's gone tomorrow. Unfortunately, that's the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79630	I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours, individual debate, ten MPs. First respected representative, Joseph Leco. We continue the session and the debate. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79632	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues! ... And Mr. Minister too, I said Assistant Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This law should be confirmed by the Protocol amending and supplementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, on the tariff quotas for sugar and sugar products originating in Croatia or in the Community. It should be said immediately that sugar is the most significant agricultural and food product when it comes to the export of these products from the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the negotiating platform by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposal of the Resolute Ministry set out the fundamental principles for the conduct of negotiations with the European Commission on possible changes to the existing regime, pardon, exports of sugar from the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The negotiating platform lays down two basic principles for the conduct of negotiations. The amount of the tariff quota which would reflect at least the level of possible sugar production based on the production of sugar beet on the surface of 30 thousand hectares and the integration into the Stabilisation and Association Agreement or through another binding legal framework of the appropriate form of compensation to the Croatian side as countering the permanent restriction of exports of the most significant agricultural and food product to obtain membership in the European Union. Negotiations starting in October 2005 ended in March 2006. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a report on negotiations conducted with the European Commission with a view to concluding a protocol that was finally signed on 28 November this year. The Protocol amends and complements the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities in the part of the trade arrangements for sugar and sugar products originating in Croatia or the Community and on customs quotas for sugar and sugar products. A legal basis is created for the adoption of implementing rules for the distribution of export quotas to be met and agreed by sugar producers. The preferential sugar trade regime will apply from 1 January 2007 in a way that grants Croatia a duty-free annual quota for sugar and similar products of 180 thousand tonnes. The European Union shall waive export subsidies to sugar and similar products on export to the Republic of Croatia. Croatia approves an additional quota for exports of sugar from the European Union of 80,000 tonnes but with a gradual reduction in customs duties. And this is conditioned only when the Republic of Croatia exports those first 80,000 tonnes. The Protocol also means that from 1 January 2007, more favourable imports into the Republic of Croatia from the countries of the European Union of 80 thousand tonnes will be allowed. The current duty-free quota is 6 thousand 800 and something and increases by 73,000 and something that makes up the total of 80,000 tonnes already mentioned. These are the two sides of this Protocol, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the one part of the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States, of the other part, on the tariff quotas for sugar and sugar products originating in the Republic of Croatia or in the Community. And now this and such agreement are being reached and these negotiations want to be assessed as harmful, poor and even some of the services of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The fact is that the European Union is a good married man and that we want this marriage out of interest. However, the other side also has some conditions and requires a correct relationship and we cannot afford to continue to flaunt, and to tamble, and to take money from pre-accession funds, and on the other hand, nothing to give in expecting a correct marriage. I think that's the problem the predecessors mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79633	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79634	Mr. President, my interest in this topic is not so much about sugar, because I also have an increased amount of sugar in my blood, so I'm not too interested in sweet products. In fact, this is about a precedent, and I will treat this amendment to the agreement as one negotiating precedent, and I will try to think about the implications of that precedent. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement had many discriminatory elements, provisions when it comes to the real estate market, the rights of foreigners to acquire the right to purchase real estate in Croatia without restrictions on a certain deadline. He had other discriminatory provisions, some of them I spoke about within the labour market where he forces Croatia and other potential signatories of related contracts or agreements to open labour markets without practically any restrictions and if those provisions are linked to the adopted Law on Nosetriification will see that these negative implications will be numerous. However, our consent to change one of the few provisions of this agreement that has contributed to Croatia means one new test for our country. Traditionally, there is one danger of not seeing trees from the forest and, in Croatian case, by focusing on details or on trees, there is no view of the forest. The debate on this agreement should be put in the context of the new situation that has arisen since 1.1 next year when the two countries Romania and Bulgaria become full members of the European Union. The act has an epochal meaning for our country's geopolitical and negotiating status. On that day Croatia will definitely be surrounded by a European corridor. It will be located in an area called a black hole in the earlier geystrategics of the European Union and today it is called a politically acceptable concept of the region. The region means it long-term condemns Croatia to hope to be accepted as a full member of the European Union before other countries formed and formed in the region's space, but unfortunately this will not happen. The European Union's negotiating strategy towards Croatia is based on a very serious analysis of the psychopaths of our main negotiator of the Government of Croatia, the experts there are very competent experts on personality theories, historians of historical art and political analysts made a very serious profile of our Prime Minister and they have clearly concluded that in situations where under pressure it is inclined to make concessions that are not always necessary. And if you look at the last two years, the number of these concessions is increasing from day to day. First there was Gotovina, so there was a problem of opening the real estate market for the neighbouring countries, first of all Italy, I saw a meeting of the President of the Republic and Prime Minister with Roman Prodi on one day on Croatian television, and I immediately told the woman tomorrow that Hido Biscevic would probably fly to Rome and regardless of the principle of reciprocity and inferior purchasing power of Croatian people we opened the real estate market. And now we're going back to the question of fish, salt and sugar. In this case it means controlling the sugar market at the expense of Croatia and in this situation that I do not owe you and take up time I think you should stop for a moment, close yourself in some conclave, I am not in a position to have any power to decide in this society, but simply to condemn five, six smart people in Croatia for one six hours to a little thought. I know when you are in high positions you do not have time to think, you have to make decisions daily, but in this situation it is necessary to see how we will proceed, because if we move forward with the logic of constant concessions we will face the situation that the European Union will constantly have new and new requirements and we will always have the impression that we are here somewhere, that it will be 2008, 2009, 2014. Unfortunately, the situation will be such that the area of the region and the policy of the European Union towards the regions will in fact be in some way enabling Croatia to develop as the most stable, most stable and most developed country in the region, but giving much greater concessions to other parts of the region. And in a few things, that concludes the very concepts. In Western civilization, everything starts with words and words having a sort of active meaning. The moment Croatia tried itself narcissistically, i.e. metaphorically declaring itself a Balkan locomotive, leader of the Balkans, a model of the Balkans, found itself in a situation where Western geostrategics logically concluded what would you do if you let a locomotive wander into Europe on its own? What if you let the leader of space come alone into the European Union? What if you do it with a role model? These others will be beheaded. Therefore, we ourselves are doing at the expense of our own damage. In this regard, a little modesty at the level of this self-deception on the one hand, and on the other hand, that a little more caution and cunning in the negotiation process, I expressed a constant skepticism in the appointment of the negotiating team in relation to the overrule of the main and other negotiators. I would personally like to negotiate on behalf of Croatia Miomir Zuzul, for example, is tall, he is impertinent and can negotiate, but as far as I can see, there is no such possibility of being involved. All in all, Mr. Minister, I am pleased that you are able to find some good news in this precedent, no matter how much sugar will be sold and how much sugar is sold because what is important here is the precedent because the precedent can mean negative automation, of course you should use the collapse of this agreement to possibly negotiate something on the long term and positively for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79635	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What is the meaning of this Protocol now offered by the Government to the Parliament for ratification? It means introducing quotas for Croatian sugar, for domestic agricultural product. Was there a quota in the other agreement? It's not. Croatia could export as much as it produced. And now how does this Protocol come to pass? How come odds are introduced all of a sudden? It is written in the light of the European Commission's initiative. That makes sense. Of course. The European Commission, the countries of the European Union, are protecting their interests. So they will not protect Croatian interests, Croatian interests should be protected by the Croatian government. I say I should, because it doesn't protect you. What does the Croatian Government do when the European Commission says we should negotiate sugar quotas? The Croatian government says: "Yes, it can. Let's go, let's negotiate." She could say there was nothing to negotiate, it was negotiated, it was negotiated when the basic Stabilisation and Association Agreement was adopted, it was negotiated by the former government and she found that there were no quotas, hence the gentlemen of Europe signed it, you accepted it when you signed the agreement with the former government and we have nothing further to negotiate. Let's negotiate what we have to negotiate, but why negotiate something we don't have to? However, the Croatian government does not know why negotiations are starting and Minister Cobankovic is signing the protocol and is now asking the Croatian Parliament to confirm this, ratification of such a protocol. Negotiating gentlemen from the government does not mean accepting what is required. First of all, you shouldn't have negotiated at all, but since you've already engaged in this activity that you're obviously not up to, then negotiating doesn't mean accepting. The European Commission could ask for anything, you would obviously and accept it because you can't explain it too much here, you haven't given us any argument here why it's good to change the basic agreement? What makes it good to accept this Protocol? What good will it do the Croatian peasants? What good will it do the sugars? What good will it do the citizens of this country to pay for it in stores more expensive than cheap import sugar after this ratification? You government gentlemen are buying the European Union's favor. But what are you paying her for? You pay for it with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. You pay it to national interests, and that's a little overpriced. I can understand that you need this favor in the general negotiation process. But she can't pay so much. And it's not a currency. National interests are not a currency with which such affection should and may be paid. This is getting a little bit amazing because when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was voted on, HDZ came out of the Council. He wouldn't support it. And now, he's changing it and it's spoiling it. That one wasn't good enough for them, and this one, this one, it's bad for Croatian citizens, it's good for them. Well, since you didn't want to accept it, leave him alone. Don't deal with him at all. You said you didn't feel good once. Let him go. Let him be as bad as he is. Just please don't take it in your hands, because when you take it in your hands, look what you do. On 9 July 2005, Minister Cobankovic said, "If the quotas for the export of sugar to the European Union are less than the exports achieved in that year, I will refuse to sign such an agreement." In that case, I am willing to offer my resignation as minister. I'm asking Minister Cobankovic who left the hall. ... I don't know if he knew if I was gonna ask him or not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask him in front of the Croatian public. Does he mean to fulfill his word? Will he resign because he signed an agreement that said he wouldn't sign it if he did, and if someone made him sign it, and apparently it was that he would resign? This doesn't surprise me. This doesn't surprise me. I'm used to this government making a lot of promises so it doesn't come true. But don't think that Croatian citizens are forgetting this. This, well, this has been made public. It was published in a regimeal voice, a newspaper like Vesnik. So do you think everyone is so short-minded that they don't know what the minister said a year ago? Now I ask him if he'll show a grain of responsibility? ... Will he show a grain of responsibility and resign? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's amazing that the minister here now claims this is good. That this protocol is good. Watch out, we're exporting 220 thousand tons. We can do 240 thousand tons. That's what the minister says. And we accept a limit to 180 thousand tons. So what's good about it? Well, God forbid we can and we could have made 500 thousand tons if we could produce. Well, look, some countries have oil, and then they're living off the export of that oil. We have this Pannonian plain, agricultural land rich. We can produce. And we could produce and we could still produce raw materials for sugar. We have sugars to produce that sugar. We also had a market where we can take that sugar out, and now the government is cutting us off. And it also claims that it is very good for Croatia and that it is very good for farmers which they will no longer be able to export. So let you explain to any Arab country that it would be very good for them if, for example, they were introduced into oil exports so that they could not export oil. Well, I'd like to ask Minister Cobankovic here to try and explain it to some Arab sheik. Well, let me see, you'd get into some kind of humorous show. They'd make fun of him. Well, listen, this certainly can't be good. This is just a question of why does the government still do something bad? What are the reasons now? Secrets. Is that what it is? Offered some kind of money. I don't know. Because working so hard on the harm of your own people without any need for anyone to ask you anything, it's completely incomprehensible. A HDZ representative says: "It is a good thing they didn't limit our hectares." So God’s people do well to say that they have not banned us from any agricultural production at all. That's HDZ logic. "We did well," he says, "and imagine that the hectares have limited us as well." It's a state-of-the-art HDZ policy. That's how you run the country. So if God’s people do so, stop leading as soon as possible, for they will cause damage to Bible proportions. You're still in power for a year. So you know what can be done in a year if you continue like this? I don't know, it seems to me that this sugar and this protocol are going to make it better. It will be sweetened, but above all by the European Union, by the countries of the European Union. But bitter will be the life of Croatian peasants. Gorak will become the life of sugar-sugar cooperatives because they will lose their product. This is gentlemen dear, this is the most ferocious example of irresponsible behavior and betrayal of national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79637	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79638	I wrote something like, "We had a market, it can be done, we exported, will sugar production be banned?" and so on and so on. I have no idea if I'm defending the government, but I don't know if my colleague Stazic meant the time when the party-mural coalition ruled Croatia. When terrible, terrible damage and crime were done both to the Croatian state, to the Croatian economy, sugars and especially to Croatian peasants when they exported from Croatia Cuban cane sugar under the Croatian tail sugar company. So, fellow Trainer, obviously you're using a termology that you don't know, and you've gotten into something that you know very badly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79639	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79640	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I cannot vote in favour of this agreement, i.e. for this Protocol and this law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement, neither as a representative nor as a member of the Party, nor as a member of the area where I grew up, born and where I come from or where I come from. Namely, respected colleagues and colleagues, this law on amendments to the protocol and the amendments to the agreement is harmful to the Republic of Croatia, it is harmful to the sugar beet manufacturer, it is harmful to sugar beet processors and sugar producers. I must say that it is actually incomprehensible to me how it is possible to defend at all that this agreement is changing and supplementing its order if the negotiations on the amendment and supplement of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the introduction of quotas are adopted, because no matter how many quotas would then be accepted, they will surely be as quotas and will certainly be a more unfavourable situation for the Republic of Croatia than what the former government has provided, and where they have actually fully freed the export of sugar without customs restrictions, or quotas. In this respect, it has practically created assumptions for the export of sugar of around 100m euros. The second thing I would like to point out was not necessarily to accept the European Commission's initiative to open negotiations on this issue, because we had a signed agreement here and there was no new act or act that would impose amendments and additions to the existing agreement other than the European Commission's wish to ensure for its members, especially the Baltic countries a more favourable position on the European Union market than the candidate countries and Southeast Europe. Thirdly, when the government adopted the opening of negotiations on its own initiative, it actually accepted in advance that it would introduce quotas, even if the agreed quotas were higher than the production opportunities of our sugars, and compared to that already achieved, it is unfavourable. The fourth thing I would like to say is that the adoption of a 180 000-ton quota per year that at first glance can match our sugars is actually unfavourable if you exclude a dynamic approach, especially if you exclude a dynamic approach. From a static point of view, it may in some ways satisfy needs in the first stage. But if a dynamic approach is taken then it should be reminded that, by the productivity of work, by the heated surfaces and by the hectare of sugar tails, about the dysthetic that is averaged with us. Someone said 17. No, 15.95% of our diet was this year or about 16 to round up. Yeah, yeah, according to official records. Then, compared to these quotas, and compared to these normative Croatia, there is certainly a huge space to further increase the surfaces of heated tails, to raise productivity of work, to raise the dysestia and to raise yields per hectare. Because the yields per hectare are about 50 tonnes per hectare, and in Europe over 60, the average yields in the European Union are over 60 tonnes. In such a situation, it is quite clear that, in fact, if the Republic of Croatia accepts such an agreement and such a static approach does not have the opportunity to grow and develop in relation to the developed branches, and it should be said that it is a branch that has sophisticated sugar processing and that the production is then related to further production of chemical, conditor industry, then alcohol industry, etc. etc. It is therefore a very important activity that can and is the bearer of the growth and development of the agricultural and food system in the area of mainly eastern Slavonia, western Srijem and Baranja. In this respect, it is very important to keep in mind that it is areas lagging behind development and should not put out the possibilities and limit development opportunities, but rather create assumptions that growth and development is in this regard as much as possible. Fifth. It is totally unacceptable, and it is also explicit to show only the reasons for this agreement to argue that this amendment and the addition of the agreement would satisfy our needs and that it would be a good job for the Republic of Croatia because quotas were first introduced and there were none. Secondly, at the same time, imports into the Republic of Croatia or exports to the European Union to the Republic of Croatia are made possible and increased by more than 12 times from 6840 tonnes to 80 000 tonnes of sugar. Third. The European Union still stimulates every ton of produced sugar with 140 euros related to productivity and competition in the world, etc. Which, of course, we can't even realize. And the fourth thing that is very important in such a situation is that by negotiating a reduction in customs duties, we will practically come into the situation in 2009 that we will lose almost a few million euros a year only on customs, non-payment, or the benefits we give to foreigners. So everything is clear and accurate that this part cannot be accepted in such a situation. Fifth. From sugar production, directly and indirectly, in the Republic of Croatia when you take the total number of sugar workers, when you take the number of employees in family and agricultural holdings with average hectares that are sown somewhere around 29 000 and when you take those who are engaged in the transport of sugar tails, the transport of sugar, the merchants who are engaged in buying and selling sugar. Then, the users of sugar in the chemical and condition industry then several tens of thousands of inhabitants live and cannot be so irresponsiblely approached by an activity that is developmental, which carries sophisticated production and can adopt new technologies, which has a space by technology, by industrial, on any basis that it continues to develop and should be further stimulated and instead, to do and achieve such things, we are in an impossible position to actually limit what we had more favourably for ourselves and to bring ourselves into an unfavourable position. Sixth. I have to say that it's a bit tragic for me to say that it would plant the masochistic position of our minister who, on the one hand, has a warrant to carry something out, so they put pressure on him and defend something that's as good as it is, and it's actually not good. That's what we... It is in itself a matter of limitations and, at the same time, the will of the Minister himself to accept it mainly if there is and takes care of where it comes from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He comes, Mr. Minister, you come from the agricultural area, you come from Slavonia, and you have to have a chance tomorrow to look at the face of the farmer and the sugar worker who produces and produces this sugar and people who live off that bread. Do not forget that you come from an area of the county where more than 30% are unemployed and in which this branch should bear growth and development, which should expand further production, which should open new investment cycles, as it has already opened. And don't forget that in 2000, thanks to the previous HDZ government, this activity was almost destroyed in the Republic of Croatia, brought to a break. In barely 3 years, the former coalition government has come out and is beginning to do business again positively, to open new jobs, to finance new plants and activities, as has been done by the factory, the malts in the County, and among other things by expanding the wide drive for the production of spirit and alcohol, and by opening up opportunities for new jobs, new jobs, and now you are cutting off the basis on which they rest. That's not good. This is harmful to the Republic of Croatia. And whoever has responsibilities won't vote for this bill. And one more thing. I would like to remind the Honorable President of the Parliament that this law, in its own time, voted on the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Political System and the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, by a decision of the Parliament, on the part of the majority of all MPs. But at the request of the HSP and HKDU club that a two-thirds majority is actually sought because of possible transfers of powers, financial powers to the international alliance. This law must therefore be adopted in a manner and procedure that is self-government, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been voted upon. That means half the MPs. Have you thought about it, Mr. Minister, when you are knowingly waiting for the end of the year to propose this law in the parliamentary procedure, will you be able to vote in this House in any way, regardless of party membership? Whoever has any sense of national responsibility for the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, for the interests of a small man, workers and peasants in this country cannot raise hands for this law because it would harm these interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79641	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79642	So what counterpart Arlovic was saying to the HSP club also referred the request of the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure to be made manifest because we continue to hold this claim as Mr Arlovic spoke. It means that we, too, are essentially changing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with this part. And so we ask for an indication when it comes before the vote, this is what we have today sent to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure that it must have 77 to vote on this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79643	Replica response, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79644	Dear counterpart Kovacevic, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was adopted, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Legislative Committee adopted an opinion that, I quote: "The Croatian Parliament is most of the votes for 80 for 4 against...", which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament, so "The Croatian Parliament is a majority vote of 80 for, 4 against the conclusion that, which was proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Legislative Committee, which decided that these laws would be passed by a semi-half majority of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament.". This is a quote of the record from that session of the Parliament. And I remind you that the laws can be changed and complemented in the way and by the procedure as they were adopted in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why I warned the president to take care of the number of votes needed when adopting this amendment and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79645	And how was he, with which most of it was brought?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79646	Most of all the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79647	77? Or that's when it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79648	It was 76, one less.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79649	76, one less, right. Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79650	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79651	And there was more? Minister of Agriculture Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79652	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. I didn't think I'd answer again, but I still have to try another time to explain certain things. I fully say I would understand that you as agents must try to do your job responsibly. And you're probably doing it out of conviction. But I, as a proposing representative of the proposer, am also obliged to introduce you to the complete situation. That's why I apologize for going out on many occasions today. It's not a bad idea, it's just a good intention to get you better informed about the whole situation. Mr. Arlovic, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament has made conditionally stated certain arguments. But I also have to warn you of a few very important things when this issue is being debated. First of all, the fact that sugar does not belong to a group of ordinary products. Sugar belongs to a group of sensitive products for which the production quota is established by entering the European Union. Next, in 2004, a reform was launched, a complete reform of the European Union's sugar sector, creating a completely new and different relationship in sugar production and transport. Third, Croatia as a country that has advanced in integration processes compared to the previous period, as until 2004. Croatia only had a request for membership in the European Union, but did not have a step towards progress in integration processes. So from getting a positive opinion, from gaining candidate status and starting negotiations, Croatia has puts Croatia in a much different situation than before 2004. Therefore, as a responsible and serious country, Croatia cannot strive to go to certain associations and express its wish and wish to go to these associations, and not accept certain rules of play that apply to those associations. Then, I must also point you to something that he spoke of and a distinguished representative of the Lonchars. These are also relevant facts that we have had an extremely difficult struggle as what the SSP was regulated not to bring about a suspension of this. Because unfortunately, in a certain context, the Croatian side abused and did something that it should not have done. And that we didn't fight hard, both for proof and persuasion and so on. Croatia could happen to suspend certain articles or certain concessions here, despite the agreement signed. And there was an extremely difficult and hard struggle to prove that it was not done not in the desire to abuse itself but that there were certain errors, errors, etc. It's also a significant fact. If we have asked that the European Commission in this context has an understanding for Croatia, for something it did not have to do, and Mr Arlovic, you are, or rather, sorry, I will not mention it, but your distinguished colleague from your ranks was then the chairman of the supervisory board in the company that did this and which could have led to a practical ban on exporting sugar to European Union countries because certain rules of the game were violated and we did something we shouldn't have done. And you know all of this needs to be looked at in one context. And yet again, the quota isn't just a question of quota. It is very important for us in the ministry and in the government that we fight for certain sensitive products and try not to apply export subsidies because applying certain products with export subsidies puts our producers in a position not to be competitive in these sectors. And in this context, we have then incorporated into the agreement the inability to grant export subsidies by the European Union for sugar exports, we are practically with all this reform that happens with the disappearance of the quota C, the disappearance of cheap sugar, we are practically creating an assumption that we can place Croatian sugar to Croatian consumers. We're talking about an 80,000-ton quota for imports. It's about sugar that's not going to be in quota C is it gone, but it's going to be at real prices. And our consent to a certain reduction, because there is no zero speech, zero is never going to come to zero in one year but the maximum that will come to 50% is something that is absolutely consistent with representatives of the Croatian sugar industry that know exactly what it means. I won't talk about it here, that's what they can talk about. So we weren't in a simple, easy situation. We've been conducting responsible negotiations. I can accept, I'm who I am, unfortunately more can be said to be a lower man, but I'm very responsible, and I'm very interested in protecting national interests and it's a segment, and I accept the reality that I'm something shorter and fatter, but I don't accept and I won't accept anyone's thesis that in my job I don't protect the most national interests. And in this business, I protected them maximumly, and the result is that sugar producers are what we did and what we negotiated is extremely satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79653	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79654	I'm supposed to be making a lot of amends, but I'm only gonna fix a few. First, that sugar is a sensitive product and that the production quotas are being introduced, of course, but I want to remind you that it must not happen to the damage of the Republic of Croatia as it happens, because the European Union, among other things, after reaching an agreement and opening negotiations with us, decided to build a new sugar factory in the area that will be competitive with our sugars in Brcko district, you know that. Secondly, I would like to remind you, the chairman of the Supervisory Board was a company holding IPK, not a sugar company in Osijek, a fellow Pancic, who made this mistake provided that you know that from our ranks, our customs office came up with a European application and that, in the end, Europe found that there was no such mistake that the sugar factory in Osijek should be punished and that, in practice, there is a completely different solution to the percentage of yellow sugar that could have been exported in relation to this part. And the last part. You know you say that you are, that we have submitted... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79655	The last part shouldn't. No, you wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79656	2004 requests for admission to the European Union. Well, we, when we came to power in 2000 then, until then, Croatia had not submitted a request for the European Union...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79657	That's already an explanation. Okay. Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79658	Thank you very much. So I would correct this assumption that it was almost defined that something had been done in Croatia contrary to what I would say about our particulars about exporting sugar. That's just not true. The European Union has voiced doubts, made an investigation into the ministry in my time of active participation. I could say one more thing to correct this, that it was the first beginning of pressure on Croatia because it was extremely well negotiated by the SAA, i.e. She got an unlimited quota. As soon as they saw it in the European Union, they tried to push us in all ways to change it, although I had already said enough what it meant for their market. That is now I would say the government's relationship, or ministry as much as it can deal with such political pressures. But then it can't possibly get into that taste that we've been talking about all along, which is that they're extremely satisfied producers, peasants, etc. 'Cause that's definitely not it. And we have to go back to that beginning, and the beginning is that the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry cannot be satisfied with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79659	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79660	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. So in this assembly, Mr. Minister is repeating today the same thesis that the European Community, it is incorrect, has made a reform of the sugar market and that it means something to us. Oh, Mr. Minister, that's nebulose, that's nonsense. It doesn't mean anything to us, you know it as well as I do. And being obedient at that time until no one makes you do it, that's even more foolish. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79661	A little choice of words from colleague Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79662	But that's the only way to end it, no different.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79663	Is, if so, who with the sword of the sword will die? Then there will be such words and others, similar words will be others. ... Please, where are you calling from now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know the Rules of Procedure all of a sudden around the corner, you answer. Emotions need to be suppressed a little bit. Dear representative, Ruža Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79664	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I want to get involved in this debate for the reason that there has been a sugar factory in County since 1947 and that all these years, if we exclude those years of failed privatisation and the creation of huge losses, it has actually successfully done business and has created one foundation and social security for all its employees, but also for the cooperatives it has about a thousand. Well, you might as well tell the pensioners because on the basis of these personal incomes, they had solid pensions. And that's why I'm here and I'm involved in this debate and I've been listening here all day to how, here, Croatia has been able to export as much as it wanted and that's true. But here, the indicators say how much we were doing when we wanted to and how much we were exporting it. If it was, here it is, since 2001. 40,000 tons, 2002. 64, 162, 2004 says because of a drought of 48 thousand and 2005. 189 grand. I've contacted the Sladoran administration, and here we've heard that this is the same opinion shared by other Sladorans, that this has reached a good deal. Here's what they backed me up on. They said that the county "Sladorana" produced 68 to 78 thousand tonnes of sugar, and in a good year and about 60,000 and sold 20 thousand tonnes on the domestic market already this year. So we can't just count on this export. If we take our needs as we've heard here and from literature, they're 150 thousand tons and if we add these 180 when we export it's 310 thousand tons. If we take, here, and now the second bill that we can do 180 grand and these 80s we import, we see that we still have 60, 70,000 tons left. It's practically another "Sladrana." Therefore, I see no reason for our sugar industry to be compromised. On the other hand, this Ministry is making a great effort to implement other processing complexes, where both fruits and production, and processing means fruit, then wine and everything else. Therefore, it will certainly increase the consumption of sugar on the domestic market. And I have to say that in the County of County, I can almost see the rareness of the sugar from Sladorana County, and I'd love to see it. It means that this production is very well exported. Now and therefore, I believe that this decision was both wise and responsible. This is where you say why you negotiate? Well, we can't be in any institution, no municipality, no city today, so we can't lock ourselves up in our village and city and country, so I don't think there's any progress and there's no development. That's why I congratulate the Minister for developing such a bold debate, I think you've made a good and fair decision and wisdom. And that's why this debate is actually being debated and pulled, and not because of the concern of the sugar industry because those most responsible, which are from these three factories, have said that they have a quota of exports, that they are fully satisfied and that they ensure the development of these factories and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79665	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79666	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I absolutely agree with you that we should talk, negotiate. Indeed, but all in the interest of those for whom you are appointed, which you must protect and which you must actually achieve in that negotiation to ensure that their interests are not damaged. However, to negotiate with the European Union, I have a chance to apologize for what I said because I didn't mean it that way, to think that it was wrong, that it wasn't good, etc., but in that heat I said it, here, let that apology be appreciated. So this, too, does not need to be a picturesque subject in order to exercise his right. Believe me, when you negotiate what you have a firmer position, the stronger you get with your arguments. Well, the European Union isn't some great virgin that we'd be humming to her now in a way that we'd have to be small from the puppy. We must also prove by our behaviour that we are a responsible people, that we are engrossing this Europe with our culture, our being, our desire that this group of peoples are even better, even stronger, and not just negotiating to achieve their goal, and we are what it is. That's why we're making this so much of a point, which is why we're so scared because people's beliefs are made, being a subject is never good. Because our people, unfortunately, remembers the giants who cut their heads off, where our people were hungry, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79667	Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79668	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I can actually agree with my colleague, Kolar. And I absolutely agreed that we should negotiate. I absolutely support that we shouldn't be courting, but I don't consider this agreement a deal. And if we had to protect our national interests, absolutely, I'm always for it and I'd always advocate it. And that we do not need to enter the European Union, I do not see that, surely we need to subdue our national interests. Therefore, all that you have said, I agree, but this agreement does not endanger our national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79669	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79670	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, look, I'm sorry that an esteemed colleague may not be familiar, so I can write her that part, and she said something that we who discussed and talked about didn't take care of the sugar factory enough. I'll remind you, dear colleagues. The factory "Sladorana" in Zupanja until 2000 was in charge above its core capital. This can be witnessed by everyone from the ministry and we haven't consolidated it and put it on its feet has almost failed. And I must honestly say that the concern of the sugar industry is maximumly guided, and when there was the possibility that it could start with, after signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, with such a good export product and they all used it. And that, I'd say, is one unequivocal fact. All those who are and today in the sugar shop, you can freely ask them what was done for them and if they could ever get out of those, first ownership structures they had. You know how until 2000 it was privatised through some strange companies, etc., so it was generally strangely questionable property so it was taken back to the state level, all recovered and consolidated total losses and made, I would say, a healthy company that immediately followed it and did positive business and to this day is doing a positive business. And the investments that have been made. As for the wise and responsible policy of the ministry right now, you can't say that, it's simply not true. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Minister himself cannot be wise and responsible at the moment when something is brought in that is critical of agriculture. We can talk about the foreign minister sitting here, that it is because of the general political interests that are beyond the interest of narrow agriculture and we have done something in that part. But with the close interest of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, this is neither wise nor responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79671	Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79672	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm the truth that I'm a professional doctor, but I'm very familiar with the situation of the Parish sweetener because I took part in their work and later. My debate didn't mean that you didn't, you didn't care in the past, but this debate didn't show up, I mean taking care of the sweet about the production of sugar, but it was about other interests. In that sense, I thought, and I know that she had losses of 437 million, which is 2.9% more than the subscribed capital and that it was recovered in 2002 from the state budget and that any other government would do so. I still allow myself to have my own opinion that this is a wise and responsible policy because it has negotiated and has succeeded in getting what our interests can satisfy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79673	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79674	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates, ladies and gentlemen. Let me remind all of us what sugar tail production is like, in fact, what it's like and how that income is made. If the Republic of Croatia knows little about agricultural policy and how it is implemented it is one of the most ordered productions in the Republic of Croatia. It's practically a millimetre or not to say a square metre of production, 'when it shines,' which means that producer, 'who takes care of culture all year long, what it takes out, where it dumps, what's going on, 'who accepts it.' In fact, it is one chain that was modeled in the Republic of Croatia, which should be a template for these other cultures. I've been there all along, and there's a colleague, and there's Mr. Lonchar, if that were the wheat production organized, then they'd tell me that we've solved a large part of the agricultural production and we might know exactly what's being discussed. So now as we talk about the sugar that is the ultimate product, where all this effort of peasants that has been made by all those organizers who here are, in no time going to the villages, are already in the villages, where contracts are now signed in one way or another about the price of a ton of sugar tail on the cost of costing each individual walk, I have to say they're in charge of their own estates, everything they own, it's a little bit to be expected, it's a little bit waiting. The price is expected, the price of a ton of tail, so the root of the tail is to cover the cost of production, is to be a digesty, means the percentage of sugar in the tail to cover the difference that should be an economic justification for production. So let's face it, this year was a special year, an extra year for the production of retinal roots, and it's a dysestia, it's not a secret that makes it bigger. To compensate for the lack of price that was made. And Minister, who do we have to lie to now? Well, that's known, professional circles explain it. So sit down with the economists and they'll tell you exactly what they did. Yes, yes, you're surprised there, so we in the country know that and we're not surprised because that's what we're told. Do we have more lufts that now that you claim to reform the sugar market in Europe would have started to apply. Well, there's no way we can produce that root now to produce sugar. In fact, if we're producing 50 tons per hectare now, it depends on the cost of Mr. Minister, you probably know as well as I do, 30 tons. Addictional costs! Europe produces 60 tons and more, but it's just as much an addictive cost. So they have a win-of-fifty and our peasant eventually if he fails to produce only his profits here, clearly and loudly we say now incentive. And it doesn't happen by accident and it's not just one and two producers that happen to have it. All those who have not made good... 'Cause it didn't work out, and it didn't work out for years, so they're just on this one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is why we now put ourselves at risk while we had one safe production, a safe market and an uncertain sowing. You have to convince me all the time, I can say the same rhetorically in this way that in Croatia nothing will happen under God but that it will be better. But no one trusts us, Mr. Minister, as you failed to convince me today, because on one side of the organizers who are now on one needle assures us that this should not have happened. We were able to increase the surface area and it is in our interest because the tail is economical there di is well-producted, where 50 tons can be passed, an economically profitable culture. Some say it's three, one against the wheat, some even if five and one and so on, I wouldn't be going into calculations now because depending costs can vary left and right. And now as we claim to have made a good move, there's actually a boomerang in public and a fear of how really what kind of reaction it is. And now that message is coming from this Parliament today. Well, our surfaces aren't limited. Well, Mr. Minister, it's such a bad message that we can't actually say that, we have to say something to each other. So we're not going to go to the big surfaces, the smaller yield, and no one's limiting us? Well, that would be terrible! So we're fighting by the unit of the surface to raise the yields, to free the surface, so our production resources are such that we're actually somewhere on the come as these say, we Podravi three frittata gas, we haven't even added real gas to produce the full amount we can because they don't allow us the objective circumstances that they are because we're being tortured, tortured, tortured and constantly growing and they're a ballast of general development. That's why today we shouldn't just be talking about the point. Have you prevailed, compensated or not? It's just that there's no more development there, it's limited, because behind the quantitative quotas so the ministers have to reach surface quotas. Which would be the European Union to tell you, you have quantitative and you have no surface. That's step two, and that's the end of the story. You know as well as I do. But why jump into your stomach before we have to jump into that stomach so-called. The European Union because there is no mercy here. For now, we have a place to comfort our farmers, a place to create an environment for them, to raise them while they are economically strengthened we are now putting them on this hour for a windstorm where they are hard to cope with. And if this is an excuse to sell sugar on the domestic market, then ministers but not the price that was raised there, I guess that's what you and I know. So what are we talking about? Because those of us who spend imported sugar don't have 200 tonnes in reserve at the moment, 200 euros per tonne of the stock. They don't have easy because they don't export that moment anymore and the domestic market doesn't need to be absorbed, there's no luft. And now we're actually making up a ruckus and we're discussing some kind of rabbit in Europe. I am really interested in man and it would be fair if we were told what concession the European Union has given us for Croatia's concession. What is this compensation, in which the field and why we are ultimately opening up what the European Union wants and what we want is not discussed. It bothers me. What if we told you when the agriculture chapter opens and when agriculture starts to debate that we're going global, that we're looking for a variety of exceptions. There it is, I've heard a hundred times and the Prime Minister at the final meeting when we were he said there's no way we're gonna give in somewhere in the European Union if it's not in our interest. In the end, I am now caught seeing what is happening and very little is caused because we are in a better position than the European Union could have thought because they overestimated us during the SAA when we signed. Therefore, we should be responsible all together and simply avoid signing any protocols and amendments and additions, and as far as domestic agricultural production is concerned, we should really encourage it to stand on healthy feet to be competitive tomorrow and not to have such a fragile and yet little now that trust in the ultimate and ministry and all of us together lose and that we have one uncertainty on the market and already there is said how many thousands of cooperatives are terrified because now no one alive will say what the price is, what it is, and all of it is expensive because everyone is waiting for a reaction and because this has been applied or will not be applied since 1.1. In the end, I'm sure and don't want it for evil to want to end the implications neither the Ministry nor everyone else to know. It's only by applying it that you can see what kind of implications they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79675	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79676	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad the man Ivo Kolar really understands when he's talking about agriculture and I often agree with it, and here he has what he said he can agree with but there are also things I can't agree with. Well, that's why I've made a replica to correct the incorrect assumption that he can answer me. First, Ivane needs to see how many war areas there are in Croatia, that's number one. Number two, as much as Croatia can produce sugar. Number three, in the last six years, we will not go further, as much sugar was produced in Croatia. We've had four sugars in our time, three still working Osijek, Parish and Virovitica. The White Manastir was under occupation, that's what the Chetniks destroyed, etc. However, when we talk about the market where the market is. At what price can we on that market place our industrial herbs and, above all, sugar? So you don't get it wrong, I'm not against it if we don't go into more production. I am always in favour of going to profitable production, not as it happened in the previous Parliament's meeting when we forced the production of wheat where we produced it twice as much as we needed, at twice as much prices as they were on the European market and then we sold it twice as low even though it was encouraged. So these are the fundamental questions that we need to discuss. We also know very well... that there is practically no production of sugar tail from Virovitica west here, nor is it an area for the production of industrial plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a question of all the questions. If we're going to go back to that time, I just said that, when the Croatians were ruled by the party-run coalition, when we were doing the circus from both us and Europe, when we lied and sold them other people's sugars and brought the state practically to the stage of shame and did huge damage to the Croatian state, Croatian peasants and most sugars. So these are the things we need to take care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79677	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79678	Thank you very much. I wasn't talking about this last part, and this isn't a replica to me, it's a replica of the implications of agricultural policy, and I think I'm rejecting it from myself, and I don't need to discuss it at all. Well, are we agreeing or disagreeing? I suppose Mr. Lonchar and I share the same goal that agricultural policy is actually being carried out responsibly. This agricultural policy assures farmers the existence that it is economically profitable, that it is ecologically sustainable and that ultimately and populationally retains peasants in the area where they should dwell. I assure you, Mr. Minister, if one hectare shrinks, two or five that we've made, not a hundred or a thousand, that we've committed a crime where neither you nor I can be justified why this is happening. It would not be good if by this act we felt a year for two that our agricultural, meaning in this part of the hectares under the sugar tail, that the interest in producing sugar tail falls because then we only feel these implications that this protocol changes and complements the SAA. That's what I'm talking about. I'm afraid of a reaction on the ground. That kind of tones come from the field. They warn that it is a healthy climate, that good was economic cost-effectiveness, so it could increase hectares and all together. With this move, I'm personally afraid, and I'm bringing it here that actually one step back, not in advance, because there's no hope, but there's a fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79679	Thank you. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79680	You know there are exact indicators for all of them. There are numbers that tell more than all the stories. We here declare that we can talk for hours about what's of interest, what's the need, what's to be done and what's done? But the numbers are inexorable. And the fact that this year sugar will be produced almost as much as it was produced during the last term of office, I think it best says what kind of framework for sugar production in the Republic of Croatia is created. And that's what we can agree here, not agree, have views but numbers are inexorable. The numbers show what it means. And let me tell you one more time. I'm not going back to that. The thing about exporting cane sugar wasn't the end of the story. It's a story that was extremely, extremely difficult and where the end of what was going to happen, is there going to be a suspension of that sugar export article that's being talked about or are we going to justify it? We've justified it. No, Mr. Pancret, you. You left that open question. I personally and my associates put this problem behind my back as far as the European Commission is concerned. And as for the responsibilities of those who have done so, this is not the end of the process. It's something that brings far more question to the survival of a sweetener than this protocol and this sugar quota.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79681	Your Honorable representative, Ljubica, please? Ljubica Brdarić. ... What kind of suspension of sugar Mato? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We don't give sugar. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79682	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing the proposal for a law created as a result of negotiations between our negotiating team and the negotiating team of the European Union. And he was led about in the way "We will negotiate, we will agree, but it will be as the negotiators of the European Union say." We heard here that it is a good job. How the management structures of our sugarcanes are satisfied the minister is even happy. I'm glad the minister is happy, too. That's nice. But the laws are not passed to make ministers and prime ministers happy, but for the benefit of all our citizens, I believe. Now let's see what makes the minister so happy and our leadership structures satisfied? Probably because we didn't have sugar export quotas and now we have them. That's a very good reason for happiness. The minister says or someone else, I don't know, I've been listening all day to hear how particularly pleased they are at the county pastry. As I come from the parish myself and as well as others I know that story I can believe that the management structure is satisfied that it is of course dependent on the government so whether or not it wants to be satisfied. I'm not so sure about that. In fact, I think they're very concerned about their future and I share that concern with them. Because my gentlemen "whom the snakes have bitten and the lizard is afraid," says our people. And we've been bitten a lot. And often. So when they say it was a failure of privatisation, I couldn't agree because then we could call it privatized and transformed debauchery, and it's really about the crime and robbery of our people. The mayor's pastry was thrown on her knees. And not only was the town of Zupanja dependent on the pasture, but the entire county of Posavina, Vukovar-Srijem County and beyond. And now that's the way it is. I have a habit of saying when sugar or sweetener as they now call it doesn't work well that the compromised heart is beating and spreading. And when she doesn't work gentlemen and if she doesn't get broken, she's the economic spine of that neighborhood. Slavonia didn't deserve it. And when we talk about these quotas and this agreement, we're not just talking about what's going to happen right now. We must bear in mind that we are talking about both the future and the other two sugars because it is not irrelevant whether one of them is going to close and what is it going to be? I'm equally concerned about all three because every one of them is made by some people who have a family, who live on it. The same is how cooperatives live. Our mouths are full of stories about how a peasant should be helped and how people should be returned to the country. I'm not sure this is a way to help them. Yes, of course. Our villages will grow older and empty. People will leave. Who's going to give birth? Who's going to live anyway? You won't even have an old man in the country. And then someone else will be our fault, as usual. I would love to, when it comes to negotiating that less efforts are made to like the European Union and that it takes more care of its citizens and we are currently talking about sweeteners and our peasants. When I think about Slavonia, I get the feeling that it's one of the most productive regions in Europe, and as far as I'm concerned, maybe on the planet. So why don't we have the guts to take advantage of it? Why is no one ever up until now? We're all talking about the same thing. And there's nothing to be done to give us what God has given us, which is really worth taking advantage of and not having to tell stories like this. It's time to put an end to it. If we want to have villages where there will be children. If we want people in our neighborhoods to do agriculture. If we want to have all three sweeteners so that people can work in them and everyone else who's tied to them so we don't have to be addicted to the budget and the mercy of the state, but to live off our work. It's very important to me that it's going to be with the county sweetener because I live there. And I intend to go back there. That's the end I come from. That's where my children are born, and look at the wonders, they don't even want to go. No matter what's not easy for us, it's close to the borders. That we are poored that by the war that we are converting, however, the will to remain exists. Then the government would be obliged to help those who feel so that they can stay there and live a decent man's life, to live off their work, to be competitive tomorrow in that Europe, not to be caught unprepared and to stay at the mercy of the people and what the villagers would say to watch from where it's clear. Thank you. If that's not done, I'm afraid this sweet story about sugar will leave a bitter taste in our mouths.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79683	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79684	Well, here's a colleague of mine who said that the County malts were thrown on their knees in the first place, and that they had rescheduled it. Because I have this accident unlike many, I was born 90 years ago, so I know something from that time. Here, I envy those who were born and sit in this House after the 1990s. My dear colleague, do you know how the County Liquor was rescheduled? With 505 million kuna, it's official, and off the record, not half of it went to the rescue. This can best be explained to you by the former Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy and former Minister of Agriculture, and it has been rescheduled as five Croatian solos that were now rescheduled with 2 billion kunas of money from Croatian taxpayers. That's how it was done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79685	Replication response. But this was, by content, a replica. ... That's what you picked up, but it was, in fact, it was a replica. [[You can't hear it.]] No, I'm not breaking it. Replication response. It was an integral replica regardless of what you raised. Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79686	Thank you. Well, here I am, unlike my fellow potters, not unhappy that I was born a little later. It's not my choice. It happened, and I have to say, I don't regret that the sweetener was consolidated, because if it wasn't for you, you'd break the spine, the economic spine of that neighborhood, and punish the people who live on it, and they're not guilty of what happened in the privatisation. No onions ate, no onions smelled, but under their backs broke, and it's good that someone had the hearing to correct the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79687	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go. Order! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79688	Thank you, Mr. President. So here we are today discussing a problem and a question that is very important not only for Slavonia but also for Croatia. This is a substance that should be partly undeniable and where it should agree that there is some truth that cannot be disputed, and the truth is that according to the agreement, the SP Croatia was allowed unlimited exports of sugar to the European Union, provided it is produced in Croatian sugars and from sugar beet grown in Croatia. It's an irrefutable fact. It's signed. It is an expression of the will of both Contracting Parties or Contracting Parties. We are now going to change that agreement. We didn't get a convincing explanation today, which is why it's changing. In the absence of this convincing argument, I personally believe that the amendments to this Agreement are solely negative. Why are they negative? Based on the signed agreement, we in Croatia were able to direct agricultural production and agricultural production was directed even though today, both the consolidation and the rehabilitation of sugar can be slowed down. But I don't think it was a bad decision. Why don't I think that was a bad decision? Because she was resuscitating and correcting the mistakes of some previous governments that allowed privatisation and that allowed for a further period, we would have a situation so that thousands of families would be without income, so that the cooperatives would have no one to produce for them. And in that part, I justify this resolution because in Croatia too much budget money is spent on things that do not have nearly as much significance as this candy recovery has. So when we targeted production, when we introduced both incentives or support to this production, I note that for sugar beet it was the incentive of 3000 kuna. When we gave hope to the peasants that they had someone to produce for them, that they had a safe market, when they planned their production in the long term, when they were in charge of buying the machinery, and just if you want farmland, we now allow them, by amending the agreement at the request of the European Union, to do so and accept it, and then we are hypocritically saying that we have not limited the hectares. We didn't limit that word to hectares. It contains such a terrible message. It contains a message to the peasants you know we'll cut the yields and we won't fight to produce more on smaller surfaces. It can be produced even less. You will be employed, and we have listened not as representatives in this House of one policy which assured us that nothing is worth producing in Croatia, but actually importing everything. And by amending this agreement, he will suffer damage and he is harmful to workers because it is evident that one more of the sugars will have to be closed. I don't know. Whether it will be Osijek or it will be Virovitic but with all three there were problems, and in all, budget money was spent in the recovery of all three. That agreement is harmful to the peasants because we're breaking out their safety stick and sending them a message, gentlemen, we don't know what kind of agrarian policy we're going to run, and we don't know what to tell you that you're going to produce. We were not satisfied with the production of wheat, which is indeed made significantly more expensive in Croatia than in other European and world countries. But we had to find a replacement for that culture because we can't put all Slavons on a beggar stick and put them in the social category. Personally, as Slavonka, I am offended that my parents, my brothers, and my sisters are putting on a social quota, putting them on a social stick when they are quite capable and able to work and produce. This agreement is ultimately harmful to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia as a consumer because we have also adopted a National Consumer Strategy. We have also passed the Consumer Protection Act, and we have committed to taking care of consumers, and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is a consumer. Unfortunately, this agreement brings more expensive sugar to these same consumers, not only direct sugar but also other production related to it. We heard here today that the producers weren't happy because they were exporting. Should that statement be commented? I'm sorry there's no minister here because by believing his well-meaningness, I want to believe it was an unwarranted statement. My people, so we keep talking about how it is necessary for Croatia to increase exports and kubur with non-competitive products. We can't find foreign markets because of our incompetence. And here, when we were able to find an foreign market, when we were able to find an foreign market, we now accept quotas based on the pressure of the European Union. Don't judge me that I am not to enter the European Union. I am for joining the European Union, but as a partner, not as a servant. Should the question of ZERP be withdrawn on this occasion? We'll have him at the hearing these days. So how long are we gonna make those concessions? Concessions on behalf of Croatia, concessions and on behalf of my Slavonia. Mr. Minister, he's gone, but here, by means of public communications, I ask him, Mr. Minister, what are we going to produce in Slavonia? Tell us. We have one single vegetable dryer, which is state-owned, which was built with funds, county budgets and a state for which there is a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 11 months 2003 to capitalise with 8 million kuna and solve its existential problem in the long term. The new government has done nothing but allow for the loss of up to 29 million kuna. We've given industrial vegetables three thousand kuna support. Because the market was secure. The dryer can't buy. So a Slavonic peasant, a sub-level peasant, can't even produce vegetables. The wheat, I said, and I stand by myself to reduce the production of wheat because we make it too expensive. But what are we going to do, Mr. Minister? Well, we can't all live in Slavonia out of winemaking and wine. My people, so the vineyard can't be everywhere. They say my people there in Savina, when the vineyards are innate on Savi, then the beavers will be married. That means never. Well, we can't, unorganized, unplanned and once inconsistent agrarian policy talk about us standing up for the regional, united regional development of the Republic of Croatia. Well, we now produce mostly primary agricultural production in Slavonia. And in one conversation with Mr. Minister, I told Mr. Minister if we were convicted of producing only raw materials, we're growing bigger and bigger poor. It's imperative to us, and if we want to raise the standard of few of these people, then we have to create a food industry. And Mr. Secretary agreed to that. Of course, I understand that he agreed because he's a Slavonic too, and I know he's embarrassed to discuss this today. But now, instead of presenting something to us, to present some projects that will represent the establishment of insurance, and I don't know how to describe it to the food industries, we accept amendments and additions to the Agreement that, and to this no food industry, are destroying us again, leave us without a job so that workers leave us without work and peasants themselves. Well, maybe we're in part in these discussions and we're away from this basic topic, which is the agreement. However, Mr. Minister, we have a legal obligation every year to discuss the green report, which means the state of agriculture. But here's how I know this is now the third year and there's no green report. And finally let me tell you that it's really a completely unfounded statement that manufacturers are satisfied. I don't know what kind of telephone Mr. Minister has, I don't know who's answering his phone, but peasants as primary producers and sugar workers are not satisfied and this agreement is considered a betrayal not only of Croatia, especially of Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79689	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79690	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's counterpart Lalic keeps saying that the new government has done nothing but some debts and so on. Which is not true. The new government has secured sugar, and here I am looking at 2000, 2001 and 2002. The government, the former government has taken some 100,000 and some small tones somewhere. And there's 180 thousand tons a year here. The flock of the government managed to carry out Cuban sugar along with the rest, and it's a great honor. And with one of the ministers at the head of the supervisory defenses the sugars and good for her. We could've lost a ton of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79691	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79692	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I have to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who claims to reduce production by such certain quotas, that employment will... Slow down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can also do you, because I come from Virovitica County, from an economic council where sugar producers claim to be extremely pleased that in writing they gave an indication to the minister, the ministry as negotiators with such export quotas for sugar. And please don't represent those who didn't hire you or give you the right to talk about something you have no idea about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79693	Second, third correction, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79694	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representative Lalic said the Slavonian farmers would be left without income. That's not true. Because if more is produced, huge imports of sugar tails from Hungary will be reduced. And we are not here to advocate, or encourage, imports from Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79695	Replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79696	I almost forgot what I was gonna say. She says that the Slavs can't live on wine alone. Honey, with this absurd law of 0.00 promila, not that only Slavons can live on wine, not even Istrians, can't Dalmatians, can't Međimurians. Not only can't the peasants, but they won't be able to host soon. If anyone survives. And as for sugar later, and sugar is also important for wine yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79697	Replica response, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79698	Well, colleague Cain, as far as we colleagues take you a little bit and unseriously, but also the introduction of those zeros/zeros, and that's a policy that's directed against agriculture. And that's politics! And that's why we've had and we still have a bill of law, which, by the will of the President of the Parliament, has been pending debate for two years, but there is absolutely no debate. And you know, colleague Cain, and sugar is related to wine, including these zeroes, but I wouldn't want to talk about it, maybe Mr. Secretary could answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79699	Okay, now just don't turn sugar into wine. Wine and water. Now we've got five minutes of club debates. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79700	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind again that, at the 18th session of 2001, a Law confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States was adopted. That it was reached by a majority of the majority then with 87 votes in favour and that the parliament had then reached a special conclusion before deciding on it, which is required to vote on this issue by a half-way majority of all MPs. In view of this fact, this amendment and the supplement must be made in the same way as the agreement itself has been adopted, and this means that a half majority of MPs must be provided. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the issue of agricultural development, the issue of food industry development and chemical industry based on agriculture and food industry which is its raw materials base or in the production of raw materials or semi-products for the food industry and the chemical industry is actually a question of the development of our entire region of Slavonia and Baranja and not only of it, divided by like and Dalmatian hinterland, but certainly also of northern Croatia, our Međimurje, Varazdin and Podravina. And in such a situation, it is not welcome with the proposal to amend and supplement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is trying to say that a situation that has been found by the European Union is a matter of amending the Agreement and that such an amendment to the agreement restricting the opportunities of the Republic of Croatia is a good job for the Republic of Croatia. We estimate this extremely bad job for the Republic of Croatia, besides the proposer himself, has stated in his proposal that it will reduce customs revenue related to the increase of the export quota in the Republic of Croatia by 12 times to 80,000 tonnes from 6 thousand and 800 tonnes is increasing imports of sugar to Croatia. Then it comes to ensuring duty-free imports, exports of Croatian sugar to the European Union by 180 thousand tonnes, and before that were without any restrictions. We remind ourselves of the fact that, as a starting assumption for the development and debate on quotas, there were about 30,000 hectares of agricultural land on which sugar beet is produced, and that 180 thousand tonnes of sugar is precisely for the production of around 28,29 thousand hectares. In such a situation it is quite clear that this proposal for an agreement with industrial, development, social and legal aspects is unacceptable for the Republic of Croatia and we cannot vote for this proposal to amend and supplement the agreement. We would especially like to highlight this social component. The restriction of exports of sugar limits, in fact, the possibility of spreading, i.e. the dynamics of the development of agricultural production in the production of sugar beet and, of course, the processing industry in the production of sugar and in this segment, in fact, further increase in the productivity of work, the increase in yield per hectare of sugar beet, the increase in the volume per kilogram of sugar beet, the reduction of fibre structure in sugar beet, etc., so all that affects the quality of sugar beet and the increase in sugar yield in sugar production and, of course, the digestia itself will ultimately lead to the fact that instead of expanding this activity it will narrow down, and this will fall on the burden of our peasants, at the end of the subjects that produce, it will fall on the burden of sugar workers in sugars and in such a situation, in the end line will hit a large number of our families. Because of all these things, it is quite clear that the European Union does not really know what it has achieved, this export that we have so far had 1% led to it being around 77% for the European Union, which is insignificant to it, but has allowed it to actually place sugar from Baltic countries that had large reserves after entering the European Union and into this space. We warn that the agreement should not have been changed, that the European Union had to and could have asked for an amendment and a supplement to the agreement but we did not have to accept it, and in such a situation we do not feel that we can be proud of this amendment and the addition of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement because it is harmful to the Republic of Croatia, it is harmful to our agriculture, it is harmful to our food industry, it is harmful to the development of our areas dealing with agricultural and food production, and therefore we will vote against this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79701	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79702	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The main thing about international agreements is respect for procedures. If the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been prescribed by the European Union, at the request of the European Union, that any market disturbance is a party that initiates an international legal procedure through the Council, through stabilisation and accession, then we can conclude that this has not been done here. For these reasons alone, the European Union has decided to launch negotiations with the Republic of Croatia to over-export Croatian sugar to the European Union market. Of course, no argument is really valid here and it is clear that the arguments provided for in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement could not be used, because that 1% of the amount of Croatian sugar on the European Union market could not have caused any economic disturbances. What is weirder to us, what is incomprehensible to us is why the Croatian Government has agreed to conduct negotiations with the European Union outside the context of the general negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I remind you, we're in a completely discreet position, one of a terrible difference. When it comes to the economic belt, it does not want to go to separate fisheries negotiations. In the case of sugar, the European Union shall, at the request of the European Union, pursue separate negotiations on sugar. What is even weirder is that we have heard from the European Union constantly about how we have to liberalise the market, how we have to go to the free market, how we have to open the market. We, ladies and gentlemen, were open markets. Croatian sugar producers and Croatian sugar producers have succeeded. We exported more sugar to the Union than they thought, and now Croatia needs to be cut. In addition, in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, free trade applies only to those 90% of products in which Croatia is not competitive. And where we're competitive there are quotas already introduced. And that is why the laxity is continued, which is why the European Union, on the one hand, is waving free markets according to the implementation of the WTO, is pressing Croatia on this. But what is strange is why does the Croatian Government agree? We are not obliged to agree to this before we conclude negotiations with the European Union on the sugar market. We are not obliged to join the European market reform strategy because we are not yet: a) a member of the European Union, nor, b) we have completed negotiations with the Union on sugar. Not about sugar, but about your farm together. So at least it's weird why the government got into it all together. Talking about success is at least hypocritical, not to say a more difficult word. If we exported 190 thousand tonnes to the Union last year, if we export 220 thousand tonnes this year, we talk about 180 thousand tonnes as success is simply incorrect because it is nevertheless imposing a limit less, significantly less than this year's exports. And in any case, the limit because we've been working without any restrictions. What is crucial is that it will not reduce the import of sugar into Croatia and indeed there are incomprehensible thesis heard here from the HDZ Club, from the government's representatives that it is good that there is no export. Well, my people, we've been struggling for years to have exports, now suddenly someone's going to convince us to export home, don't export out. On the contrary, turning the chicken upside down. So what unfortunately is one of the possible consequences is that one of the 3 sugars in these conditions will fail. And that's what the HSP Club is deeply concerned about with this kind of sugar protocol. Which is going to be sugar, whether it's viritative, county or sense, it's just as terrible. So we didn't have to come to this. I know that for the ratification of the protocol or international agreements it would take 2/3, but unfortunately, as I recall, the last time was enough and half a majority qualified. So, everyone, in any case, the HSP Club, for all of these reasons, will not support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79703	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79704	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I will correct Mr. Tonci Tadic's incorrect allegations where he claimed that one of the sugars in Croatia would fail. One of the sugar can be closed but can be taken over by the other two and combined to unite the production of the Croatian market so that it will be easier and better and better quality on the Croatian market. But resourcefully, to reassure you, surely she won't, she's privatized, she's doing well. Super good, achieves the best results, has good references and good stocks on the stock market, develops further, improves production and expands production into an alternative. So you don't have to be worried about the virulent sugar shop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79705	The HSS Club, a respected representative of Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79706	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with the assistants. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've come to an end to this debate and I must conclude that there has been an attempt here to defend indefensible. And for these reasons, I would like to tell Mr. Minister that he was really trying in that part, but it is impossible to defend something, not with me, I would say at least those positions to be defended by the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy. I repeat that, in any case, this signed protocol goes to the detriment of agriculture and agricultural producers, the sugar industry. What the size of that damage is going to be that which of us can now assess I'm taking off his hat, I'm not going in the direction of whether there's going to be something closed, how many jobs are going to lose, what's going to happen. But I assure you, when something is being limited, and when we have a certain expansion in part of a particular production, then we will certainly suffer certain damages, and I think that all of us sitting here are fully aware of it. And so, I repeat once again, the fact that in this topic, in defence of this, she could speak here relevantly in the part of the defense, in the political part of the foreign minister, if it is a political interest that we, we must enter the European Union, and we will not enter the European Union unless we sign this protocol or this quota, then we can talk about it. But from the point of view of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy, this is a bad thing. This is the thing that will do us some damage. I can ask all of us sitting here and I'd say we're thinking about all of this, until we're all going to listen to these certain directives that come directly to us, whether we want to admit it to ourselves or not. You can't declare ZERP, we interrupt negotiations, you have to accept the sugar quota, you have to enable the sale of real estate to foreigners and a series of other very direct ones, I would say, even sometimes not very wrapped in the whole-of-the-world directive that we've got. So here, and this example, I would say, when the prime minister was a little bit sharper towards the envoy and the ambassador of the European Union, too, because it was being handled by certain things, so he would say to the prime minister. Now the question is, what are we all doing here, when we talk about this, what are we gonna do? Would it make sense to keep a certain possibility given to us by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? The unlimited quota, the ability to increase production, the trend is great, I don't think anyone can dispute it. Every year it gets bigger, just don't let God hit us or the drought or any other accident, but every year by a few thousand acres, the surfaces are growing under the sugar tail. Definitely a possibility that opens up to us is a big one. Well, just to keep all these workers, not just to keep all these cooperatives, but to certainly increase that production. If that does not happen, if unfortunately a sufficient number of hands will be gathered here in this House to confirm this protocol I fear those who will raise their hands will be participants of something that is now, at this point difficult to assess but certainly damage to agricultural production in a segment called the sugar industry. We have an export product, and nobody here can believe me or convince you that when you find a good export product, when he found his market and it's in export that it's not a thing that, all of us here should be very proud and that we should all be able to keep almost as much of an eye as we can because only exports can, can contribute to other things that apply to agriculture making a certain balance and still get out of a situation that is not most favourable. For these reasons, of course, the Croatian Peasant Party Club does not support this protocol and will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79707	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79708	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a fellow Pankretić all the time saying we're going to be in a lot of damage. Well, there's no way because if we're looking at the average export quantity and sugar quota, this agreed quota is way out of line. Only one year more sugar was exported. Farmers will also have no harm because increased production will reduce sugar tail imports. But otherwise, the concept of damage must be an interesting and important concept found in stockpiles after your reign.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79709	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79710	Mr. President! Well, I'm going to correct the incorrect quote of an esteemed colleague who's talking about increasing the area under the sugar tail, which is absolutely incorrect. It is increasing the yield from hectares and what you say our peasants will not have what to do is also incorrect because imports from Hungary, Serbia and other sugar tail countries in Croatia and processing it also damages our producer, which you have had the opportunity to authorise quotas for imports of sugar tails from Hungary, from other countries for processing in Croatia. And you didn't encourage as it happens today to encourage the production of homemade sugar tails and through the very sugars that it encourages along with the counties. In fact, in a number of incorrect allegations, the biggest thing is what is said constantly and deceives the public that major damage will be done to producers, processors and all sugar industry employees absolutely do not stand anywhere. And I will repeat, all sugar producers unanimously agreed and welcomed this voted quota, which is 180 thousand tonnes, said to be realistic, that they are objective and that they satisfy Croatian production and Croatian producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79711	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79712	The gentleman corrects what I didn't say, Mr. President. The 209th article corrects this part of the gentleman what I did not say and I did not say that those who produce that they are overly satisfied and that in that part they express their satisfaction in this way, but I made it clear that the damage that will yet be done and that these assessments with any pleasures and dissatisfactions are impossible to assess. They were alive and seen. The warnings are clear and I think we'll all be sure of that together and that'll be unfortunate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79713	You made one claim...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79714	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79715	That by accepting this, there would be damage. Representative Djakic claimed that this was not true and that is the correction of the incorrect allegations, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79716	Okay. He misquoted me in a voice... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79717	Well, he misquoted it, so it's not, it's an explanation. Representative of the Honorable Damir Cain, IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79718	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister! Here, I will once again as I did and in the morning read which was the export of white sugar in 2001 to October 2006. In 2001, 40,000 tonnes were exported and 23 million dollars were received. 2002. 65,000 tons exported, incomed $39.7 million. In 2003, 162 thousand tonnes were exported, incomed $120 million. ... In 2004, only 49,000 were exported for drought if I wasn't mistaken and only $40 million was incomed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In 2005, 134 million dollars were received and as much as 189,000 tonnes were exported. And for the first ten months of this year, 155,000 tonnes were exported and $113.4 million was received. So, from January 3rd to 2003, 200 million dollars were received, exports of 300 thousand tonnes. By 2007, or to the end, twice as much sugar will be received, but twice as much sugar exported. In order to be fair, we must say this, that there was no SOSP or Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed there somewhere in mid-2001, none of that would have happened. There would be neither saving Croatian sugars nor exporting in such sizes, and sugar would not be around 15% to 20% of Croatian agricultural exports and certainly thousands and thousands of Slavonian families, regardless of the incentives that will be discussed after this debate, would come into existential problems. So, a quota-free policy, without customs, has somehow saved Croatian sugars and saved that policy from Slavonian village, at least those farmers who are dealing with sugar-tailed production. It also says how much we are addicted in some way to the European Union. And what is the central issue during today's debate is why have we limited ourselves in a home situation that will be roasted in 2009? This is the central question to be answered because it is understandable if there is no excessive response and the government has not given it, it should be against this proposed proposal. Incentive by a hectare somewhere is about 3,000 kuna, but I still want to touch something else. The gentleman, as it is called, has mentioned earlier that 550 million kuna has been invested in the recovery of the County Diabetes. It's certainly a significant money, it's a huge amount of money but it's certainly less damage than the closure that could have happened if that sugar can't have been recovered, it's number one, or that no modus was found to simply save one through export at this point we'll agree to all income agricultural or economic branch. I personally do not want to believe that any of the Croatian sugars will be extinguished in the next period. This should normally not happen and at the cost of the state resuscitating this business of one, the other or the third sugarcane, but we will all have to imagine what will happen after 2009. So, by 2009, there will probably be no bigger problems, but in 2009, it will be very soon, so in just two years, and unless our sugars are prepared for the challenges they will face, I'm afraid we'll have to reach again for substantial recovery funds. Understandably, no one will think about shutting down but after 2009, I fear that these sugars will regain serious financial difficulties, including the legal proposal offered to us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79719	Thank you. HDZ club respected representative Tomislav Tomic. Here you go. ... You had a correction? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, I'm sorry, correcting the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79720	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Namely, speaking of the damage to the Croatian economy when Mr. Cain speaks of such moments, I must deny him and reassure him because it is a total inaccuracy. Here, we have just received a letter from all three sugars to all Croatian MPs saying in which the last paragraph is spoken "In the interest of the Croatian economy and three sugars and a large number of farmers who produce sugar tail we appeal to the parliamentary representatives to accept this agreement. Otherwise, it would be impossible to continue normal exports of sugar during 2007. "years." Sugar in Osijek Candit "Prime Minister", Sladorana from Županja and Viro from Virovitica. Tell me what you've been drumming about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79721	Okay. For the HDZ club, respected representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79722	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Ministry! Here, this Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol amending and supplementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia, of the one part, and the European Community and their Member States, of the other part, on the customs quotas for sugar and sugar products originating in Croatia or from the Community, is certainly not an act of issuing national interests as we could hear from certain representatives, but as a candidate country for membership in the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is responsible for preparing its economic operators and producers on conditions and methods of enforcing in the common agricultural policy or in common with all other members of the European Union. A platform of negotiations has been set up well and a well-negotiated policy on customs quotas for sugar and 180 thousand tonnes has been well negotiated, and the European Union has given up export subsidies for sugar and similar products on export to the Republic of Croatia, but also an additional quota for 80,000 tonnes on imports to the Republic of Croatia, and it has already been said that customs will be deployed over three years and it will never be zero but after three years it will be 50%. I am sorry that after my debate, you divided 180 thousand tonnes by 30 thousand tons of hectares and in some way stopped the total production of 6 tonnes per hectare because I also stressed in my speech the need for both rationalization and the rise of technological levels and production and processing. 180 thousand tonnes is certainly a European market and other quantities have a Croatian market and have a safe market for third countries. And here we have called for the approval of the participation of sugar tail processors in the Republic of Croatia several times. This is where the memo came from both the Candit "Primier" and the sweetener and the Vira d.d., so let me read it. "By following the course of the parliamentary debate on the ratification of the additional protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we address the representatives of the Croatian Parliament with further clarification regarding the signing of an additional protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement." Croatian sugarcanes have been informed and consulted throughout the negotiations with the European Union on the introduction of a quantum regime instead of unlimited exports that are required by the European Union to adapt the Republic of Croatia to a new sugar trade regime in the European Union, i.e. a total production reduction of 8 million tonnes. Accordingly, Croatia has been able to negotiate an export quota from an initial requirement of 80 thousand tonnes to 180 thousand tonnes, but the fact is that the reform of the EU sugar market at the same time abolished the water, subsidized sugar for export to third countries, and the Croatian sugar industry has finally opened a space for sugar placement on its own market, which was not possible until this year. Since 2006, Croatian sugars have produced 240 thousand tonnes of sugar from sugar beet and almost 80,000 tonnes of sugar from sugar cane. With exports of 180 thousand tonnes, there remains 120 thousand tonnes left to be placed on the domestic market by Croatian sugars. Croatia's sugar industry is not a problem in introducing quotas but in achieving a low sugar production price to be ready for Croatia's entry into the European Union. The production quota that the European Union will subsequently determine during the agricultural negotiations should be significantly higher than the export or corresponding platform of the Government of Croatia that speaks of sugar beet production at 30 thousand hectares and the production of 240,000 tonnes sugar. The Croatian sugar industry hopes that this government platform will be adopted by the European Union, which will generate the survival of the Croatian sugar industry provided that we are fully competitively and qualitatively competitive with European sugar producers, which we have come very close to. In the interest of the Croatian economy and three sugars and a large number of farmers who produce sugar beet, we appeal to the parliamentary representatives to accept this agreement. Otherwise, it would be impossible to continue the announced exports, normal sugar exports during 2007. I invite you on behalf of the HDZ Club to support this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79723	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79724	Thank you. Dear Mr. President! I am sure that this manipulation was not needed, but it is incorrect with Mr Tomic's claim, so finally the minister himself is saying carefully enough that the hope of Croatia is ensured by future negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79725	What's wrong with a colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79726	It's incorrect that everything is well done because the industry itself is talking about fear, about fear, about... Politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I texted him talking. Well, analyze it well. They hope the negotiations will end with 240 thousand tons. That this isn't enough for them. To be priced competitive, to be a government, to make decisions. It's not a done deal, Mr. Minister. Well, that's the problem. Because you didn't convince us it was a done deal, but this is just paper and a government promise to make it happen. Well, that's what we've been talking about all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79727	That's, that's a quote from the letter. It's a letter-reading. That's a quote you can't read All right, all right. [[That's right. He read it as arguments. ……]] But He doesn't get right, he doesn't get right. [[I'm talking nonsense.]] It's the opinion and attitude of others, and here is quoted as a point of view [[Intruder: He took it as his own.]] The quoted position of the administration of three sugars. [[Intruder: He doesn't like to be out there, you know that.]] Yeah. ... You know very well that MPs quote various documents. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[But Mr. President, you know he has to speak his own, not someone else's.]] They quote views, opinions of others, and then them, correcting an incorrect quote when they want to correct the opinion and position of someone else's body or other association. The final review of Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79728	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's today we've been discussing this issue almost all day. The problem is serious, sugar is a serious thing and I have worked as a representative of the Croatian Government to point out what preceded the signing of this agreement. Which will be after the signing, and I wanted to inform the honourable MPs better, so that there wouldn't be any speeches if they didn't know anything, they weren't familiar or anything like that. I do not deny anyone, and mostly respected representatives are entitled to their opinions, to their views, but I will repeat once again that in these negotiations as team leader, I have had constant and permanent coordination with representatives of the Croatian sugar industry. If each, every step that was happening in the negotiations meant from the initial part before the first, before the first round of negotiations until the fourth round where we practically negotiated, agreed and where I got, I would say the mandate of those whose survival is a question of life and prosperity. And it gave me the strength to perform, so I could negotiate. Once again, I repeat, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And the Croatian delegation did not sign what someone put on the table and came home. But they spoke very, very fiercely, negotiated and came again and again to a mutually satisfactory formulation. And I must remind myself of some of the facts some of our distinguished MPs unfortunately forgot. They may not have been so actively involved in this problem during that period, so I appreciate that they do not need to know because it is neither their specialty nor their question of survival. But you must know that in 2000, the European Commission made a unilateral decision allowing Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Albania to export sugar to the European Union without quota and without customs protection. Croatia did institutionalise this, but it was only transferred to the SAA, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, while it remained with those countries that unfortunately do not have an SAA as Serbia, Bosnia, Montenegro and Albania today. So without parole, I don't think it's a bad idea that the SPO was signed, though, that was necessary for the integration process. But it's not a merit, it's something that other countries have received by unilateral decision. And that's exactly what saved the Croatian sugar industry. No Madam Representative, no additional funds would have been able to save the county sweetener if it hadn't been for the opening of the market, the possibility of exporting, and we have respected that and should be respected when someone at a certain point helps you. And then you have to respect certain, I am free to say his reforms, his views, because without this one-sided not initiated by Croatia or Croatian representatives, but unilateral decisions have allowed the Croatian sugar industry to survive. And in this context, here I finally want to appeal once again to the honourable parliamentary representatives, and in the end as an extended hand of those who, for whom I am in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry, are also appealing to you by their letter to you and my conscience is calm because I have done something good for the Croatian state, for Croatian sugar producers and Croatian sugar producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79729	Thank you. Dear Vice President, MP Mato Arlovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79730	Mr. President, respected colleagues, it is not true that Mr. Minister that the European Union and its bodies have unilaterally made a decision on the export of Croatian sugar and sugar from the area, from the former Yugoslavia to the areas of the European Union without any incentive from the Croatian government in 2000. In 2000, the Croatian government raised the issue and obtained such agreement that it allowed it to sign such an agreement in negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. That's number one. And number two, you know, your statement is that we are now changing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and limiting export quotas... their own sugar, and the decision for others to export sugar from the European Union has not yet been changed and then they are in a privileged position compared to Croatian sugarcanes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79731	Second correction, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79732	That's right. It's not true that we didn't negotiate the SAA because it was being negotiated and we agreed an unlimited export quota and that's the fact that it's impossible, it wouldn't come to us, it just fell from the sky and so on. We have negotiated this well, and all those who have negotiated this need to be congratulated most sincerely. Unfortunately now what has happened is in some way a restriction and everything we have warned in the debate don't God let it really happen, but I believe that maybe this Protocol won't be confirmed after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79733	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this bill. Final proposal of the Act confirming the Protocol amending and supplementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States, of the other part, on the tariff quotas for sugar and sugar production originating in Croatia or in the Community. For this bill, 77 MPs are required. 77 MPs for. We have a colleague to vote on right now. Now just this moment. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 81 votes for and 14 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79736	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Here I will try to explain in the shortest lines this proposal to amend and supplement the State Support Act in agriculture, fisheries and forestry in a way that this is a technical harmonisation, that it is a alignment of certain support and that in certain segments we are going in the direction that for certain production, such as the need for the production of the diesel, we are going in the direction that the incentives on the oiled tail mean for that segment of human food production we separate from the part of the production of the oiled turnip for the production of the diesel and thus to improve the production of energy from renewable sources of energy, which is practically in line with what I was saying we are practically creating a legislative framework for the production of the biodiesel that is here, in this segment, we show that there are certain progress. When we talk about this, I would be free to tell these direct changes it is important to say that, compared to previous changes and additions, there have been some settlements, and among other things, the incentive to lie as a cartilage is increased to the level of wheat considered absolutely justified, that wheat is translated into livestock grain for a simple reason, because it is precisely something that is used for the feeding of cattle and that certain producers had a problem because they had to provide and display the reference yields, and because they kept it for their own needs in the livestock they could not maintain, they couldn't achieve the incentive and for these reasons we transfer the wheat to livestock grains, and thus they will, with their statement, confirm that they left it for their own needs. I already told you about the oil tail. Among other things, some new incentives are being introduced. Here's an example for peas. The fact that for the first time there was more serious pea production in Croatia, that there was more serious preparation and processing, and we want to continue because the fact that we are practically almost 100% of the peas that were in frozen condition imported everything and here only confected. We also had to make certain changes and harmonisations related to the promotion of bee communities and honey production because, by adopting the circumstances and accepting a certain amendment that had been made to the last law, I would say a particular vacuum and practically could not be implemented and the calculation of the incentives for honey could be carried out. In this context, we went to one I would say a more combined model where we allowed the owners of bee communities to or be honey producers to be able to determine whether they wanted to achieve an incentive per unit of kilograms, per honey or stay in the incentive system of the bee community. Also, one thing I'd say is the important thing we've done with these changes, and that's that we've increased the incentive for the calf system. We've made every effort to improve and increase the number of domestic bodies for it. Unfortunately, we haven't received adequate results. You know that in past changes, we've increased the incentive for this hero of domestic calves because it's our intensity. We don't need to... be on the basis of import calves and we want in every way to create an assumption that we provide material for the tov from our own production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, from the domestic bodies. In this context in Croatia, as well as analysing the effects of the operational programme for the development of bovine production where there is also the possibility of certain support and financial means for monitoring the calf system. Seeing that this programme does not go with the desired dynamics, we have come to the conclusion and in conversation with interested groups of agricultural producers that we should go towards increasing the incentive for this calf system and that this is something that would practically lead to the separation of dairy beef and to tow economy, and therefore we have taken into account the interest of interested producers and we have increased or rather doubled the incentive for the calf system from 1500 kuna to 3000 kuna, which is why we want to point out once again our interest in the state to provide domestic body material for domestic tov. In this context, too, we are going to change the proposal which, in past amendments and additions, has been related to the promotion of the production of fish products in a way that we want to separate by stage and level of processing. So, those products that are mainly small blue fish-based products. It means from freezing, fileting and similar, salting, fileting and other where exactly on the basis of that segment, as much as certain work is put into that product to be, accordingly, the height of the incentive and this way of favouring the same stages of finishing, which should practically lead to more added value of the product itself to greater employment. And it is this segment that I have to say that the processing of fish in this way records one constant very high growth rate, that this has become a serious production and that these productions are partly based on islands, meaning in areas where they are in the function of retaining the existing population, but also in areas of special state concern. Here's a Benkovac case where we have a very well-developed fish processing with great employment. And that's how we want to create a better framework for the higher stage of the small blue fish. And in that context, it's very important, here's that we separated it. I would also like to emphasise that this proposal is also fully coordinated with the stakeholders of those who are working on the processing of small blue fish and that we have agreed on this proposal and these amounts. And here, that's what he said I'd be the essence of these changes and additions. Perhaps in this context it is not bad to mention, because today I can point out, there have been a lot of specific questions whether, in accordance with our changing positions, we will increase certain incentives that we will not have financial resources in the budget to encourage these changes and additions to the previous ones. I can now say that all that is in line with the changes that have been made to those previous changes and additions that we have provided a financial framework through the redistribution of financial resources that will be in the government tomorrow, between the users of certain bodies of the state administration and that here we are that tomorrow we will have a redistribution of cca 220 million additional, of which 35 million internal redistribution between the items of the Ministry of Agriculture and 180 million redistribution between other bodies of the state administration. And that we finally have this item to encourage agricultural production, so that's the biggest point that we have since the initial which was in the 2006 budget of a billion 711 million will ultimately be increased to 2 billion and 88 million. Which is an increase of 377 million or a percentage that is something over 20% in one year we increased this item. And in total, when we analyze these three years from the final year that was in 2003, the same item was increased by almost 50%. In three years, more funds have been made because in 2003, something under a billion and 400 million kuna was paid on that basis. Now we come to 2 billion and 88 million kuna. Which has just created a certain assumption of greater competitiveness of products, agricultural products, primary production. And this, on the other hand, created the assumption that we have significantly changed the image of external trade in the part of agricultural and food products. And I can tell you that this year, although we don't have the data for 11 and 12 months, but by following these dynamics and knowing that we're going to end it again that the deficit reduction trend is going to continue. Because by 2004, we had an uplifting graph of the constant increase in deficits in part of the agricultural-food trade. That this graph began to fall in 2005. The trend continues even more favourable in 2006. That last year we would have ended up with 57.3.4% coverage of exports. And for this year, I can announce that we will be somewhere between 63% of the coverage of exports, which is, will be the biggest coverage of exports to the agricultural and food sector from independent Croatia. And knowing that the coverage of imports by export in the total trade in goods in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere over 47%. So we come by almost 20% higher coverage we have in the agricultural-food sector. And here, that's what we've just done. And with this trend of increasing between normal and other implementation of other strategic measures of operational programmes, I would say the creation of favourable financial frameworks for the development of certain production by way of strategic development of agriculture, one designed way, by investing in other projects. Here's the best indicator of the competitiveness of some production is the external trade balance. I am free to announce to this respected House that I expect that in 2007 we will follow and speak responsibly these trends that in 2007 we will continue these trends significantly higher export increases than import increases, reflecting the greater coverage of imports by exports. And not to be longer, that I expect that in 2007, the term of office means we will end up somewhere more than 70% of the coverage of exports, which will indeed, we will actually be able to say that we have balanced the external trade balance when we know just how much we need or how much food we eat in Croatia goes for the needs of tourism. And tourism is also one form of exports, but without crossing the border, a very good form of exports. When all this is combined then we will be able to say that Croatia has a positive external balance in the agricultural-food sector. But without tourism, we will come to more than 70% coverage of imports by export. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79737	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I don't think it's necessary to present inaccuracies and that we're all together aware that neither you, nor your ministry or this government are anxious to settle the debts that have been made and paid by law against incentives and support this year. For example. Added support in six months, nothing. For milk...... For the first six months yes, the other six months nothing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please nice, I... Wait a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For milk, we're already at 120 days, we're going for 150 days. You expect the peasants to produce no support at all. For war cultures, it's a question of when and how and how. For income support as much as you have demands that you don't even discuss, and they don't pay off which ones are finished. For rural development as much as you should, and as much as you can. Let's be serious. If we need 500 million, and we've got 180 million, so let's face it, 350 won't be paid, and I've said it mildly. Let's count for God's sake. Minister, not like this, just say it will all be paid. I agree with you that you don't have more opportunities, it's your handicap and mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79739	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary with your associates. So here we are positively assessing the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy. In fact, our bill of law was really short and it had one intention, and that was that our beekeepers didn't stay this year without incentive. It should be acknowledged that the ministry has made one failure and that, in fact, according to the existing law, our beekeepers were unable to achieve neither in this nor in that way an incentive. It was simply not possible to satisfy honey producers or to pay them off by adopting amendments and supplementing the law. The intention that it was, I wouldn't be commenting on it right now if it were suitable for the redeemers in one way or another, obviously failed and a certain effort had to be made. We have come to the initiative of our beekeepers on associations that have negotiated with the rest of the ministry, came to our belief and the results that we gained during the negotiations, that the old way of incentives that exist before this adoption of the amendments and the addition has made a certain step where small beekeepers, so these producers came to their own because it was by means of a certain amount of bee communities an incentive that they should receive and it had already paid off. On the side of how many professional services, advisory services, and all those who needed to do so were willing to do so, how many abuses there were and how, but it was possible to accomplish. And now our initiative here has now been transformed into part of our law to amend and supplement the Law on Incentives to State Support for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry in a modified way. I must now say on behalf of the two proposings that we, in fact, do not now insist on our proposal until the end and agree with the promoter in a way because the beekeeping community has finally come to the knowledge that it is possible to meet stakeholders, means that both small and those who have already moved away and are in the goods production, to achieve a certain incentive and that the economic justification of that production is at a certain level. It should be said that our initiative has also gone to meet and meet producers regardless of the different opinions and way of proposing the project itself. And now it's so insignificant are the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry that it shouldn't have waited here by the end of the year. It's also questionable now how many of our administrations as they are, the others we don't have, will be able to make a step and actually please the team. But here it is. And Mr. President, if I can comment on this previous bill, and I think it's allowed, but since I have word that we're actually assessing a certain effort. However, we expect, but we sincerely expect the promotion of beekeeping and the promotion of livestock farming, warfare and all the branches that depend on incentives to be paid off. Believe me, postponing some branch of agricultural production puts in an uninvited position and in fact all the accumulation that is created if the incentives don't come it melts, because the repromaterial, the cost of investment in agriculture don't wait and they grow enormously and therefore appeal to the ministry and that's why it was my reaction, let's admit and be real people for agriculture and the rest of the ministry needs more funds, they have to be fast and efficient, those 60 days would have to be respected and then as much would be if prices don't satisfy, at least this part where the state guarantees their share, means that they're fast, transparent. And if someone is reacting to that, it's just me that we've given the operational plans good indications for production and we're not following them in a way that voluntary support speaks to a part of it, but also in the part where capital support is simply forgetting because it's not being paid because there's not a lot of funding. With us, the investment boom is so big in the country, and certain facilities, farms, shelters are being built, and I don't know what they're called, that our resolution ministry because of the restrictions on funds is not able to track it. We here should all, as a Parliament, make an additional effort to make really those who invest, who deal with goods production a priority and make it all expensive to pay. Here, I think this is quite said that we accept the motion that we engage in this law that goes according to emergency procedure and that we intend to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79741	Thank you very much. Correction Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad my colleagues will support this law, but I have to correct an incorrect assumption. As far as I'm concerned... Just one, enough. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As for the fact that when it was about four and a half pounds [4 and a half pounds] of honey, the beekeepers were encouraged to wish to please the redeemers, which is not true. And here for the sake of the Croatian public, I have to read one promotion from the Ministry of Agriculture since 14 February 2006, where 3 proposals for possible incentives have been agreed. So when the ministry was talked to, 4 to 5 kuna per kilogram of honey paid directly to beekeeper, which is the logic of things under the Law of Incentives. 200 kuna per hive for small beekeepers as a biological contribution and 30 kuna per queen. Together, the fight against the grey economy was signed by Mr. Zlatko Gregacevic, the president of the group at the HGK and the president of the Croatian beekeeper's Union Martin Kranjec, who soon after that changed his mind and brought the minority all living together against such an incentive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79743	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is in debate on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79744	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the ministry, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Well, I'm glad we're discussing this. First of all, he's doing this real thing to help a farmer. There are exceptions, but I think we can freely say and realize that perhaps these people who are dealing with agriculture are probably at this point, in this country in the worst situation. The more they do, the less they have. Secondly, I would also like to repeat the requirement for some cultures to be closely monitored. Here, first of all, I think of tomatoes, which is what we would say in Istria. And I argue that if some farmers, mainly from Bujština, or the Umag area, were followed today by vineyards in the country, or as olive groves are accompanied so that they could also create a representative brand and that our people who deal with this branch could bring gold medals to Croatia. What does this Law bring? Well, first of all, we need to quote this on page 1. Here you can state the basic amendments and additions to the law. So, given that in previous amendments, the wheat incentive has increased to 2 thousand 250 kuna, this proposal equilibrates the incentive for rye as pears with wheat incentive. The wheat has been transferred from bread to other cereals. Then, we see that an incentive is being introduced for the oil rape, for the production of biodiesel if users sell the oilseed rape and deliver it to the processing plant for the production of biodiesel. Encouragement for the production of peas has been introduced, there is a clearer right of obligations to achieve incentives for declared fruit material, an incentive has been introduced for vines, etc., etc. However, I report to this occasion that it would put an emphasis on two problems. First of all, it is the rise of a hectare of vineyards followed by 33.6 thousand kuna or 45 thousand 400 kuna in areas with more difficult conditions of rejuvenation. These are visible significant amounts, it should be so, I just have the impression that as people have decided to plant these vineyards because of this 0,0 measure that they will quickly begin to cramp them and simply such a policy does not lead to anything. But later on, let me go back to that or that industrial tomato, that is, to the pomadors. In Appendix 4, vegetables for industrial processing, it is monitored or donated with 3 thousand 900 kuna per hectare. When it comes to industrial tomatoes, we at the IDS Club suggest that this tomato be monitored or subsidized by 30 limes per kilogram. So, what's the problem? The problem is that about half a year ago, perhaps a little less Podravka from Koprivnica announced or indicated the suspension of the production of pomadors in Umag. I hope it doesn't come to that. I hope it comes, I hope it won't happen to move the production of pomadors from Umag, and if migration should occur then there should be a clear migration of production plants to the industrial zone in Umag. The city of Umag is ready to settle for 99 years for a kuna needed land in an industrial, clear, zone. Among other things, subdue some municipal detachments, etc., all with the aim of not destroying 100 large producers of that culture in Istria, Croatia. Before, I don't know, it may have been 7, no more than 10 days in a conversation with the Deputy Prime Minister has been promised that "Podravka" is interested, so, for moving production to an industrial zone in the area of Umag, which on the other hand opens up space to freely dispose from 3 to 4 hectares, I claim the most attractive land on the western coast of Istria, and then it's probably also in the Republic of Croatia. They, as Mr Polancec said, are willing to continue to buy tomatoes among other things, but the production would be eligible for compensation, i.e., the plants would give way to workers and producers. Now, that's all right, but where's the problem? The problem is this law. A farmer in Istria can't produce pomidores, so he can't deliver it per kilogram, for 30 limes. Up until now, it's been paid for that kilo of 70 limes. So that's the difference between those 40s and maybe 30 or 50 lipes someone needs to cover. With 30 lips, we suggest that the state participates through incentives, that with 10 lips the county participates, with 10 lips to participate in the City of Umag. And so we would come to maintain this 100-year tradition of industrial tomato production, which extends, from old Austria, through Italy, Yugoslavia, and it would be a shame to shut down the same in the modern Republic of Croatia. The more the total income or traffic of Podravka in a year, if I'm not mistaken, the more than 2 billion kuna. And we've been going so far with this amendment for a 30-lype industrial tomato. So it's about cca 2, maybe 2 and a half, not more than 3 million kunas that should be found on one side of the state, the county, or the City of Umag. That's one minimum amount, and I think if we're wise in the end we'll go that way and make a decision. I said once again, the City of Umag and now encourages fruit material, is ready to give land for nothing or for 99 years for 1 kuna a year, build infrastructure, free the builder of municipal compensation and in some way enter into the property structure itself. Just today, at the beginning of three o'clock somewhere, I know that Mr. Polancec talked about this topic and I want to believe that maybe the model of saving the factory will be made public but without encouraging the peasant, we will not save the peasants. In one word, I don't think we should punish peasants at this point, we should encourage them to continue investing in their machines. Some of them invested over 500,000 euros in machinery. We need to encourage them to work on the ground, not to raise their hands from production and to think that tomorrow their land will urbanize and that they will start to trample with that country from peasants to sort of turn into a land butcher or builder. That's what I was gonna say. I point out once again that Mr. Polancec has kind of encouraged me. I said, today's the meeting. Everything that's been discussed should be published, everything should be put on paper but nothing will happen again unless we give the peasant one 30, 40 lip incentive for the manufactured kilo of tomatoes. Without that, I don't think she's gonna be okay. Just before, Mrs. Dorotea Pesic Bukovac explained to me what it looks like about when a housewife or someone else comes to the "Conzum" where they can get 400 grams in a can of some "Rial" pellata means, pomidora for 99 lipa. So, it's a clean pomidor, I don't know what's already being prepared, pased, driven, imported from Italy to Croatia, put on these, what's called shelves, drawers, there should be some in the tin in which it's all stored and it's sold to gentlemen for 99 lip. 99 limes, 400 grams of tomato produced. Now, how will our peasant manage to compete without incentive and we know that the Italians are very much incentivizing their production of pomidors. It simply means, without a law like this, a peasant cannot survive without encouragement. Which is why I want to publicly protest this when "Podravka" is not sure whether it was 6.7 or 9 months from Umag exported machines for the processing of tea or more in Slovenia. No one, of course, would have objected and that someone had transferred these machines to Koprivnica but imagine one income line was transferred to no other country. What I'm also glad to see is a lavender with 14 thousand kuna per hectare. It's a commendable initiative. Oil turnip for production was an elevator with 2 thousand 550 kuna. This is where these seedlings, etc., with slightly larger resources, are encouraged by fishermen, cattlemen, etc. But we see clearly in this law that logic is in war cultures. It's probably logical because most people live right from agriculture in the areas of war cultures. If it wasn't simple, that peasant in Slavonia would have been destroyed. But also, gentlemen, don't give up on those people who work in the production of industrial tomatoes in Umag or in the area of Istria. Lastly, what do I know, what else do I say here? Fishing should be encouraged as well. It's a good thing we have these provisions. We'll be talking about ZERP soon. And come out and meet me and solve this problem of industrial tomatoes. What is also interesting to know, that despite the incentives of some of our winemakers in Istria, I can specify specifically, now Dorotea has brought me this request by Katunar Frank, submitted a request for certain incentives and it is about 30.3.2006. no, 27.2.2006. but the clear incentives under this law have not yet been paid. I don't know what the procedure is, but I think peasants with incentives should be given to peasants, incentives should be properly understood. All in all the law is useful, the law should be supported but I State Secretary, I really pray that I do not know, through the Government's amendments if you do not want to accept the IDS amendment, allow to encourage the planting of these, and industrial tomatoes, these pomadors and not to put out a century-old tradition in that Istrian space.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79745	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79746	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as it addresses important issues of state support in these activities. The reform of agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia began with the adoption of the Law on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry, in July 2002, continued to be operationally implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. During 2000, the Ministry held a thorough debate on the implementation of the State Support Act in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry with state support users. The beneficiary of the support pointed out that they are having difficulties in achieving the right to support because they have the means of supporting the spoils of various activities, that the amount of incentives for individual production is needed and that more effective and simpler application of the law needs to be made possible. The Government therefore ensures that the proposed law removes the observed difficulties in law enforcement and introduces new incentives. The provisions of Article 1 of the proposal of this law provide that State budget resources intended for the implementation of the Agricultural, Fisheries and Forestry Act can exclusively be used to promote production and promote structural policy measures and cannot be used to collect any charges. The other amendments and additions to the applicable law shall deal with the following significant issues. When encouraging war cultures, the rye incentive is equated with the wheat incentive and increases from a thousand 650 kuna to 2 thousand 250 kuna per hectare. This incentive will contribute to the greater production of this cartilage whose use in food is on the rise. The wheat is classified as other cereals because the production is mainly intended for the feeding of cattle and is maintained in the holdings. It's mostly not on the market. The incentive for this production will now amount to a thousand 250 kuna per hectare. An incentive is being introduced, a new incentive for oil rape, for the production of bio-diesell with 2 thousand 550 kuna per hectare, which is an increase of 200 kuna per hectare from the current oil incentive. This incentive will only be paid for the production of oil rapes sold and delivered for the production of bio-diosel. Incentives for the production of peas for industrial processing are introduced, which should help reduce the imports of peas and increase domestic production. Incentives of fruit materials make certain rights and obligations of achieving incentives for declared fruit material clearer. This prevents the payment of incentives for imported fruit material or, in simple words, the smuggling with the fruit material that was booming with us, the goods were imported from abroad and sold nicely and also harvested the incentive. Encouragement is introduced for the category of vines certified with 4 kuna per piece and the incentive for annual payments for the parent of vines is abolished. Certainly, the most significant changes are which are proposed by this law incentivising livestock farming. A new model of incentives is being introduced for heroes. Incentives are being increased for the over-indulgenced hero from domestic breeding from a thousand kunas to a thousand, 800 kunas and simplifies the way in which the incentives for this hero are achieved and introduces a single payment at the end of the load. In doing so, I would like to stress that the current 800 kuna-a-greet incentive, which remains in force for the farming of imported calves, is now a new incentive that encourages domestic production and domestic production of calves from domestic production almost twice as large as it has been increased from a thousand to a thousand, 800 kuna. Also, there is an increase in incentives for a cow-body system with a thousand 500 kuna per throat to 3,000 kuna. It should not be explained much that this is a more positive incentive, i.e. for areas with more difficult management conditions from 2 000 kunas per throat to 3 thousand kuna per throat. This is a significant incentive to stimulate domestic breeding cattle and under-judgment. calves which will contribute to the reduction of imports of breeding heifers and calves. The method of achieving an incentive in beekeeping is prescribed so that the incentive is achieved for bee communities with 50 kuna per piece and honey with 2.2 kuna per kilogram with a limit of quantity to 40 kuna per hive. The significant change introduced by law is also about fishing incentives. The way fish are processed depends on the degree and complexity of fish processing. For a more complex way of processing the amount of the unit incentive is higher than the amount of incentives for a less complex way of processing fish. The single incentive for all four proposed groups of fish products has been significantly increased. In the first group there are 4 kunas and 70 limes per kilogram of fish products and in the area with difficult management conditions of 6,20 kuna per kilogram of fish products. These incentives will create favourable conditions for the development of a higher level of fish processing into products that will be competitive on the market. When encouraging organic production, the type of incentives and the organic production incentives are in line with the incentives for conventional production and are 30 % higher. This is in any case a significant incentive for this type of i.e. for organic production and will certainly find a part of the manufacturer to focus on certain products that are so significantly encouraged. In accordance with the proposed amendments to this law, the Annexes 2 and 3 to the law which are annexed and an integral part of the law are amended. It is important to point out that all users of the incentives they applied for in 2006 are allowed to exercise their rights in accordance with the proposed amendments. The implementation of this law does not require additional resources in 2006. The implementation of the law will be carried out on the burden of the already selected resources of the state budget within the division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, which, if necessary, will redistribute the funds from their division. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure so that it can enter into force on 1 January 2007 so that the prescribed rights can be implemented in time and that no economic disturbances occur. As regards the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry proposed by MPs Ivan Kolar and Bozidar Pankretić, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposed Law on the grounds that this law proposes only to resolve the incentives for beekeeping, and this law which we support, i.e. the Croatian Club, representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, all of them and most of the incentives are solved in a different and quality way. Mr. Vice President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79747	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79748	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have yet another amendment to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry. I think that these amendments and additions could be freely referred to as their kind of fire measures, unfortunately, to correct under-thinking solutions in previous laws. As representatives of Mr. Kolar and myself, motivated by these under-thinking solutions concerning support for certain products, we have submitted a proposal here specifically for beekeepers to amend and supplement. I think so far we have spoken many times, and even at the plenary session, that it is necessary to pass a comprehensive law on state aid in agriculture, of course based on regionalisation of agricultural production. Before that, on the basis of which professional and other bases are proposed certain incentives, certain cultures, certain changes in production in the current amendments to this law. We, based on this law, have so far on the basic law three amendments and additions, one revision of the law and now we propose the fourth amendments. About how we ourselves and especially our peasants can manage these laws and do not need to speak specifically. I must say that in measures, in particular in this part, I cannot and do not say that there are concrete changes that must certainly be welcomed. I am primarily pleased that the Ministry has adopted the proposals that we have made so far, especially in the beef production part of the cow system, the calf and the duplication of that incentive because I think it will certainly have a positive effect on the future of cattle production, especially in the direction of this hero, and that if we have to be aware that today's situation is unsustainable today, the producer in cattle farming is the one who is definitely dependent on imports. I don't know if there's official and accurate data, but according to some estimates today, there's almost over 90% of imported bodies in the batch, and that's something that's unsustainable. The measures that have shown themselves, which are related to increased incentives, with domestic calves, I must say that they have produced certain results. We see that some companies have put a large number of calves domestically into this. Of course, the inspection measures have their results, but I honestly believe that this measure will make a more significant contribution in the future to have domestic breeding and ton-heroes as it was 15 years ago. I think this measure is indisputable in that part. But I wouldn't mention it here. I had to say this, given that I am here, and I personally stood directly for these measures. However, I will not refer to certain changes because I think that some changes should not be spoken of but I will speak in principle and what I think has to be done so far. I think it is not good that at the end of its term, this government is going with such changes to the fourth law, because if we are not aware that the challenge that we are all talking about, which we are all talking about, is the challenge of the European Union, the adaptation of our system, I think we are in great error. I would be much happier if today we could discuss here instead of this Support Act which would be in principle similar to that of which the European Union has been implemented many times and often wants to compare, but in some things, we are not going to those steps that we should take. All those I personally talked to when, when we touched on these topics and when we started talking about what Croatia would have to do to adapt its support system to the European Union support system, I was warned of the most fundamental fact that it was a long-term job. That this job will require not a year, two days at least, at least to adapt in that part. I am afraid that since the Ministry did not go into this, I would say a very important reform and that in this reform we are still not actively working to come into a situation that would be very awkward and I have to say it here, God forbid we are accidentally admitted to the European Union in 2009 because in the segment concerning agriculture we would be totally unprepared and we could not respond to those challenges that the European Union is imposing. In that part, I think thinking about the support that we'd go through the economy is something that we all seriously need to put before us, we need to take the shots. We need to define the reference years, we need to define in this way certain and production quotas and set that system in a way that already works in the European Union. I'm afraid it's definitely that the government has no answers to these questions and that it deals with cosmetics, fire measures, here certain changes that I can't say are not necessary. But in any case, they don't lead to that reform procedure needed in agriculture. Which is why I'm saying this part. I think he's extremely important. I think it will answer all those questions that will be raised about agriculture today in our country, and what I would say most to us is what I have been talking about recently in this House and that is our overall situation in the country. I don't think any more monitoring of agriculture that would be isolated from the overall environment would be good. I think we need to observe the entire rural space. That's why I'm always sorry and I think it's also a certain obligation to come before this debate and we here and this year it's almost over here I'd say the last law that comes from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy for this year. We didn't have a green report in front of us that was objectively in the Agriculture Act to analyze what was well done, which wasn't well done. We can believe or not believe the very optimistic statement made by Mr. Minister just before here that the almost import export balance is balanced and that if we add up this tourism there seems to be an exact zero. I'd be overjoyed if it were true. But I can't figure out where you got it from. We'd have to elaborate it well because you know for a fact that almost a little less than two billion dollars will be imports this year, a billion nine hundred and something. Exports of course grew in absolute amounts not at the level of such an increase in imports. We're still in. I'd say a certain higher deficit. If we say it together, he's still in the part that's been dealing with a lot. I'm glad when you said that our exports are growing, but you're aware that that export was also... to connect it a little to the previous point of well-connected to the export of sugar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that we limit ourselves in a certain way, we will see how much that and in our balance sheet of this negative in the future will affect. However, to return to this part where I think it is necessary to very quickly access very clear analyses of the overall state in rural space. It's obvious, and I think we'll all agree together that the state of the country, so in our common rural space it's extremely difficult, that every day we almost have to say it so vividly that there are no more smokes, not because of what they've introduced gas or what's heating up on electricity, but because there's no one there anymore. That's also evident by statistical indicators. Here's one survey that is based on the latest statistical indicators of 183 villages in Croatia is empty. 2408 has less than a hundred inhabitants, and of which 6 thousand and some villages in Croatia almost have a situation for less than 300 people to live in two-thirds. This trend, if it continues, will be devastating for Croatia. We'll come to a situation where unfortunately we won't have people in rural space, and I believe we'll get into an awkward situation. Therefore, I think that future measures, and one of the most direct future measures, must go through the Support Act. It must be directed in that section to agricultural producers who are certainly ready to cope with the challenges put before them, and then with competitiveness in that part. But a series of measures that need to be introduced in any case will refer to rural space, to the village, to the retention of the population in that village, to a series of measures I believe in the future should be moved from perhaps some other ministries to the Ministry of Agriculture that would be involved in development. I believe that all here colleagues and colleagues believe that it would be extremely bad for us to live in Croatia in four cities in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split, and that in our villages only weeds grow or God forbid other plants that harm us and health. In any case, I don't see that with any of these revisions of this law we've contributed to this overall reflection we can say these are purely fire measures that certainly don't contribute to this, given that this is the end of this government's mandate. So it's hard not to think about it because at the end of the term, it's hard to say that some changes can be made. So, there has been a mandate in which it has not been more serious about the reform system, where it has not been more serious about reform procedures, where there has not been a more serious adjustment, and I think a lot of work will be for the future government that will come and that will have to take over one difficult job again, and I would say especially in the reform segment but also a total of rural space in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79749	Thank you. We have two corrections, Mr. Marco Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79750	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MP Pankretic cited several incorrect allegations in his presentation, and let me correct only one, so I will quote. The proposed measures proposed by the law are fire-fighting. That's not true, of course. The law proposes measures that systematically change incentives and create conditions for the growth of domestic production, and now I could count from these heroes where incentives grow 80%. The calf system where the incentives grow 100%. A new way of encouraging more complex fish processing processes, etc. Incentive of production was diesel and string, a number of other products that are encouraged by far larger amounts, but of course in some other way that is described in detail in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79751	Thank you. Correction Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79752	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the incorrect assumption that these are electoral amendments and additions to the Law on Encouragement in Agriculture, i.e. about the support in agriculture and that they are the fourth, and that they are fire and that they are cosmetic. This is absolutely incorrect because the first amendments and additions to the basic law were passed at the pre-election time in 2003 to cloud their eyes. The second thing, these are the third changes that benefit Croatian farmers who will benefit them and who in some segments have been doubled twice as they have been so far. So please don't deceive the public!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79753	It can't be on behalf of the promoter. After the debate. This is now the correction of an incorrect quote. It is Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's turn on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79754	Dear Vice President, distinguished gentlemen from the ministry, I hope he's nearby and the minister will hear little of my criticism and approach. Because I have to say that the National Minority Club supports this law. But I have to join those who will say that the measures are really cosmetic. Because really having a few acres of rye is more or less with 200 kunas more or less is nothing more than cosmetics. But if they had the positives anyway, I'll tell you about it later. But I must again call on the Minister of Agriculture to violate the Agricultural Law, that the second time this year changes the Law on Encouragements, and that in parallel in three years this Parliament has not discussed the situation in agriculture. Not to repeat that unfortunately green report we talked about here. Then we would know how much we produce, then we would know for sure what measures so far have had to do with certain productions and certain cultures. And surely what our future is in exporting certain cultures. Or, yes, today we've almost lost all day to talk about one culture in exports, but we've neglected and we've underestimated our companion on the other. And I have to say that obviously he knows our production better than we do, because if we knew her today, we certainly wouldn't talk like that. Or perhaps you'd better say that we've really discussed the state of our agriculture, that we've had a sub-strategic green report, then surely no one today could wave some other to God- relevant data that everyone claims to be the real source. Then behind the data that would be discussed here would be the government. And we would certainly know that, unfortunately, 30,000 acres is the upper limit of sugar beet production. Because it's not that we don't want to increase it. But gentlemen, 30 thousand acres of respect... is the mobilization of 120,000 hectares that must be prepared for production of these 30,000 hectares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is 180 thousand on average really sugar production and underestimating our partner's saying we are still trying to claim that our export options are higher, while not counting on it to be a strategic product, so that no serious country would allow itself to fully and fully make its own conditive industry, but also leave the consumer's needs on sugar imports. And I'm still going to caricate so much further interesting that all we're importing is garbage, but only on sugar we want to base our entire production. I think we need to think about rhetoric sometime. And we're down with rhetoric because we really lack data. And once again I will blame the Ministry of Agriculture, I will not go any further. I'm going back to incentives. I will repeat that Europe really gives its peasants the same or even less. Somewhere in roughly 330 euros per hectare. That when we include all the incentives that the village has, these incentives are on average 360 to 370 euros. But in Europe, exactly, I repeat what I once said, they know calculations from what the rent for land is or how much it costs to buy land, to what it costs one technology, from fuel, fertilisers, seeds to protection funds. And then it cannot happen to offer one Parliament to encourage in this case an oily rape with 2 thousand 550 kuna when it comes to biodiesel. I wish there was a minister here so he could answer me what kind of oilseed production he'd expect with such incentives. Whether those 2 poor tones that we have produced or below 2 tonnes, or we would like to bring at least approximately technology closer today to what Europe is producing, which is 4 tons of oil rape per hectare, which is then certainly profitable, profitable and which can certainly then compete and enter the biodiesel. And that's why I welcome that we finally start talking about biodiesel, that we're finally really setting aside the oil tail for the production of biodiesel, but surely with 2 thousand 550 kuna per hectare it's not possible to move to the production that we need. We even reduced the crop this year to 8,000 acres from 15 thousand hectares, just because we encouraged all cultures, but not the olives that unfortunately we have to encourage and far more. And one more thing, we've already built a diesel plant. The other day, I'm sorry, the minister was laying a cornerstone for the production of another 30,000 tons if I'm not wrong about biodiesel. But gentlemen, it's only going to be a biodiesel on the import line. Because I'm going back to that. A ton of biodiesel takes one hectare under the oiled tail. If we're almost there right now and we're building somewhere roughly 50,000 tons of biodiesel production, then we're at this point no less than 40 thousand acres under the oiled tail. And with 2 thousand 550 kuna per hectare, believe me, we won't be able to move anywhere near 10 thousand hectares in the near future. And so, I'm just talking about having no calculations again, we don't know what we want again, we don't have production strategies, we're talking about biodiesel, and we know that in 2010, it's very binding. The more we do not want to negotiate in 2000 and be in the European Union, the more we really hope to be in the European Union in 2010 when we need to have a renewable, or to say alternative, part of alternative biofuels 5.75%. And it's not total energy, it's only in transport. And we don't even have a liter of our own at this point, or we have it produced on imported oil, so I don't count it as ours. And so I would really like to call once again to take seriously the renewables strategy because if we were serious at this time, we would also be entitled to 70 to 80 euros per hectare for production in the non-food chain, which would certainly improve the production of oilseed rape intended for biodiesel. However, we did not even run in the European Union's agricultural programme, or predicted that Croatia could also direct some of its agricultural areas into the non-food chain. And by doing that, we've made it even harder for ourselves, which I said was very bad, and I'm still saying that we don't have our own bio-elevator, I say. I think that we must continue to stimulate and make sure that our subsidies are not only, or incentives, not only incentives per hectare but that we finally really take care and that incentives encourage more productive producers, or that the subsidy is not just a fixed amount. She must be tied to the hectare. We're still making the same mistake, we're not doing anything, we haven't learned anything from our neighbors or neighbors of Austrians who encourage it to be always a hectare, but it binds to technology. Is it that many tons per hectare or is it more than technology that then has more incentives. I think it's high time we started thinking about such a system, too, because I'm afraid that more than 2 billion going to agriculture do not produce the results that such incentives would have to give in view of how many hectares we have in production. I certainly welcome the return of incentives to bee communities because we have a lot, I will call them in quotes "hubby producers", but these are serious producers still for the market, today joined through cooperatives and which very often, quantifiedly difficult to achieve their incentives. And therefore, the possibility of giving choices to determine whether per kilogram or per bee community certainly stimulates a large number of small ones, but which are not negligible when it comes to the honey market. And once again, even though I said at the beginning that we would support these incentives, no matter what I say, we consider them cosmetic and we expected that there would be more serious changes in incentives. We will support them, but I don't think this ministry should end the term of office without really submitting to this Parliament a report on the situation in agriculture, not submitting a report on what and what quality of incentives and what effects such incentives have had. Because it's the only way to upgrade the quality of mastering and rural space. Equally, implementing land policy because working on your mind, repairing certain laws twice a year will obviously not be an effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79755	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79756	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the motionary. I have to say that we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP are actually thinking about how to vote in the first place on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support. It is likely that our decision to vote will depend on the debate on the one hand and on the other hand on whether or not to accept the amendments submitted to these Bills. Why? First, we have to say for principle reasons. We believe it is high time to stop wandering in the field of state aid policy in the Republic of Croatia. Because what and how else to interpret is the fact that this is the fourth amendment and the addition of the law to one correction, on the one hand. On the other hand, at the same time, something is happening that is almost incredible to us. To introduce new product types per unit of incentive or delete existing depending on year to year. So then we had the amendments to the Law in 2002, 2003, 2004 now in 2006, and the second time in 2006, and in addition to what is most interesting we at the end of 2006 are bringing amendments and additions to the Law that ensure the payment of incentives for certain products to be provided for 2006. So the redistribution of funds in the 2006 budget, and in such a situation, it actually shows something that is very interesting. That we had very bad plans for the 2006 budget, that we had bad plans for incentives and state support for 2006. Because here, it happened that there was some money left that wasn't spent, and now we have to redistribute it, and then we're trying to satisfy certain categories of manufacturers to ensure these incentives. The second question that we are really asking is that some of these measures are in fact palitative measures that put out fire in certain segments, but they do not solve the problem and in this respect we agree with our colleague heard that they are also cosmetic. This should therefore lead to a more serious and responsible approach to state policy planning in the field of state support, agriculture, fisheries and forestry. The third question that is related to this is the question when, in essence, our incentives, in content, not only in a formal and legal sense, will be brought into line with European, European Union regulations, but in a substantive sense. In the end, the incentive will be an even unit to stimulate hectare, but of course it depends not only on the hectare but also on the amount of product to be produced. Quality and of course technology to be applied. Therefore, these are our 3.4, and I fully consider them to be justifiable and principled remarks that should be taken into account in any case. Now allow a few remarks that we must say and individual natures that also show that we are in an area where ad hoc measures are trying to solve in fact pragmatically individual issues, and even benefit certain types of products and services depending on the degree of dissatisfaction of social structures that perform and the activities and accession of these social structures in the pre-election section. For example, the government says it does not accept the draft law amending and supplementing the law of counterparts Bozidar Pankretic and colleagues Ivan Kolar. Now, it's amazing how she doesn't accept it when, at the same time, she's assembling this idea from that law in her bill of law. Therefore, we agree with the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, that is, colleagues of Kolara who said they were willing to withdraw this Bill proposal, given that this issue is being resolved in the Law, but it is not true that it was not accepted but actually that incentive, this Law proposal in the first reading also initiated a final amendment to this Bill proposal. Because in the light of the bill itself, the Government's opinion is that it cannot be accepted among other things because it is a new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry which is here before us. Of course, our next observation to us on the one hand is a rather interesting, interesting question and, on the other hand, a bit odd. Of course we look forward to being provided for the first time this year in the budget to encourage the production of biodiesel. We are also looking forward to providing incentives for oil rape as one of the raw materials that needs to be provided for the production of biodiesel. But dear colleagues and colleagues, let's meet now with the naked facts and with the reality that exists in the Republic of Croatia. Not only do we not have the right productivity or oil rape per hectare for the production of biodiesel, but it is the fact that we now produce biodiesel in Ozli from import raw materials, neither of course waste raw materials in the Republic of Croatia, and in such a situation the question is raised, and what are we going to encourage? We will encourage the import of oilseed rapes and at the same time produced biodiesel which is even more interesting for the export market because we do not actually have it in our place to place it, nor do we have in our pumps secured appliances to ensure that biodiesel is poured, nor have we passed a special regulation on the obligation to use biodiesel, which, for economic reasons and at the same time, encouraged it to be used in transport in the Republic of Croatia. So something that makes a man ask himself a question, and in fact, why does this incentive now appear? Obviously, this incentive arises as an attempt to create a habit of producing oily tails in this respect and that this oily tail begins to be produced, i.e. to process it into biodiesel, of course in plants that are already working or in those that will work like the new factory, which among other things is the cornerstone for its construction in Vukovar, i.e. in the area of Vukovar, I set up a minister. Of course, we look forward to these new plants and we are looking forward to these factories, it is extremely good, it will provide new jobs, it will provide new technologies, and it will also provide energy substitution for us, etc., therefore it is all important and important and we support it, but we believe that there must be a policy in that section that will actually ensure growth and development, not only growth and development, but at the same time encourage certain activities and structures that... and that is why we believe that the principle note with which we agree on behalf of the club of national minorities colleagues Chuhnil directs part of the agricultural area into a non-food chain, that is, the production of industrial plants for such activities is very important, and in this context a particular question opens up when are we actually going to create means to promote the release of hectares for possible agricultural production? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, too many agricultural hectares we have which are mined, which are abandoned and rooted and which should lead to agricultural production and, among other things, this industrial plant that should provide, for example, for the production of biodiesel, that is, raw materials for the production of biodiesel in our country. In this regard, we do not seem to be able to reach a green branch because a segmentary approach is constantly being made to a segment, the overall interest of the Republic of Croatia in a particular part of it is not considered, and in this respect it is particularly important to highlight this from the SDP Representatives Club, in particular, that agriculture should not be the residual size in economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia, as often occurs in terms of the economic policy that is proposed. Agriculture must be one of the stone development or cornerstones of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, especially in areas such as Slavonia, such as Baranja and like northern Croatia for a simple reason because there are natural resources for the development of this activity. At the same time, we need to be aware that we have to raise productivity in the area of agriculture to a higher level, and we need to make sure that fewer employees are per hectare in order to actually raise productivity to a higher level, but that in itself means that we have to create opportunities for agricultural products as a semi-product or as a raw material basis, we can place ourselves with us to a higher level of production that we will raise through the food industry, chemical and each other, or other industry, which will serve as a raw material base and there solve the problem and excess unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, which will open these new plants naturally and new jobs and employment on the one hand, and at the same time create certain types of products that will have as a product on both domestic and foreign markets. In this respect, it is a commendable idea that we have finally accepted the idea that some of us have advocated here for several years in this Parliament and not only in this Parliament on the production and attempt to create biodiesel, but we are concerned about something else, that we have not, in parallel with this, brought the Bio diesel Act which will, in fact, have Austria, as it has Germany or implementing regulations, regulate it, which will ensure the promotion of biodiesel, which will ultimately ensure its production and ultimately provide something that is very important for other sources, raw materials sources to produce oil and when there is more expensive oil prices on the market, then oil will be sold, and not when demand is large, and not from it will make biodiesel, unless the state stimulates it to actually provide an adequate replacement for the energy products that should be dealt with in this respect, and therefore we should be able to take into account and ensure this issue in a strategic way. We must also say that we are happy to begin to increase the incentives for freshwater fish, but there are now great remarks in this regard to... We think, first of all, that in addition to these incentives that are indicated around fish, it should begin to discuss incentivise the other production of shrimp meat, shrimp, or crabs, etc., so it is also to consider producing certain other species such as frogs, etc. and snails that can and should be placed in domestic production, which exports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to take great care of this because these are products that have a great transition on the world market and can be interesting for our production, can be interesting for employment, and space and solutions to these issues we have. That's number one. Number two. It's not enough to produce just to encourage raw materials. Among other things, care should be taken to extend these incentives to other categories of semi-products and fish products, and then examples of work should be taken to ensure that fresh fish, i.e. products of dried fish, frozen fish as well as fresh fish products, should be taken into account. Then the question arises what about the caviar, what about the question of the fish's incentives both freshwater and sea fish or the question of what about the salty fish or smoked fish, etc. This is what we are all about in these two, three basic categories, which is not quite enough, and this segment actually opens up a new segment of accumulation and acceptance of actually catching fish or our fishermen at sea and producing freshwater fish that should not only be intended for export as a raw product, but it should be the basis for the development of industrial forms and complex forms of processing and raw materials in the Republic of Croatia that will create new jobs, which will create new jobs and which will provide a natural new profit, i.e. new income both on our own and on the European market. In addition, it should be said that there are no major restrictions in this segment when it comes to the European Union, at least when it comes to freshwater fish. There's a blue fish in there. Therefore, if we want to talk about this, then we believe that in this respect these measures that are offered, they address some issues that are now current, which should be resolved, but they are certainly not long-term, they are not strategic, and therefore we think that they are only here to respond to the current situation, that they are pragmatic, that in this respect they actually confirm the question which unfortunately is not good for the Republic of Croatia, which is that in this segment we do not have a consistent and comprehensive policy of incentives to develop certain productions. Among other things, the development of our comparative advantages in relation to the Croatian environment and the European Union as a whole. And of course, above all, to achieve those economic and social benefits that should be based on breakages of job creation and employment in the Republic of Croatia and on the better life of all of us. That is why we will see depending on the debate, depending on the amendments to how we vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79757	Thank you. It's also past 10 minutes' notice time at 18.47. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79758	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian People's Party club will support these support. We think they are much better quality than they were before with a few remarks that I hope will contribute if you will listen well to maybe better overall for the advance or for the future some time that you will be able to install some improvements if they are quality. I'll try with the first one not to waste any time. Not to encourage import pigs, schools, calves and junadas. So it's absurd to encourage the import of pigs, the heroin money from the state budget. Let domestic production be encouraged instead of inciting imports. There is even imports for slaughtering heroes and pigs. If imports continue at the pace of the first 6 months of this year, around 96 million kuna will be spent by the end of the year. And to this pig plant 26 million kuna, which is a total of 120 million kuna to encourage import meat, to encourage domestic production. I think that would be more useful. Second, cancel the minimums. Do not limit production when food imports grow. Why do you need to get rid of the minima? At the moment when we import huge quantities of food, especially meat and milk and we have examples in Europe where it is limited to the maximum when it becomes profitable. Therefore, a minimum should be dropped because a large part of small and medium-sized producers will not be able to use these incentives and because of these restrictions, and because of these restrictions, we know that more than 80% of food products are small and medium-sized families. Third, to give incentives to develop private business incentives per dose of seeds, reproductive centres or fully privatised or partially. Two to three years ago, everything was owned by the state and in the world and Europe, these centres are owned by breeders, because they must have an impact on the source of genetics and method of using this seed. Now that we've privatized it, then it's the owner's personal decision that doesn't necessarily have to respect the interest of the breeder, which we don't think is right. Is that wise to support yourself, that's up to you? We think, if in the world it is common practice in Europe, that manufacturers have a direct impact on genetics and that would be normal. And what is said to encourage the oily turnips to produce was a diesel that is now 2 thousand 550 kuna and in Europe is 2 thousand 850 kuna. I think we're getting close to something in this sense improving, but if we know that in Europe the second generation of production has already started to be diesels and we're expected according to all the programmes that we've accepted from Europe a big job, I think maybe we should do more and try to even the incentives with European but here, and with these incentives of 2 thousand 550 kuna, I think it's done a lot. But if it doesn't work to run a bigger production of the oil turnip, then I think we could think about raising it a little bit. These are some small remarks or attempts to point out some of the problems and I think you'll consider that. We've submitted one amendment, so I'll just read the explanation. Encouraging domestic livestock and livestock production as well as the necessary reconstruction of the livestock stock must provide support for domestic female breeding bodies. Predicting a minimum amount of three throats, farmers engaged in cattle farming are encouraged to obtain female breeding calves instead of encouraging them to obtain calves for towing and slaughtering. In this way, Croatian cattle farmers would be encouraged to invest in female breeding calves and thus ensure the reconstruction of the livestock fund. Similarly, it encourages domestic production by increasing the growth of calves, increasing imports and increasing competitiveness of domestic producers, which are left to themselves through this bill. I think this amendment is aimed at even better production, meaning domestic, not imports, so if they accept it we thank you in advance. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79759	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Vladimir Kurecic? He's gone. The crown of Peronja? He's gone. Peter Mlinaric? He's here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79760	Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'm gonna say something about producing bio-elevator. The Member States of the European Union have fully turned to the task of reducing the emissions of harmful gases in the atmosphere. Sweden decided by 2015 to be independent of fossil fuels. Finland this year is going to build a bio-elevator plant, a capacity of 170 thousand tonnes. The Czech Republic has heated its oily tails at 200 thousand hectares for the production of bio diesels and, for example, the German Bundestag is heated on bio diesel. In the world, Brazil and the United States are leading ethanol production, with Brazil already independent of fossil fuels. For example, in Indonesia, the government approved the deforestation of the forest to turn palm plantations from which the oil would be produced as diesel. It is necessary to create any assumptions for the achievement of such obligations arising from the international agreements adopted. Biofuel production is dependent on political support. It is necessary to create economic assumptions for the transformation of the agricultural sector as soon as possible. It is not a solution to import vegetable oil for the production of bio-diesell in Croatia. The rate of growth of raw materials production depends on the speed of total bio-diosel production to the benefit of the community. The relevant political and economic and agricultural engagement in the Republic of Croatia can be estimated at around 400 thousand tonnes of bio-iesels from their own raw materials with an estimate of the yield of about 3 tonnes per hectare, which is realistic, i.e. by producing one tonne of bio-diesel per heated hectare, that means agriculturally employed 400 thousand hectares. Production of 400 thousand tonnes of oil for the production of bio-diesell would produce 800 thousand tonnes of cake, the possibility of significantly cheaper livestock production, and thus faster growth of livestock farming, milk and meat production. In Vukovar these days, it has just begun with the works of the Europa-Mil company, building a Euro-Diesel factory. Euro-mil bio-diesel. Europe-Mil enters the bio-diosela plant building project of 35 thousand tonnes of bio-diesel, which will require the provision of 100 thousand tonnes of rape or soybean oil. This capacity will require agricultural employment of 25 thousand hectares of farmland. The advantage of the production of bio-diesela technology which supports raw oil rape and soybeans is that Croatian farmers can use dual-field technology, which means that one year can be a heated culture of rape oil and the next on the same surface of soybean cultures that are already used in Europe and the world. The bio-diessal drive would directly employ twenty-five employees and would indirectly be tied somewhere around a thousand people on arable surfaces, given the depravity of the parcels. It should point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will increase incentives for oil rape from the current 2 thousand 250 kuna per hectare to 2 thousand 550 kuna per hectare. With this increase in support of oil rape, I must say that our Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have already crossed some countries that are in the European Union, they have already passed them. Well, I think, here is this commendation and the Ministry of his work and the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is concerned that we join the European Union as soon as possible. Since renewable energy sources are being supported by the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a project of production of ethanol for the annual capacity of 80,000 tonnes on the Syrian corn base, which should be provided at an annual level by around 300 thousand tonnes. This drive would employ 80 employees and, together with the bio-diesel drive, it would indirectly involve 4000 people on arable surfaces that would provide an orphan transport service, etc. The complete bio-energy production programme will be surrounded by the construction of the hydropower plant annual capacity of the circus 75 gigawatt hours which will be used as raw materials by by products from those plants and which will be employed in the final work somewhere around 150 employees will have a direct connection to over 4 thousand farmers' families. Excess electricity production would be sold to HEP and this part needed by the Europe-Mil factories would be used for their own purposes. Here, I think this is a good example, that others need this example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79761	Thank you. There's a replica, Mrs. Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79762	I want to replicate my fellow Mlinaric. First of all, we are now on the production of oil tails or sown in this year of some 8,000 and something small. We will be very happy if in the next five years we reach 30,000 and we will be going around the maximum limit as much as we can engage agricultural areas because, firstly, on all the surfaces of the oiled tail, we need to make sure that the Doubles do not go especially with our technology, but it is a quadruple and I return to what I said about 30 thousand designated surfaces you need to have in reserve or under the control of 120 thousand acres counting on some quadruple. But what I agree with you because a time-consuming fissibility study has been made, that the former government has gone as we should today have had these 30,000 and perhaps with some technological to say the achievements that are possible since it is possible to produce 4-5 tonnes, up to 5 tons of oil tail per hectare we could get to some 50,000 tons of bio-diesel that would certainly make our quota needed for transport at some point and satisfy it. The fact is that we didn't accept that bio-diesel is the first agricultural problem because it solves both surfaces and employment, the second green, and only the third energy is that today we pay taxes and unfortunately we're at one so plus zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79763	Thank you very much. Mr. Jure Bithugnac. He's gone. We've exhausted all the reports. The short-sighted minister, Cobankovic, will now come to the conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79764	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Here, I'll do it very briefly. I thank all those who participated in the debate on constructive proposals. I want to point out once again, these are not fundamental changes and additions to the Encouragement Act. They're only in a position to align and smooth out certain free to say production. We normally prepare ourselves and that through and through these amendments and additions to the laws we are going towards creating certain assumptions for changes and implementing the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, but in this period for our production it would be extremely unfavourable if we would now accept the implementation of the common agricultural policy because for this implementation we must create a certain basis. And so I repeat again. I would not say that it is cosmetic, I would say more by technical changes and additions, the alignment of certain types of support and certain strategic production that we want to stress right now through certain increases in support. I would not continue to continue to do so mainly because, in good part, and there are no certain MPs who have spoken about certain problems, so I do not think there is any reason for me to speak now, conditionally speaking and try to explain our proposals in relation to certain proposals put forward by the MPs, and just once again in this context, I would like to stress that this is in function I would say that the implementation of the strategic programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture for which we have adopted, have established strategic guidelines for development and for which we also bring operational programmes that are being implemented and which are heading towards increasing certain productions which are of strategic interest for the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. And in this context, I thank everyone once again for the constructive proposals and for the constructive debate on these amendments and additions to the Law on financial support in agriculture and forestry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79765	Thank you very much, and another promoter will address, Mr Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So here on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I would like to begin by saying that we are withdrawing our bill because this proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has kind of absorbed this proposal of ours. He was certainly saying I'd try to correct the injustice that was done to the beekeepers. I wouldn't be going to a longer elaborate of our proposal right now. We were all aware that some almost and technical mistakes had been made which made it impossible for some parties to make payments. We realized it, and normally, that we were going what we could do with a bill of law. I don't think there's any need in that part if beekeepers have agreed to meet this incentive that applies to both honey and honey and the part by hive and we accept their thinking. The thing where we're going to make an amendment to the Government's proposal is to reduce the number of those minimum quantities of honey per hive from 40 to 30 kilograms because we think that from 30 kilograms that would be sufficient minimum for a simple reason why we have to be aware that the bee is not only a honey manufacturer but is a bee and its general useful functions that it performs in agriculture. For these reasons, we certainly do, and I trust everyone in order to have as many hives as possible. It is not our goal to make them as big as possible as honey producers but to have them and as many as possible, and in that part, it would be good for this amendment to the Government to consider what to do? Also, since we are all fully aware that this was about some cosmetics, we have suggested that certain things change when we already have the law in front of us and that we go back to that system that was, and that is to encourage all quantities, and in that part we have proposed certain amendments and we hope that the government will accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79767	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79768	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on State support in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. We have a plate of amendments. Minister, go ahead. Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79769	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79770	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 2., same Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79771	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79772	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 3rd MP, Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79773	The amendment is not accepted. The support for the beef repair is more effective through the incentive of the original. The adoption of this proposal would encourage any female calf who, for various physiological reasons, may not be able to fertilise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79774	Representative Zeljko Kurtov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79775	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. It's a thin explanation, but it doesn't matter. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79776	Is the amendment withdrawn or not? Amendment withdrawn. Okay. 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79777	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79778	It's an integral part of the law. 5th Representative of Bozidar Pankretić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79779	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79780	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. He's gone. I vote. Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Representative Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79781	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79782	It becomes an integral part of the Law. The 7th representative of Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79783	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because the introduction of each throat of a drowned June would violate certain other proportions related to the minimally encouraged amount of surface and number, but we are prepared to discuss this whole issue in 2007. So, after the 1st quarter, we'll discuss this whole problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79784	Representative Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79785	Thank you very much. Due to the provision in the addition of the Law, which encourages a minimum of 20 applicants, a large number of calves unfortunately do not end up in this. It is thousands of bodies, given the fact that a large number of small agricultural households do so. And the fact that the calf ends up at the slaughter and, in particular, made possible by the recent amendments to the Law on cattle farming in which the ban is lifted, is a considerable damage to the national economy. Especially in light of the fact that Europe does not have enough quality heroia as Croatia does, but as the minister has promised to consider it in the first quarter of next year, I will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79786	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 8th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79787	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that there is already an incentive for industrial tomatoes of 3 thousand kuna per hectare, but the Ministry takes seriously the situation relating to the production of tomatoes and preservation and production in the Istrian County where the main production area is concentrated and in contacts with processor representatives means "Podravka", with local and regional self-government, we are ready to go through the incentive model, through the market intervention model to ensure that this production is ensured.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79788	IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79789	The IDS Club will then withdraw this amendment by then sticking to what the minister has promised.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79790	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 9th Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79791	The amendment is not accepted with a similar explanation as it was for Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79792	There's no representative. We vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 91 votes for, 6 abstentions and one against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79827	We move to the 5th point of today's agenda: - Final proposal of the law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Heat Project, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. Number 598. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Where the agenda is established, an emergency procedure shall be applied. The proposal for an act has been adopted in boxes pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure, emergency procedure,... First and second reading of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? It's not necessary. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79828	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club discussed the proposal for a law on the confirmation of guarantees agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a heat-based project with the Final Bill proposal and proposed its acceptance. The project aims to promote the efficiency of Croatian electricity business, the heat sector. Reduce energy loss and water by strengthening the financial position of businesses and increasing customer satisfaction. The heating project consists of two components. The first component of the recovery of the infrastructure, which includes the reconstruction of the thermal network in the city of Zagreb, as well as the restoration of the thermal network and the integration of consumers to the main combined thermal and electrical plant and the reconstruction of 25 heat substations in the city of Osijek. This means, in particular, in Zagreb, the replacement of the canals by double heat lines 35 kilometers, the heat transmission pipe 20 kilometers and the distribution pipe 15 kilometers. These investments are defined as priority recovery investments in places where major energy and water losses are present. In Osijek, network recovery requires a replacement of distribution pipes 15 kilometers and a replacement of heat source, as instead of inefficient local steam boilers, a cogeneration facility would be built. The second component is the advisory roles that include the development and implementation of the heating energy management programme, the completion of two research studies in Zagreb and Osijek aimed at examining the consumer's opinion on the quality of the service provided by Croatia's electricity sector. Preparation of tender documentation for the project, construction supervision according to the project, preparation of annual audits of financial reports for the project and bodies for the implementation of the projects. The project is financed by the World Bank's long-term and favourable resources which ensure its implementation at the highest level of quality. The main elements of the project are therefore the borrower and Croatia's electricity industry d.d., the lender of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Guarantee of the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Finance. Purpose: Promoting the efficient provision of services in heating. The loan amount is EUR 24 million. The interest rate is a six-month "euribor" plus a variable interest margin. The fee, the initial fee is 0.25% of the principal loan. The non-exploited loan fee is 0.35% of the annual undrawn amount. The payment deadline is 15 years, including the start of 5 years, and the maturity is half-year. The most important thing for this project is to point out that its realisation will allow a quarter of the population of the city, the cities of Zagreb and Osijek for the next 20 to 25 years to have always provided heating and these are people who do not have another source of thermal energy. For example, the whole of New Zagreb and everyone else connected to the heat. In Osijek there is an additional increase in the number of households that will be heated through heat in parts of the city that have so far been heated in different expensive ways. Therefore, heating costs for that part of the population in Osijek will be significantly reduced. On the basis of the statement, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports the adoption of an emergency procedure law, since its entry into force is a presumption of the withdrawal of loan funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79829	Thank you very much. Since there are no further reported State Secretary Mr. Vrankovic will declare the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79830	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79831	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79832	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a heat sector project. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? It's unanimous with 100 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79833	We move to the sixth item of the agenda, today's agenda is - The final draft law on confirming the second additional protocol with the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 601 Proposer of the Law The Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with the article... The Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure, unites the first and second readings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Mr. Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79834	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Justice Committee has discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The proposer's representative also pointed out that the second additional protocol introduces significant amendments and additions to the European Convention and establishes new institutions in the area of legal assistance in criminal matters between European countries. By adopting the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, the Republic of Croatia is largely in line with the second additional protocol of the application of certain institutions of the second Additional Protocol contained in Articles 17, 18 and 19 is opportunely limited since it is relatively new and in practice not sufficiently used legal institutes. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia will declare the reserves to Articles 17, 18 and 19 of the second additional protocol in the submission of the instrument of ratification itself. In the debate, the committee members unanimously supported the adoption of another additional protocol in addition to the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters, and following the reasons for the proposing representative to declare the reserves to Articles 17, 18 and 19 of the second Additional Protocol, it would not apply in the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law confirming the second additional protocol under the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79835	Thank you very much. There are no reports. Does the Proposer wish to make a statement regarding this reserve for these amendments? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79836	Final proposal for a Law confirming the second Additional Protocol in addition to the European Convention on mutual judicial protection in criminal matters. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 102 votes, this proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79837	- Amendments and additions to the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency - Confirmation. Decision amending the Statutes... In accordance with Article 30(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission received comments from the European Parliament and the Council on the application of this Regulation by the European Parliament [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Law on the Protection of Competition and Article 22 State aid laws. You have received a new proposal for an act in line with the remarks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to supplement it further? No, he doesn't want to explain. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79838	Amendments and additions to the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency, confirmation. I am voting in favour of the Decision confirming the Decision amending and supplementing the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency, which was adopted by the Competition Protection Council on 13 July 2006. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that, with 99 votes in favour and one abstention, the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79839	We move to - Final proposal of the railway safety law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 602 Here was the first and second reading actually an emergency procedure but I hear it's going to go on a regular basis. Yes, it is. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. Mr. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec, Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, in the shortest possible lines, I would just like to point out that the first step in the process of harmonising rail legislation with the appropriate level of EU legislation was to adopt the Law on Railways in 2003 and to begin its application with the beginning of this year. Afterwards, with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the national railway company and the start of the process of liberalisation of the railway market, the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company d.o.o. was adopted at the end of 2005. At the moment in the Republic of Croatia, the area of railway safety was governed by the Law on Safety in Railway Transport of '92. the year that later experienced two changes in '93. and in 2004. The important Security Act, as well as the sublegal regulations adopted under that law, and the acts of the Croatian Railways, which are over 2 hundred, are laid down by the terms and conditions for the safe and smooth operation of rail transport. This law also implements two directives, a Railway Safety Directive and a Directive on the interoperability of the high-speed railway system and conventional railways. The adoption of this Railway Safety Act has primarily resulted in redefining and harmonising of the rights and obligations of railway entities arising from the principle of separation of transport from infrastructure under the Law on Railways. This law, which is therefore the basis of the directive, provides for the structure and new bodies and is implemented in this law. I will mention all the three bodies that were planned and for which the basis was established by this law. It is the authority responsible for security which will be an independent national body. Therefore, a completely new, independent national body needs to be established and it is responsible for the regulation, management and supervision of the entire rail safety system, and will be established by special law. So far, that part of the business has been done by the Croatian railways. The investigating body as the second body to be established under this law is also the independent national authority responsible for carrying out investigations of serious accidents as well as exceptional events which, under certain circumstances, could lead to serious accidents. The investigative body will be established within the resolution ministry as an independent department, and so far some of these operations have been carried out by the Croatian Railways. Third, the body that will be founded under this law is so-called. the notified body. This is also an independent national body responsible for assessing compliance, i.e. the conformity of the use of individual subsystems and equipment on rail infrastructure, primarily keeping an account of the interest of interoperability as one of the basic requirements to be placed before each national railway system. The papers introduced by this law are also the taking over of responsibilities for performing certain tasks that have not been in the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, such as conducting expert examinations, conducting infrastructure registers and railway vehicles, carrying out technical checks on the prototypes of railway vehicles, and the making of rules which were in part of the work of the national railway company. So a huge job that has so far been done by Croatian railways inside their closed system, creating regulations, regulations of technical nature, etc. It will move to the Resorbed Competent Ministry, which will, of course, require certain increases in administrative capacity. I would point out here that at this point, the railway administration is numbering modest 13 people, and the assessment is that it will have to increase with the foundations and new obligations, as well as new requirements for at least threefold. Here it is in the shortest possible lines. Introducely, we gave up an emergency procedure. They accepted the proposal to be tabled in the proposals and the Legislative Committee. So in another debate, we will have the opportunity to absorb all the remarks that will be made today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79841	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the debate, Mr. Vukic reported on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go. It's not here. It's the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79842	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal for a new Law on Railway Safety is in line with the new domestic legal and sub-legal solutions in the area of railways and secondary sources of the European Union. The law incorporates parts of the material provisions of the Railway Safety Directive as well as of both Directives in the interoperability of the railway system, as well as other high speeds and conventional railways. The law provides for the establishment of 3 bodies by a directive of the European Union. The body responsible for traffic safety. The investigation body is an independent national authority responsible for conducting a serious accident investigation. And the notified body is an independent national body responsible for assessing the conformity of the use of individual subsystems and equipment. The newspapers introduced by this law under the European Union Directive are the taking over of responsibilities for performing certain tasks which have so far not been in the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, such as conducting expert examinations, conducting infrastructure registers and railway vehicles, carrying out technical checks on railway vehicles, making rules that were in part of the work of the national railway company. Through the definition of liability between railway actors and the formation of the aforementioned bodies, a higher level of safety will be achieved and the railways will make it easier to access the market, rail transport services in the Republic of Croatia. In most of the content relating to public rail transport, the previous 1992 law prescribed obligations only to one entity, the national railway company. Therefore, the full text of the new law first consistently implements the application of the principle of separation of rail infrastructure and rail transport in accordance with the Directive of the European Union, i.e. the definition of parts of the rail system of the infrastructure manager, railway carrier or both in accordance with the European Union Directive concerning certain provisions of the Law on Railway Safety. Unlike the existing law in the new law, there are no longer provisions under which important issues relating to safety and the course of rail transport are regulated by the general acts of the public undertaking adopted by the competent ministry. All such regulations in the future will be sublegal regulations adopted by the minister responsible for transport, management. And the railway infrastructure manager, the railway undertaking and the legal person carrying out the transport for their own purposes, will, under the laws and regulations, adopt general acts which include instructions for the operation of technological procedures and rules. Material, material provisions of laws, individual solutions and jobs as new jobs and jobs, which have so far been carried out in a public company, will go into the work of the body of the state administration and that is one of the most important parts of this law. And these are, under one, carrying out technical examinations, serial or individual vehicles, keeping a register of railway vehicles, empowerment to carry out works on the maintenance of railway vehicles, conducting expert examinations and checking the knowledge of executive workers, laid down in the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development shall be adopted in accordance with the Minister responsible for education, regulation of working conditions, duration of shifts and rest between two consecutive shifts, the adoption of sublegal acts under this law relating to the entire rail transport system. Before now, about 103 regulations, and before that, about 250 laws or sublegal acts. With this legislative proposal and the adoption of sub-legislative acts, the safety of rail transport with liberalisation will certainly be of greater service, and certainly the adoption of sub-legislative acts by the ministry and Croatian railways is that it will also increase safety on Croatian railways and that Croatian railways will be ready to enter a liberalised railway market. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79843	Thank you very much. There are no further applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79844	Proposal for a Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic. The applicant withdrew the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposal for a Railway Safety Act is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. Second reading. The result? With 98 votes in favour and one abstention and 2 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79845	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law confirming a temporary free trade agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the UN/UNMIK International Mission on behalf of the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 603 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When deciding on the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the law? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79846	The final proposal of the Law to confirm a temporary free trade agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the provisional mission of the United Nations in Kosovo on behalf of the provisional institutions of self-government in Kosovo. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 103 votes for the proposed Final Proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79847	We move to the 10th item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates, second reading, P.Z. No. 555. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system and the Committee on Human Rights. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central Administration Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79848	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here is the final proposal of the Law on the financing of political parties, which in this second reading even changed the name. It is now called, according to our proposal, the Final Proposal of the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates, because this Law wanted to cover all possible situations that would arise in political life, in elections to elect the President of the Republic, representatives of the Croatian Parliament and members of the representative bodies of the units of the regional, or local self-government. This Law is also thoroughly discussed on round tables before the debate. It was also given an opinion by European Commission experts. Discussed in the first reading, we have significantly improved the text for the second reading in such a way that we have detailed the independent lists and candidates, in a way that we have allowed the voluntary work of party volunteers, that we have prescribed sharp sanctions for a possible political racket. We have, of course, strengthened the possibility of using the funds used by state officials to carry out our regular activities. Therefore, campaigns should not use official cars, equipment and techniques which are made available to the official unless they are protected persons. This is a very important law, this is a major step forward in the fight against corruption and democratisation of society, and I am convinced that the Croatian Parliament will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79849	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, will the Committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we have already supported this law in our first reading, and we have highlighted its great importance and it is a law that we have a duty to make under the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. We commended, of course, the way the law was passed, before it came into the regular parliamentary procedure, a roundtable was organised where both the professional and other public of the Republic of Croatia could be introduced to the draft and proposal of this Law. Many and many of the comments raised there have been incorporated into this Law, and as we see between this period between the first and the second reading, the Law also accepted those arguments that were highlighted in the first debate. And so we see that the Law has changed the name so that now it is not only called the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates but also includes the financing of independent lists and candidates. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community supports this Law. We believe that it is good, that it is clear and what is its, I would say, the most positive side is that we now have that there are no anonymous donors but simply anyone who wants to help a particular political party it must be with a name and a last name so that our citizens, our voters see exactly who is behind which political party it stands. And on this side, the Croatian Democratic Community, I say, supports these solutions, supervision of political party financing, supervision of political parties' financial operations, implementation by the Ministry of Finance and the State Audit Office. Also, all these improvements that are embedded in this second reading, in this Final proposal we support and the Croatian Democratic Community supports this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79851	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate, an individual debate. He's the first Mr. Joseph Leco to be gone. He's losing his right to debate. The other is Nenad Stazic, and he's not here either. He's losing his right to debate. And the third Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79852	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is precisely a major and important contribution that requires the actual regulation of legislation that is appropriate to the norms and practices of European countries, which is the financing of political parties. Nomotechnically, indeed, well-dressed to the limit, it has been established how and how the funding will be implemented. From the first reading, I am pleased that the promoter has respected a number of good and useful suggestions, and in the first place, the Law on the financing of political parties itself. The draft Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates now covers everything that can be covered when it comes to elections. Among other things, the head of "Controlling and Financial Business of Political Parties" is also very important. The supervision is carried out by the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration in order to introduce a truly strict financial business and a truly good order in this segment of socio-political life. That's why it's said to be an important contribution. The parties may have donations where the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia do not impose restrictions within the meaning of all of these provisions so far. Therefore, this Law should be adopted and included in the list of laws of the Croatian legal system as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79853	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the debate. Does he want to conclude on behalf of the government? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. It will decide on all these agenda points Friday most likely, and now I am interrupting the session. The session continues at 9:30. I ask the MPs to come and bring the key to the vote because there will be proposals that we will have to adopt on the enlargement of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79854	Final proposal of the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates. We have a plate of amendments. State Secretary Antun Palaric. 1. Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79855	It's unacceptable. We think 10% of the pay increases for the sub-represented sex are enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79856	Representative Furio Radin, on behalf of the Committee of the Proposers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79857	This amendment, tabled on the basis of the Committee's view and unanimously, I repeat unanimously, so that it is understood that all parties voted in favour of both parties' opposition and party positions. Women were believed to have too little in political life, so more parties should be stimulated to put them in such a place on the list that they will be elected and increased from 10% to 20%. I repeat, everyone voted yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79858	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Representatives Krunoslav Markovinović and Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79859	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79860	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79861	It's unacceptable. The government believes that foreign natural persons should be allowed, thinking of Croats who do not have Croatian citizenship and living outside the Republic of Croatia that they can contribute to the financing of a particular political party or an independent candidate. Therefore, we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79862	Who's in favour of this amendment? Yeah. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth, HSU's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79863	We accept, but contentally in the government's formulation so that, in Article 19(3), the words "public documents" are added, and therefore, it would remain on the web.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79864	A representative of the Hrelja agrees. In that amended and updated form, the amendments have been accepted. Fifth, representative Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79865	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79866	It becomes an integral part of the law. Sixth, the same representative of Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79867	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79868	It's part of the law. Seventh, MP club of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79869	It's unacceptable. In particular, items 4, 5 and 6 are subject to the financing of independent lists and independent candidates and independent members of local self-government units. It is an important part of this law, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79870	HSU counseling club...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79871	Mr. President! I cannot accept the proposal's clarification because I believe that equating independent lists with, financing independent lists with parties is not productive and is not a contribution to the transparency of the financing of the entire political system, but I think it is a very good contribution to further trading in political mandates and I cannot accept this explanation. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79872	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Eighth, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79873	We accept the content but in the formulation agreed between the Government and the MPs in such a way that the government's formulation reads, in Article 26, new items 6 and 7 which read, independent representatives and independent members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government can be established by an office for the performance of administrative and professional tasks. In relation to employees referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article, an independent representative and independent members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government shall have the rights and obligations of the employer. Article 6 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79874	Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79875	We accept the change.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79876	In the amended form of amendments accepted. The ninth amendment, National Minority Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79877	The amendment shall also be accepted in its content but in the government's formulation so that, in Article 29, at the end of the sentence, the point is deleted and the words are added: except for Article 9, paragraph 2, which shall take effect on the day of the establishment of the new convocation of the Croatian Parliament after the first subsequent parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-12-13-0.u79878	A representative... Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. Am I voting on the final draft of the law? Please, let's get on with it! We can vote. The result? I find that, with 86 votes for, 4 abstentions and 13 against the adoption of the Law on the financing of independent political parties and candidates in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. - Proposal for a candidate for election of a member of the State Judicial Council in accordance with Article 3. Law on the State Judicial Council, the proposal was submitted by the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the President of the Committee, Mr Emil Tomljanovic, to take his word. Here you go.
