ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69169	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In your second reading, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Real Rights is before you. This law, by my assessment, can be considered freely one of the roof laws in our legislative and legal system because it is actually governed by one of the most important relationships and these are property relations and other real rights. True, that law was passed back in '96. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. '97. For years, he edits a series of important institutes. However, as well as the complex relations, the conversion of that ownership system, i.e. what was some kind of surrogate ownership in the social ownership system, is the most important provisions which were applied and which belonged to a significant place, are provisions, transitional and final provisions of that law. It seems to me that this law just confirms sometimes how important transitional and final provisions are, because you can't go any further, you can't fully develop a system of ownership rights so long as we haven't fully completed relations resulting from the conversion of previous rights of governance, use and availability. Therefore, in these transitional provisions, important provisions have contributed to this way of converting these rights of management, use and availability unless otherwise specified by other specific laws. It was also prescribed that the provisions of this law on the conversion, right of management, use, availability do not apply to the things where these rights were governed by former social and social political organisations as well as the things which were not introduced into the social capital of legal persons in the process of conversion under the laws governing the conversion of social enterprises as well as things in the temporarily occupied and now of course freed territory of the Republic of Croatia. Meanwhile, some of these relationships have been arranged, settled, governed by a special law. Thus, the Law on the Conversion of Rights to Social Funds by former social political organisations was passed, and a law on the conversion of social enterprises and the Law on Privatisation was passed. However, what we need to say here is why it has reached partly through this law to achieve the relationship resulting from the conversion of funds in social property, the right to have social, legal persons, companies from the former system, is that it did not actually prescribe the situation of fate, that is, what happens to things, the rights that are not at all legal persons in their labs, in assessment, in conversion or in the course of the conversion of that thing, the rights are not introduced into conversion. That is why in these ten years since the process of transposing objections, we have seen different interpretations, different practices, different and court practices and a series of disputes resulting from the fact that the issue remains unresolved. Therefore, one of the newspapers that is regulated by this law is the definition of what is considered to be a company as a legal successor during the transformation of the company, the social enterprise acquired its ownership on the day of the assessment and the value of the underlying capital in the process of conversion and privatisation. The saying is that this is what it had social property on... the management, use and availability which was the subject of acquisition of ownership rights and whose value is the estimated capital of the company and which is shown in the capital of the company by the competent authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This seems to me to be the most important newspaper in this bill to therefore give a clear definition of what was acquired as the property of a company during the conversion. The provisions relating to exemptions from a public tender have also been amended when the unit of local administration and self-government have been available to real estate so that certain exceptions are made when it is not necessary to go to a public tender, starting from one excess of the other principle, the principles of one reasonable conduct of continuity and unexcessive burden for those who seek to exercise ownership rights on something that is owned by local administration units and self-government and in principle where no one else can even appear as such a person who needs that part of the land to penetrate a building plot, but only when that part does not exceed 20% of the surface of the planned building plot. The second newspaper of this law and this is the difference compared to the final proposal of this law is that provisions relating to the acquisition of property rights of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia are now being amended so that it is now determined that two phases are not needed. Therefore, there is no longer any need to give first the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Minister of Justice, and after that, the agreement of the foreign minister, but the procedure that has been mentioned on the media today has been united in one body and this bill suggests that only the agreement of the Minister of Justice is needed in future for the acquisition of the rights of the party's ownership. This will hopefully speed up the process. As for the difference, there are no other differences between this final bill and the bill of law. I must admit, there are no objections made in the first reading, and they are not adopted. Almost all objections by parliamentarians were adopted, so the expression was changed, for example, in place of the term of the competent authority of the state administration, the competent authority, then the issuing of building permits, was amended into spatial order documents and similar in the terminology to be appropriate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This has also been extended to those properties owned and principally owned by legal persons and founded by units of local administrations and self-government. The comments of the Justice Committee were also accepted so that the elements of the market price were prescribed. And I say they accept the comments of the board and the individual representatives. This is, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in importance what is proposed by this bill and the differences between the text of the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69170	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69171	Thank you very much. Well, I'd just like to draw one attention. Madam Secretary of State uses the term of units of local self-government and administration. The term no longer exists in the law, so there is a term of the units of local and regional self-government. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69172	The committees? Legislative, judicial? The chairman of the Justice Committee, a respected representative, Drazen Bosnjakovic. Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69173	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State! At the 42nd session held on 29 June 2006, the Croatian Judicial Committee discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Ownership and other real rights submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 2 June 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative referred to the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law, stressing as the main newspaper the simplification of the process of granting consent to foreign persons for the acquisition of property rights in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, administrative proceedings will be conducted by the Ministry of Justice and the agreement will be issued by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the proposed amendments and additions, as the applicant observed the comments and proposals made by the Justice Committee in the first reading. On the final proposal to amend and supplement the laws, the Committee members made the following proposals and comments. Article 3 should say that in the process of acquiring ownership of foreign natural and legal persons on real estate in the Republic of Croatia, the consent of the Minister of Justice is an administrative act. It is proposed that the formulation contained in Articles 5 and 8 that legal work does not produce legal effect in accordance with the positive regulations. In accordance with the table set out, the Committee shall submit amendments to the final proposal for a law. Following the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed with seven votes for the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights with the following amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 5 of the final proposal: In Article 357(1), the word "does not produce a legal effect" is replaced by the words "it is worthless". And Amendment 2 to Article 8 of the final proposal. In Article 391, paragraph 5 is amended and reads as follows: "Legal transactions concluded contrary to the provisions of this Article are harmless." The reasons for the proposed amendments are in line with the final draft law with the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69174	The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69175	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 59th session held on 27 June 2006 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights submitted to the President of the Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the final draft law. The Committee considers that, in order to ensure the principle of legal certainty, it is necessary to lay down in the final draft legislation a provision that the consent of the Minister on the basis of which the parties, natural and legal persons can acquire property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is an administrative act. The Committee also states that it is necessary to clarify the procedures to be initiated before the entry into force of this law shall apply the provisions of this law. In this connection, the Committee has proposed amendments to the final draft law. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the following amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 3. Article 3 is amended and reads as follows: "Article 356 paragraphs 2 and 3 are amended and read as follows: "The parties of natural and legal persons may, if the law does not set out otherwise under the assumption of reciprocity, acquire property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia if the minister responsible for the affairs of the justice of the Republic of Croatia gives consent. The consent referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be an administrative act." Paragraph 4 is deleted." This amendment suggests that the consent of the Minister in the process of acquiring the property of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is an administrative act. 2. The amendment is an amendment to Article 11. Article 11 is amended as follows: "The procedures shall be initiated in accordance with the provisions of Articles 356 and 357. Law on ownership and other real rights of the "National Journal" No. 91/96, 68/98, 22/00. and 114/01. It will be completed according to the terms of this law." The amendment suggests that the provisions of Article 11 of this Act apply only to the procedures laid down in Articles 356 and 357. Laws of ownership and other real rights. The amendments have also been submitted by the Justice Committee, so I think the Government will be able to make one joint amendment from our amendments, perhaps to improve the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69176	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69177	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State! So I would also like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and Other Real Rights. The amendments and additions of the Law itself refer to the following legal institutes. The first is the establishment of an essential property in terms of the development of a legal basis for the establishment of a material property and the development of a form, the way to acquire and enter a land book. The second is the acquisition of the right of ownership of foreign natural and legal persons on real estate in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Then acquire ownership of companies as the legal successor of social enterprises. Fourthly, the way in which ownership rights were entered when real estate was built on land and social property, and no right to use building land in social property for the benefit of building owners was entered on land. And five, exceptions to the way in which they are distributed by the ownership of units of local or regional self-government in relation to the obligation to call a public tender and to set up a market price fee. So it's a thorough property. The sad property shall, of course, be authorised by a co-owner whose co-owner has been established to manage that particular part of the property instead of all co-owners, exercise all the ownership and responsibilities as if a special part of it were his or her property and, of course, if it is not otherwise defined, it shall act with that part and the benefits of it, whichever is the will and any other of it is excluded. The property of a special part of the property therefore has a substantial ownership and remains inseparably linked to the relevant co-owned ideal part of the property on which it was established. The detailed ownership is established by enrolment in the land book and as a right related to a particular co-ownership part of that property. It shall be entered in the co-owner's list on the co-owner's part of that co-owner for which the detailed property has been established, but always with the indication of the specific part of the property and the parallel parts to which it extends,... and on the very property sheet, a sign shall be placed on the floor of the property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The decision so far, which developed the legal basis for the establishment of an essential property, prescribed that the detailed ownership cannot be established until the competent administrative authority has confirmed that a specific apartment or other room in a particular building or on a specific land particle is an independent use unit. The solution that is offered is indeed more precise, and therefore more normatively acceptable. It stipulates that the ownership of a specific part cannot be established until the competent authority has confirmed that a specific apartment or room in a specific building and on a specific land particle is an independent useful whole. However, the certificate must contain a list and a description of the specific parts of the property and have been built in accordance with the authorisation of the competent authority. Subject certificate may be replaced by a valid permit but which shows that the building is built in accordance with the plan of specific parts of the property. This plan must be confirmed by a building permit and specific parts must represent an independent useful whole. In this particular sense, it is necessary to consider how to calculate the total useful area. It shall be calculated according to the main project which is an integral part of the building permit or which is envisaged, confirmed by the competent authority. In the case of a significant deviation from the project, the useful area shall be calculated according to the real state. The proposed amendments should be supported, inter alia, by the regulation of the content of the confirmation of the land-booking court will also have a list and a description of the specific parts of the building as self-using units. Therefore, the parties themselves will no longer need to deliver detailed elaborates to the grantovnica, which has so far been one of the basic assumptions of the recording of ownership rights on specific parts of the building. Secondly, as regards the acquisition of property ownership in the territory of the Republic of Croatia of foreign and natural and legal persons, the following should be stressed: Claims, acquisition of the right of ownership of foreign natural and legal persons has so far been regulated in Article 356. The law of ownership and other real rights, assuming reciprocity, therefore. And conditioned under the first consent of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the 2nd, with the previous opinion of the Minister of Justice. The proposed solution not only simplifies and shortens the process of granting consent to the conclusion of legal work but also places the administrative procedure of granting consent in the power of one ministry. Therefore, the entire administrative procedure is carried out by the Ministry of Justice and the agreement is issued by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. In this regard, the amended Article 357(1), which regulates that legal transactions aimed at obtaining ownership rights without the consent of the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary do not produce legal effects. So they're absolutely nothing legal. They're treated like they're not even closed, like they don't exist legally. The futility of the "ex-lege", the court looks after it according to official duty. And it comes from the very moment of the conclusion of legal work. The parties to the specific situation cannot, even by their settlement, remove the reasons for the futility of the legal work to be concluded. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the more precise proposed solution and to refer to companies as the legal successors of social enterprises in terms of obtaining property rights in real estate which will therefore acquire the proposed solution as property with a cumulative fulfillment of three prescribed conditions. The first of these conditions is that the social property on which the right of ownership is now acquired was therefore recorded as social property with the right to management, use and availability. That the real estate is, of course, about situations that can be the subject of acquisition of ownership rights and that it is property whose value is assessed in the capital of the company and which are shown in the capital of the company by the competent authority itself. The specific fulfilment of the above conditions removes any inaccuracies and inaccuracies which have so far occurred in a number of cases in practice in terms of the acquisition of the right of ownership of those legal entities. In addition, the following should be pointed out as regards the housing institute owned by units of local self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth In fact, the law provides for an exemption from the rules, from the legal obligation that units of local self-government on their property can alienate or otherwise dispose of such units only on the basis of a public tender and with a remuneration established at market value. In the first instance, this exception applies when the right of ownership is acquired by the Republic of Croatia and the unit of local self-government and by a legal person owned or controlled by the Republic of Croatia or units of local self-government. If this is in the interest of and the purpose of the general, economic and social progress of its citizens. Therefore, the exception relates to the sale situation to natural persons at a fixed market price but without the execution of a public tender. This option shall be provided for persons who need a part of the land to form an undeveloped building particle in accordance with the location permit or detailed planning, but provided that that part does not exceed 20% of the surface area of the planned building particle as well as the situation in which the person who owns the land without a building permit or other relevant act by the competent authority has built buildings in accordance with a detailed planning plan or location permit, and is missing up to 20% of the surface of the planned building particle, but also provided that, within one year of the date of conclusion of the contract, a construction permit will be issued. In addition, it is absolutely necessary to support the provision of Article 6 amending paragraph 3 of Article 368. Laws of ownership and other real rights. Indeed, in the event of the existence of a building land award act to build a building to register a building, it is really too high to seek a solution to the removal of construction land from the property of the former owner, so that in most cases, concrete objects and documents do not usually exist. In a particular situation, the court will, at the request of the owner of the building, determine the entry of the building into the land book if the following documents are applied cumulatively. Therefore, the decision to build a building is granted the right to use the building land to a natural or legal person and contract of mutual rights and obligations and to inform the competent cadastrian body that the building particle is built on the building. Accordingly, the Club's representative of the Croatian Democratic Community is absolutely supporting all proposed institutes and therefore the application of the Law on Property and other real rights will be clearer, more precise and transparent, and the possibility of enrolment in land books will be able to be resolved more quickly and thus by obtaining ownership rights and physical and simplifying the process of obtaining property rights and natural and legal persons. Finally, in the context of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, it fully supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69178	Thank you very much. SDP club respected Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69179	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, the SDP's Club of Representatives will not be able to support this proposal. We will be abstentioned in the adoption of this bill although we have the understanding of the proposed amendments and additions or the addition of the right of ownership institutes and the real right proposed by this bill. Why can't we uphold the law? Allow first for several principled reasons. The first fact to be taken into account that the law is, among other things, one of the key changes is also made to allow companies as legal followers of former social enterprises to acquire property on real estate or land that they were in conversion. Unfortunately, this question only partially solves the problem that exists in social practice because it is a whole series of so-called ‘social’. functionally connected land with tourist facilities and hotels that could not have been or were not subject to assessment and then did not even enter into trouble. In such a situation, this issue should definitely be resolved and therefore we believe that both this law and the Law on Privatisation should have been discussed jointly, brought together and made one more detailed and serious amendment to the Law on Property and Real Rights as well as the Law on Privatisation that should definitely have been settled. Secondly, what we must stress in this regard is the fact that this bill as cumulative conditions assumes that a social enterprise may have the right to have over that land under the conditions that it was the holder of management rights, the right to use and the right to dispose, which is actually a complete ignorance of the former system because the rights of use had workers and the right to manage were part of the rights of labour in social property. Therefore, there was, in particular, no legal institute, and the social enterprise had only the right to have legal traffic with third parties. So it's obvious that things aren't understood, and then, as a consequence, we draw the wrong conclusions about conversion and privatisation. The second condition is that it was the subject of acquisition of ownership rights. It could not have been under the Privatisation and Conversion Act subject to the acquisition of ownership rights, but rather the subject of an assessment of the conversion and privatisation which is something quite different and third that it entered as an estimated capital of the company that was shown in the capital of the company by the competent authority. And we would like to remind that some of the properties, such as parts of the maritime goods or public goods, have also entered the estimated value, and according to these amendments and additions to the law, would have created a real conjecture for me, or that it was mutilated or what is the most common case would be to conduct long-term litigation disputes that would prove whether or could not have been the subject of ownership, the subject of the assessment then and the subject of ownership, etc. That is why we believe that this part is above all significant and also because of these concrete remarks that we are talking about in relation to Article 7 concerning the new Article 390a. In fact, it's unspeakable, and that's why it needs to be dealt with in particular. The third point concerning this question is the question, so-called Camps. We would like to remind ourselves that the camps were also formed, but not as they usually say on social land on land in former social property, but that the camps should have been parceled the totals that should have been under the Construction Law had every particle in the camp had to be a building particle and in such a situation the question is now being raised and what about it. A part of them could not go into conversion and privatisation was treated as forest and construction land. One part has gone, and according to this amendment of the law, the team will allow it to acquire property and huge capital, given the assessment that it has been acquired by the principles of conversion. Therefore, underestimating the value, not the market value of real estate related to the building land, but the value assessed on the basis of the capital in the company that was then at war and where tourism did not work at all. On the other hand, some who have such camps will practically remain in a situation that they will have to prove by special regulations. Therefore, we believe that we should actually postpone the adoption of this bill and that this bill should be prepared as well as the proposal of the Privatisation Act to resolve these issues. The third, or second group of our observations, is related to land owned by units of local self-government or Article 8 where, of course, we agree that according to Article 391 of that property owned by units of local self-government, property owned by units of local self-government, units of local government are here again writing administrations and self-governments, the heads of these units may be accused, but we do not agree that they can be sold at a established market price without a public tender. First, if there is no public tender, this property is not actually exposed to market valuation. If it is not exposed to market valuation on the basis of which an estimated market value will actually be established because there is no actual market action. In such a situation, we believe that it is possible, and unfortunately it happens in practice and that there will actually be benefits in the acquisition of such land, especially if it is about that land of which the character of the forest or the character of the agricultural land, and then after that changes and additions of the spatial plan turn it into land, and then changes and additions to the Law on Forests, the Law on Agricultural Land, and then we declare that this can be acquired in the right of ownership as a building land and is practically horrendous for individuals where it is possible for them not to buy real estate for a certain value, for some short changes, it practically acquires 10, 20 times more value than it is. I must say that with such forms of manipulation and guessing I cannot agree. For that reason we have, and that reason is further reason our abstention over the vote... The same thing is about this sale 20%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, that's where the estimated market value was now put in then okay. But here to talk about it will be market value, and at the same time it's not possible for someone to buy 20% of the building particle, because actually what they're going to do with it, it's not going to value. Then it is quite clear that the issue of functional connection of that part of the land to the building particle which by nature things should belong, or as they knew, they knew our old civil rights professors were speaking by the judge of things belong to it. Now, this should actually be resolved, to open up the possibility for those persons of ownership on that building particle on which the construction facility is already built, practically that they can buy it, that they can carry out the legalisation process and resolve that part. It seems to us that this part is not fully worked out, and in this respect we have, of course, reserves, and we are relativating this issue that relates to the fundamental property. I think this is a good solution, or a much better solution than we have so far, which opens up the possibility that actually in cities, especially in cities it speeds up the legalization of basic property, mainly because often times and in cities when a building particle of multiple particles was formed, cadastrian particles formed one particle of construction that wasn't carried out through books and then waiting to actually be implemented, although there is no building permit you can't get used to, then you can't implement all that. This then causes quite large and procedures and disputes, so if you want to and dissatisfaction with people for a simple reason because they can't provide so-called. clean as the papers are said so that they can, with their ownership, distribute in terms of credit, financial and property-legal pledges from the aspect of, say, credit-lifting, etc. which could mortgage their property. We also welcome the question that, without the agreement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Administration and, at present, only the Ministry of Justice regulates the issue of ownership with foreigners. But we don't support it completely being excluded from the Foreign Ministry. However, in certain cases when the issue of reciprocity is at stake, an opinion should be asked. And it can cover the so-called. The methodology of working between ministries, but if there's no legal obligation then there's no such thing as that. Therefore, at least it should have been left to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for opinion in such matters, with the issue of reciprocity proposed by our Committee on the Constitution being questionable by the aspect of our own constitution, which says clearly that everyone has the right to submit a request. E, but we would like to now by law to resolve what it means for example for citizens of the European Union to be able to apply, that we should, but that this should be possible if the same right has a citizen of the Republic of Croatia in the country from where that citizen comes from. And then a whole series of things would be resolved, made it easier on the one hand for the Justice Department to do certain things, and on the other hand, at the same time, if the questionable situation is, in the nature of things, then it would take the opinion of our foreign ministry as well. We absolutely agree with the committees who suggest that this act should be treated here as an administrative act. For the simple reason it isn't, it has nothing to do with the protection of rights as formally as it is constitutionally. Because our Constitution clearly states that rights must be protected and the possibility of protection against the court. Therefore, if the administrative act is then we are practically allowing our trial to protect these rights before the court, with the fact that here we should finally reopen the debate to prescribe that in such matters the full jurisdiction of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia should be introduced. Because it doesn't make any sense when foreigners are involved in disputes that are constantly returning to re-treatment, but should be introduced here in full jurisdiction. All these arguments that I made on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club suggest that this is actually a good idea, a good project that should be further completed. And in that sense, we don't think it would be a good idea to vote on this law right now. We will, if there is a vote on him, be restrained for these reasons. And we think that we should actually prepare a slightly more significant amendment and addition of the Law on Property and Real Rights and bring it together with the Law on Privatisation, including some other laws such as the Law on Land in which these issues should definitely be resolved. Because they concern issues that are in the extreme line of national interest for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why our attitude will remain this way. We will, if there is any vote on this law, be abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69180	HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69181	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Madam Justice Department. HSP advocates' club will not support this law. We suggest that he either withdraws from the procedure entirely or at least be directed to the third reading. There's a whole series of questionable provisions of this law that they've offered us to do. I'll only name two here. In the first instance, this is Article 7 which adds Article 390a. in this law, which actually means a kind of legalisation of illegally acquired real estate during the conversion and privatisation process. As we, on the one hand, wake up to the annulment of all illegally acquired shares, all illegally acquired assets during conversion and privatisation here are allowed to legalize such property. We can't accept that, and we'll fight it. There's also another problem, and that's while HSP has been in the process for years with laws that we wanted to introduce as broadly as possible... protect our islands which extends the right of first purchases to protect the good from public interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you are actually going to a small door to complete liberalisation of the real estate market. It is true that in the previous meeting of the Parliament, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed, it indicated that within 4 years of the entry into force of the Republic of Croatia, so until 1 February 2009, it would liberalise the real estate market, is that there is a hole in Article 49 which allows foreign companies in Croatia to establish branches and then purchase real estate, but I am really surprised that the government was then made up of parties that were against the Stabilisation and Association Agreements today write such laws that go completely in this direction and even beyond that. I am appalled by the honored gentlemen that in December of last year, this government received a parish note from the Republic of Italy asking Italy to liberalise the real estate market, that there was no response from our Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 7 months now, which is evidence of complete clamperia, but the answer is, in fact, this Law and by this Law, you are in fact clearly showing that you do not care... real estate negotiations than at any moment of the European Union or some of its larger members, such as Italy, will be obedient to the laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm surprised P.Z.E.'s not here. so this is reportedly done in writing with the European Union as part of the negotiations. What do we need negotiations for? What do we need to fight in negotiations when we change the laws completely in that direction? Therefore, there was no need before the deadline that was put into the Stabilisation and Association Agreement by my court, so there was no need to go to any change in the real estate regime in Croatia before 2009 for foreigners, but I guess it is for the sake of proving European width, I guess that someone in Italy would not object to someone, this government obediently agrees to it all together, does not react 7 months to the diplomatic note, but that it peacefully writes a law that agrees with everything they are looking for. I'm very well-respected, ma'am, and most respected gentlemen of the Croatian government, you know me, all of this reminds me of that King Angurin who sold Dalmatia for 100,000 ducats. I don't know what money you sell the Croatian coast for, but you may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69182	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69183	Well, it's an incorrect allegation that an esteemed colleague is that this bill completely liberalises or opens up the real estate market. For the sake of the public, it is necessary to state and correct this incorrect assumption that in the regime of acquisition of the right of ownership of foreign natural and legal persons absolutely nothing is changed except that the procedure for the acquisition of the right of ownership of the two ministries is therefore transferred to the Ministry of Justice, with an explicit legal provision that this consent of the Minister of Justice will be an administrative act with the possibility of all forms of legal protection. So, the standards of protection and acquisition of ownership rights are not liberalised at all in this respect and it is absolutely not what you have explained in this context and in this context these institutions are able to acquire ownership rights in terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69184	Peace. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69185	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This bill of law seems to us at the HNS Club an attempt to draw one pathway to the line under the things that were lurking, dragging and dragging for the next 10 years, 15 years, but it lacks travel and travel instruments and then things of course stop at a compromise as logical. In this section that speaks of the material possession and possession of a special part that is good and that needs to be done in order to simply clarify that people could normally manipulate and master what they have. It seems to me that it is not mentioned or at least not mentioned enough, sufficiently explained that part of the facility that was built without the permission of the competent authority, i.e. spaces in a joint building that is being set up, which do not have the authority’s permission, which may have existed before, but are being refurbished so today more woodworks than workshops, are no longer apartments but are shops or vice versa. This is one of the questions that will still seem to me to remain a subject of confusion and an object of trying to solve the problem in a variety of ways that are not legal. The fundamental part on which counterpart Tadic of HSP here took such a gallant look is to simplify foreigners to acquire property in the Republic of Croatia, a simplification in the sense that they no longer have to decide two ministries but only one ministry. If it is the countries with which we have a treaty on the reciprocity of such proceedings, I think it is good and it does not seem to me to be much to discuss, for a few more years, and such a debate will become illusory regardless of what my dear colleague Kovacevic from the bench says, it seems to me that this debate will become illusory to us, the others are not. There is another situation with countries with which we do not have the possibility of mutuality. I think that, at the very least, the legal text should include the provision that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's opinion is necessary in order not to solve matters on or even by such an administrative act in the Administrative Court, so that there is no idea that it is actually a bargaining point for someone with a huge amount of money to come to the Republic of Croatia to acquire real estate. If there is no agreement says one of the paragraphs of the Law, such legal work is nonexistent. I think it's... And a little unnecessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the same thing is said twice to require consent, and if there is no consent and then there is no agreement, so if there is no agreement of course there is no agreement, of course it is understood if one of the legal conditions is not met, then the job is not done properly, so it is not a legal job. I don't see any particular need to stress that again. It seems to me like there's some kind of suspicion here right now of this particular situation that someone's gonna come in with big money from abroad trying to manipulate things so they can get away with it without the Justice Department's consent. If this exists as a possibility, it means that in law we express a skepticism in the ability of our organs to implement the same law. In Article 390a. The right of ownership of companies as a follow-up to social enterprise over what they inherited from social enterprises is positively determined. It's good that it's expressed positively, not as negative so far if there's no such condition, if there's no condition. The terms are pretty clear. However, it does not seem to me that the problem of maritime good, for example, of any other object of public importance that has entered into the composition of social enterprises which should not have become the subject of the ownership of companies. It seems to me that if I understand correctly, there is not enough emphasis. I'm afraid there will be further possibilities for conflict, long-term litigation, spending of time and money. Article 391 is amended as a compromise. Namely, what happens if in paragraph 3 in this last section, if the one who bought 20% of the surface of the planned building particle does not receive a building permit within one year? What's going on? So he did it all the way the law prescribed and didn't get a building permit for what reason, for some reason. Whether the duration of the contract, which he bought the building particle, will be extended until it is granted within a reasonable period of time, a building permit or the contract will simply be cancelled. It would seem I should be clearly stippled here in law. What we definitely cannot accept in the HNS Club is the definition of a market price that says that the market price is the one that can be achieved on the market and depends on supply and demand at the time of its determination and there is no public tender. There's no market price without a public tender, I mean this is the definition that the possibility of actually arbitraryly determining the market price is how the reference, the headship, who already sells that land or that plot, as let's say it decides that there's a cost of building land on its ground. I think this should be more clearly defined with the average cost of building land for that type of land in the area of the local self-government. I think that would be clear then, on average, in the last six months, in the last year, it doesn't matter what period, but I think it would be clearer then, and that it would actually make it impossible to manipulate and arbitraryly set a construction price or favour a buyer who is thus local self-government. Article 10 of the Law also established a nice compromise. It is said, therefore, that on the basis of the certificate referred to in paragraph 2, the confirmation that a separate part of the building is an independent unit, the competent court will, under its official duty, enter a note in the land book that a specific part of the building has been built without or contrary to the authorisation of the competent authority. Therefore, the building has been upgraded against the permission of the competent authority, i.e. it is never a building permit for the upgraded part obtained and the court will enter in the ownership of such part but will then make a note that this is being done against the law. It seems to me that a compromise that you are a serious legislator should not allow, that something that is illegal or not in accordance with the law declares legal and then make a note that it is not quite so. I think it's another one of those... A line that will once need of course and in this country underline but then much more determined and with much clearer sequences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69186	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69187	So it is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who said it did not cover maritime good in terms of obtaining the right of ownership of legal followers of former social enterprises. The maritime well-being and then out-of-trafficking property cannot be acquired either in this sense and they are as such exempted and maritime well covered in terms of this law as a property where in no case can the right of ownership be acquired, and in particular by the legal successors of former social enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69188	The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69189	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Well, in front of us is a very short proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Property and other real rights, and by looking at the number of articles, it may be possible to do so on a superficial basis and to say what such small changes and additions of the law can do. However, with detailed reading of these amendments and additions, the law is short, but for Croatia the peasant party is completely unacceptable. The consequences of such a short law are multiple and they are totally unacceptable for us in Croatia and I see that for the same reasons it is unacceptable for some other clubs of opposition parties. In fact, we find the answer from this law and the answer to the question that we asked ourselves after the final opinion of the revision of conversion and privatisation when we proposed concrete conclusions as a club of representatives in order to correct what was done in the conversion and privatisation in accordance with the shortcomings, the failures of the laws at the time, but unfortunately also the extensive interpretation of the legal provisions. At the time, it may not have been clear to the Croatian public or to us in the Croatian Parliament, which is why these conclusions do not want to be accepted which were not improvisation of a particular club but were founded and firmly based on the finding of a state audit, and now we actually see that the government has in fact come up with amendments and additions to the law that will legalise what has been done in the privatisation. Of course we can ask now why illegal privatisations are not annulled. Why is there no return to what is privatized and not entered into the underlying capital? This mainly refers to agricultural land, and in fact the answer is found right here in this law. We further agree with the HSP Club because that was our opinion and we pointed to that. This law goes to complete liberalisation of the real estate market. Our position on real estate is also well known and we think it is necessary for this government to do everything possible to extend the time limit of real estate acquisition and enable the purchase of real estate and particularly land to Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues are opening the door to legalization of the real estate market by simplifying the process here, which is particularly, which is unacceptable for us. Furthermore, this Law leaves the possibility of abuse, abuse of manipulation and possession of real estate precisely through a short process or not binding the tender procedure and competition of offers and price competition. We believe that these three fundamental reasons which have terribly harmful consequences are sufficient reason for the Croatian Peasant's Club not to give support to this law. Our conscience is calmer by pointing to these shortcomings in the first reading. We and our colleagues from other clubs. However, it is obvious that today's government's goal is not to pass laws that will benefit their people, but laws that will please someone who at this point may not be good enough, but we need to protect people's interests from the team and we here in the Croatian Parliament are national representatives. We are the people's representatives. We're not parliamentary representatives, we're not Parliament, we're representing the people who voted for us and who chose us. And that's why, because of those who voted for us, we can't accept this law and we won't support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69190	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69191	Well, it is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who literally said, I quote: "This law opens a complete liberalisation of the real estate market." That is incorrect. This law does not open a complete liberalisation of the real estate market but simplifies the administrative procedure that precedes the purchase contract as such to be suitable for the registration of property rights. So from the 2nd ministry, administrative proceedings are transferred to one ministry. The Secretary of Justice's consent remains. This consent becomes an administrative act. Even in a certain sense of reciprocity, the reciprocitys of all those preconditions that have existed so far so that the valid glass right of ownership remain and further, with only the simplification of the administrative procedure which is now in one ministry. All you said was actually hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69192	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69193	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! It is precisely this proposal that is one confirmation of how dynamically we are the legislative body that harmonizes the adopted laws with the daily needs of citizens, strengthens legal traffic, simplifies the legal procedure, and, above all, strengthens trust in the public books in this case of the land book. Therefore, the practical issue to be addressed in Article 3 of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Act is simplified and I will set a concrete example. In, according to current law, the owner would sell the house or real estate and the contract would always say, "And the rest of the price of" is stated in the contract how "will be paid at the time of the book of real estate on the buyer." And what happens? As a result of the complicated and complex procedure, the owner of the property sold could not receive the price until the property was registered to the buyer. It would only be a note in land books, and the proceedings lasted from one and a half, two to three years because simply the bodies that have solved so far in such a case could not, in such a case, have not been able to resolve it quickly and effectively in a law-based manner quickly. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice has finally come upon itself that these cases are being resolved only by the Ministry of Justice. This strengthens legal certainty and enables the owner who has decided to sell, has already sold the property to get the money and enrolls it on the buyer in land books. We cannot prohibit something that is, according to the Constitution and Article 3 of Article 48, an inviolable right of ownership. If the owner wants to sell it, then it should and should be made possible in the law of that way. It is also important that if it is important for the acquisition of property rights, it is necessary that the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary that the legal work aimed at obtaining this right does not produce a legal effect without the consent of the competent Minister for Justice Affairs. It also contributes to Article 6 of one legal certainty, in fact, to combat in one way the possibility of illegal construction by implementing these amendments and additions to the government's policy, which has shown a stop to illegal construction, and this should not only be the task of the Environmental Protection Act or construction procedures, but this also solves the issue of the Law on Property and other real rights as we will later see about the Law of Execution. I would also point out in this case that in this way and protect the additional maritime good for which a cadastre and maritime good border should be established as soon as possible, no matter how long that limit is and what costs will be required. I believe that this effort will also bear fruit so that Article 8 where it is stated that units of local and regional self-government can be easily sold in a very simple way, that the headships of these units can be sold at a fixed market price without the public tender being carried out very clearly because in practice it has caused a major problem not only for local and regional self-government units but also for owners it has made it difficult and slowed down the process, and dissatisfaction has been both sides, and it has always been criticised that the state administration is ineffective. And it has already been time for these procedures to be speeded up this very way. Therefore, this law should be supported and adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69194	Replica. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69195	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague. You are in vain to explain that the third article is not a liberalisation of how foreign citizens can acquire property over real estate in the Republic of Croatia. You can call it simplification any way you want. According to the one, "it is not a neck but a neck" but it is simple, clear, unmistakable. Because of the fact that you've put mutuality, and we don't have a mutual agreement. We will have it tomorrow with those members of the European Union who are interested in their citizens being able to bail in Croatia, which is now cheap to resell afterwards. Don't bother. That's the way it is. It is total liberalisation that even the most liberal liberals in Croatia would probably not suggest what you have now proposed. Simplification you can say is a simplification but not a simplification. So, the thing is simple. It is total liberalisation to pit what is still valuable in Croatia, to pit those who have nothing to do with Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69196	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69197	It is precisely this draft law in this section in Article 3 that speeds up, efficient and modern simplification of legal procedure. Now you have a job, you have a contract, a contract is delivered with the necessary documents to the Foreign Ministry. The foreign ministry returns it to the Justice Department. The Ministry of Justice returns to the party or if there is a shortage then the Foreign Ministry returns it to the party. The basic principle of Articles 3 and 48 is here. The Constitution is inviolable to the right of ownership. The seller decided to sell something under the law and regulations of the Republic of Croatia, and this should be made possible and simplified. In this way nothing will be sold out nor is it a difference compared to other countries of Europe, because the certificates speak where the old house, was restored precisely in the spirit of the ambience of architecture where it was made. Our man does not sell the house to buy yachts or cars but to buy other real estate or to educate children or to protect health and therefore I am out of practice to support this law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69198	Thank you. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69199	Thank you, Mr. President, for your honor of the secretary of state, your colleagues and your colleagues. Proposer, i.e. The government represents the public this proposal of law as one of the ways in which, first of all, the simplification of enrolment in land books and resolutions often, in fact, very complicated ownership-legal relations, more so than they have been dealt with for years, at least in an adequate manner and at the right time. However, what the promoter hides almost as a snake's feet is what was already here on behalf of certain clubs and pointed out, and this is one liberalisation of the real estate market mainly of what remains and remains in state ownership, i.e. the ownership of units of local self-government or what needs to be done and what should be used in general. It is often heard from representatives of local self-government units, from those who and the authorities have not received a mandate and we can do what we want with city property, municipal property because we have a mandate. However, this very law specifically states that, and this is particularly problematic for me, not even so much of this regulation on simplifying and shortening the procedure for granting consent to foreign persons. It is merely a continuation of a very dangerous provision in Article 8 in which the Government, or the Proposer, does not hide what it intends to do. Therefore, this article and almost all the law facilitates the availability of real estate. However, no authority has been given the authority to reduce property, to reduce the right to dispose, or the amount of such rights, and to own property, but to enrich it. However, the sale is further debated and this law is broad, the door is open. It's almost a message, but that's not what the government is saying, even though it's explicitly explained and it says certain provisions, it's almost as if the message has been sent by the peoples, especially the neighbors, and it's almost gone. It's something that's contrary to the constantly declared, to God's word, in fact, it's now seen that it's just a declarative commitment by the government to protect its own property. As far as we've heard from our prime minister and the entire administration, we'll do everything we can to protect our properties on the sea, on the coast, so we've passed a few laws on the right of the first purchase. It would be very interesting to see if this provision was followed and what the state bought. It has not bought anything, but remains almost no law which does not or does not liberalise the real estate market and does not even dispute those properties owned by private persons. citizens or even individual legal persons. But what is particularly worrying is that in this way it is liberalized, that is, opening up almost and calling on buyers to purchase state property on property owned by local self-government units. And I'm saying that's what's particularly worrying. Instead of taking advantage of this approach period, this approach period is precisely in the formation of so-called norms and such protective mechanisms that will not be discriminatory, but that will be protected precisely in the sense in which the Government declares itself. So you're saying one thing, and it seems quite different. And those standards that are in the best interest of simplifying the procedure in terms of resolving and facilitating the registration of ownership rights will cause unprecedented problems in the courts themselves. Article 1 introduces almost the duality of ownership with which we have had just so many problems, and when the Law on Property and other real rights was passed, he finally wanted to establish the unity of ownership rights. Now here we have one norm that will create I say great problems. And the proposer doesn't know what's really going on with the real estate and what's been going on with the real estate. How is it possible to implement this provision that is so praised because we still have and there was something that we should do, but not in this way with regard to the registration of property rights on special parts of the building. It is said here that this will not be possible now unless the confirmation of the competent authority, of course of the administrative bodies, is contributed, whether it is therefore both the building permit and the use of the permit. But what about the real estate built until 1968? How will a record be conducted of those properties that they have, for example, where did the heirs execute the division of these older properties? So this will cause, with this intensities to simplify the procedure, to cause untold problems to courts and to those competent authorities who resolve it. So you just don't know each other, like you're running away from reality. But reality is much more complicated than it is here with one very narrow norm, or it is broad, it is descriptive but that is why it is very narrow and did not cover a whole series of difficult situations that are almost impossible today. And so instead of that norm being so simple, but to embrace, and to that extent abstract to cover all these cases, it will cause a further series of difficulties. How is this going to happen, so I ask the Proposer to answer this question, Madam Secretary of State, how will these problems be solved? How will an inheritance solution be implemented over these older buildings? Because we know that the administrative regime of these buildings that they didn't need was a building permit until 1968. This is now an imperative norm that doesn't know cases like this. Which means it's also applied to cases like that. Once again, I would like to return to the provision of Article 6 which is indeed a good intention of making it easier to record these properties, such as the proposer in reasoning and speaking, which is the property of which, therefore, is based on the Law on the Nationalisation of Rental Buildings, Building Land, the Making of Use, the right to use over this building land and, therefore, on such situations where the building was built, and possibly there was once a right to use. And now it's good intensities of the proposer, because it's partly right and this argument is therefore a good part and it says that there are often no such legal clues about the possession of the previous owner or user, and most often it was social property. But then you see the promoter has drawn up such a norm which is also inexecutable. Because he is just saying that the right to enter property on such property could be exercised, a executive decision by the authorities that have been granted the right to use in order to build a building. And just as it is said, it wants to facilitate the registration of the right of ownership of a building that was built on such property, for which there are often no legal clues. Finally, the right of ownership under existing laws which do not change the provisions is achieved by building. It's one of the legal grounds. But we also see a whole series here... which are then just maybe in the best of intentions that can then happen here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is particularly dangerous is that the units of local self-government are taught what I said and in an explanation, and what is stated in the reasoning of Article 8 that units of local self-government when it comes to smaller surfaces can sell such particles, i.e. parts of particles or land without a public tender. Instead of sharpening control of such properties by the state here is still liberalizing. Of course, this also raises doubts about a fair and fair availability, that is, the management of the property of local self - government units. So, again to conclude, I cannot support this proposal of the Law on Property and other real rights because the proposer did not protect it but, in fact, placed it on the market, almost as an advert for the sale of property owned by the state and units of local self-government, which is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69200	At 10.48, it was time to report a debate of 10 minutes per item of the agenda. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69201	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, ownership is one of the greatest values of our system. The real property is guaranteed by our Constitution. It can only be limited by law, only in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why every intervention in the Property Act and other real rights is very interesting, and in public, we actually look at it with special attention. I must admit that I am fully exposed by a representative of my club, a HDZ club colleague Tomljenovic, here. And I don't really see any controversial big points about this Law and the Racio Legis of this Law is really that they want to simplify certain procedures, that they want what has been established and detected in practice as one problem in the book of ownership rights that they simply want to simplify it. I do not see in this law any desire for the market to be further liberalised or for the sale of property in the Republic of Croatia for a purely reason why we need to know that we have not had a ban so far. We have had the opportunity for foreign natural and legal persons and for us to acquire property on real estate based on the principle of reciprocity. This means under the conditions under which our people can acquire ownership in their countries. We have this principle of reciprocity with most European countries and you are on the side so these foreigners have been able to buy real estate with us so far. What is going on with the unifying of proceedings within the Ministry of Justice does not mean that any phase of this process of granting consent, that any phase of granting consent is left out, that this procedure is more important than it is so far. Therefore, all the facts must be established in the process of granting such consent as they had to do so so far, but the difference is the only thing that is done within the Ministry of Justice is not broken down into two, so as it has been so far that one part has been carried out by the Ministry of Justice, and the other part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that I think it is unquestionable and here I think that these proposals that went by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice to make it very clear in the law that this agreement that the minister is responsible for the affairs of the judiciary gives, that this is an administrative act. I think that it is necessary to write in the law certainly because there is one decision of the Constitutional Court that has deleted one of the provisions from which it has actually been read that consent is an administrative act. That should be very clear and precise. As regards the provision of Article 390, it is the fact that a company as a legal follower of a social undertaking after the completion of a social property conversion that there is an owner of a property that, on the date of the assessment of the value of the underlying capital in the privatisation process, was a social property with the right to use and make available to the predecessors, that of which it could be the subject of acquisition of the right of ownership and whose value was assessed in the capital of the company and which, by the competent authority, was shown in the capital of the company. It is, in my opinion, the same correct provision that simplifies and makes it easier to enroll, and I would not mix this provision of the Property Act with those irregularities that are often highlighted in terms of privatisation. We've had State Audit reports, we've made very correct conclusions that we've committed both the State's Attorney's Office and all the other bodies to take all the actions that are within their jurisdiction to sanction all those irregularities that have been made in conversion and privatisation. This Property Act cannot come from such negative assumptions, this Law on Property and Real Rights must enable those who have worked correctly in privatisation to correctly enroll their right of ownership. This which the subjects who are meaning in one unauthorized, unconstitutional, immoral way acquired the right of ownership exists even now, and there were earlier legal grounds for sanctioning it. It will go according to the following points of the amendment and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, we see that the Law on the State's Attorney's Office is increasingly and better elaborated on those provisions regarding the organisation of the State's Attorney's Office, the part of it that deals with civil matters, and in fact, we expect in the future to do much more than has been done so far in that segment. It is also related to the provision of Article 8 which states that and which stipulates that land owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government of such units can be sold at a fixed market price without public tendering in these two situations. There was also a debate in the first reading. I support this provision because so far we have had a regulation that units of local self-government had to call a tender even though there were no other interested parties in the competitions. This is therefore about real estate where someone has already built some real estate according to the location permit and now to form a plot, there is still a piece of real estate missing and there is a possibility for local self-government that this smaller property is directly contracted, but at the market price indicated here in the Law, this market price can also be determined through tax administration data and through a competent court expert. It means he can sell with a direct contract so that such a person can form a building plot. So I think this is one technical law, that these are one of the changes that are based precisely on the desire to simplify the procedure and that what has already been established in the system of functioning for things to be brought into a reasonable framework. I don't think we should be afraid of some kind of massive sale and all that, it would be even good to go out with some kind of data and an analysis to see how much of it is in our real estate, how much of it, how many strangers have bought so far because there's not been any real estate bans yet. We need to make some other documents, which we've already made, I think it's important that we have that protection belt miles to the coast that it can't be built except under special conditions and special approvals. I think we did a good thing when we introduced the first purchase right to land on the islands, and so it seems to me that this government cares a lot, and that's one very correct policy. Of course, we cannot lead this country into the European Union and build a wall at the same time and impose bans. We must be an integrated part of the European Union and we must accept all the rules of conduct and all the laws that apply there, but of course protect our best interest as far as we seem to have done very, very well in these laws. I absolutely support this law and I will vote for its entry into force and adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69202	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69203	Well, well-respected Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm very glad that just as the chairman of the Assembly Committee, he mentioned the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament of 15 December last year that we brought about sanctioning conversion and privatisation and all the malversions, the illegalities that have been done in this regard. You know for yourself that out of the thousands of 556 cases that the State Audit has controlled that it has established in a thousand 481 cases that the conversion and privatisation has been unlawfully carried out and we have reached conclusions by which we have committed all the competent authorities as well as the Government, the Fund, the State's Attorney's Office to this day not one procedure for the annulment or advertising of invalidity has been launched. So it's been over six months. None of the procedures have been initiated. What's he saying? Smart enough. So, you've reached conclusions, but we'll do the work we've been doing. So no one's doing anything about it. 95, a colleague mentioned this, 95.17% of the state audit found that conversion and privatisation had been carried out illegally. The competent authorities have not initiated any case of annulment or advertising of invalidity. We have more eclectic examples such as the Zagreb tobacco factory, NA-MA, every day there are more and more such cases. And what you say as a representative of the ruling authorities is why they do not do their job according to the conclusions and obligations that we have given representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69204	Reply to the replica, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69205	A colleague of Kovacevic, six months is not really a long time after which we should seek an immediate first report. This report will be seen in the following year, but it seems to me that this thesis of privatisation and conversion and the creation of one image as a matter of fact that the whole process of robbery is illegal and with your 95% that are very explicitly written, however, this 90% does not mean that everything you know is illegal and that everything needs to be annulled and abolished. Many of these 95% refer to formal irregularities based on which there is no condition to undo the whole conversion, so I think this very skillfully uses this conversion that we keep sending to people one false message that everything has been robbed, that everything has been destroyed and it's not really true. Because if that were true, this country wouldn't be here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69206	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69207	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Every government of ours is called the Croatian Government, we are called the Croatian Parliament. So we must protect the Croatian interests, interests of Croatian citizens and therefore I suggest you withdraw this law today if you are a representative of the Croatian Government and if you intend to protect Croatian national interests. What makes me say that? I say for the sake of these three situations put into this law. First, it refers to total liberalisation of allowing foreign and natural persons to acquire property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Our proposal that we had a year ago at the HSP Club, you said you were working on it, that you would do it. In such and similar variants, we have proposed the right to buy and other situations, so because of the constitutional provision, we do not intend to restrict the right of ownership to Croatian natural or legal persons, but rather, to protect the national interests of Croatia, and that is because the second is the price of real estate when Croatia enters the European Union and will be able to sell the property at a much higher price. This completely liberalizes it, you can call it simplifying the process but the fact itself is simply contained in Article 3 amending Article 2 of Article 356 because it is sufficient, it says this on the assumption of reciprocity. We heard what the President of the European Union asked us to do, and we immediately did. These were our main objections when he held up, why you're afraid to sell us real estate. Don't be afraid, we'll know better than you, we'll know this, we'll know that. That's what he said, that's what happened. And it was automatically that note from the Government of Italy about that part. She didn't even answer, but she answered in the legal text. So it's not true that Royce's "He who's pitting, he's pitting.". However, it is now possible for others to pit what remains valuable in Croatia and another important thing about it, regardless of what you talk about and how hard you try to convince someone you can't even convince yourself that this isn't total liberalisation, especially someone else or third, and we from the HSP Club certainly can't. The other important thing is this, we were talking about conversion and privatisation. We know what the situation is, you can say it was like this or something, but the state's audit said it. She said of the thousands of 556 cases that in a thousand 481 she found that the conversion or privatisation was carried out in an illegal manner. And for this reason, we have proposed the text of the law to make a distinction about the form in which the law has been violated and the illegality of the word, so we have proposed nothingness or annulment in eclative cases. In everyone else's ownership check. And now, instead of being, it's not even being followed by those conclusions. However, a new article is put in place that allows for Article 7 which is Article 390a. Which just as it is visible here that there are both TDRs and many others, is now going on to them, so what is estimated no matter how it is estimated at a given time is yours, and the rest of them should talk about what the results of the state audit are and how, how it's going to work. I mean, these are such messages to the Croatian public, workers who stayed on the road, workers who didn't get anything, who are unemployed today, and we're talking about protecting Croatian national interests. We saw last night the Croatian national interests are protected in amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank, so don't suggest anything better at all and say that you are protecting national interests. It would be far better if you didn't suggest anything than to pass laws saying we were protecting national interests. And as part of this law, in particular, this provision of Article 8 applies to the amendment of Article 391(2) and this is such an argument that it is inconceivable... facilitates the availability of real estate in local self-government units with local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we have a particularly good example of the city of Zagreb. This is going to be really good for him. On the one hand, it goes to the authority of the poor woman for no money and then to the tycoon for those who participate in the conversion and privatisation, and then they will build huge buildings, buildings or holding or other legal persons, and normally all of these authorities as well as the city of Zagreb will say so it is all in the interest of the general, economic and social progress of her citizens. If we're in favour of the competition, if we're in favour of protection, then how did the cities get to these properties? They came through this part that it became socially theirs. We know the course and the procedure of it all. So what are we talking about here? Whose interests are we protecting here? So in this law we protect interests, the bill protects the interests of foreigners, foreign individuals. It's not my interest to protect their interests. Neither I am therefore elected to the Croatian Assembly nor any of you here to be elected to the Croatian Assembly. Secondly, you are protecting the interests of those who have been pitted in conversion and privatisation. That's why the Croatian people didn't choose us. Yes, of course. He chose us to sanction that part. And thirdly, you protect the interest of those who are powerful in the heads of cities and municipalities who do not behave according to what the people have given them to govern in their name, but rather manage in the name of their own likeness, which will enable them to acquire real estate and build what they think is necessary to build, and then the people will convince them that it is for them. So don't protect me again and withdraw all these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69208	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69209	It is precisely the repetition of new inaccuracies of order to correct at least these two inaccuracies, and that is, no one can acquire ownership under only this proposed amendment and the addition of the law because it belongs to it, and it belongs to that stranger according to the rules so far. It just wants to simplify the procedure precisely on the initiative and demand of our sellers, not at the request of the President of the European Commission who has insisted or mentioned that real estate trading should actually be regulated in a standardised European way. Our seller's claim that he won't get the money until the right to claim the property of the buyer on his behalf in the land books. It's a practical application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69210	Second correction, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69211	It is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who said this law protects the interests of local powerful men. If this is about disposing of property into, ownership of property in units of local self-government. The law's intensity is that it's real estate up to 20% of the total area that is just being displayed in this way in order to make it possible to form building particles, that's what this is about. The legislator's intensities are that in these situations that are present on the ground on a daily basis, local self-government units are not exposed to additional costs of publishing public tenders and paying for these public tenders to be sold often times 4, 5, 10 or 15 square meters so that people on the ground can solve their problems. So it's absolutely incorrect and you've even presented this legal institute as a favor to anyone, especially to the heads of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69212	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69213	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has violated Article 209 because he is correcting my opinion. What he's saying isn't correcting an incorrect quote. Maybe it's for you in charge because that's what you agreed, but it's not for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69214	Don't, don't. It's nothing to correct an opinion but a expressed, expressed attitude. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. ... The opinion is what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, that's a claim. [[What is it? A claim?]] I know a very good Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69215	Read the Rules of Procedure and you will see.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69216	No, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, I didn't. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected State Secretary, colleagues, fellow MPs. So should we really calmly and soberly analyze the range and attempts of this law what does it want to solve? A significant change from the first reading is really the introduction of a provision on the right to buy foreign real estate in the Republic of Croatia. This in a certain sense is to facilitate the purchase of foreign real estate in Croatia, and from that point of view I can only say the question is somewhat the political credibility of the proposer. Nothing else. And I have nothing to add. If reciprocity is to continue to be examined in the purchase so that Croatian citizens can buy in other countries that they have the same right to citizens of those countries in Croatia. It's a certain relief, but I don't mind. It is a matter of the credibility of the political proposal. However, when it comes to Article 6 of this Act or Article 368, paragraph 3 amending the Law on Real Rights, Property and other Real Rights then it becomes a truly dubious solution. Here's why. It's definitely an attempt to legalize conversion. So now the HDZ colleagues have even said that ownership of real estate acquired in conversion can be acquired and acquired under our positive Law on Ownership Rights by enrolment in land books. And now we're ex-legations, so by law, we're legalizing it once more. And here, in your argument, you claim as proposing that in the process of converting and assessing companies that have been pretending and other legal persons are not established the right to ownership then the right to management, use and availability which is the content of ownership. Which is property content. It says in the explanation that it wasn't done. That's why there's no legal continuity to book in land books. That's the reason. He's gone. So, what is in Article 7 of Article 390? You even say the property law on the day of the assessment by not falling into validity, quality, validity, justice and judgment. If only it had been said that the assessment was valid so that someone confirmed that assessment then we could talk about some continuity legally. But we have established by the Constitution the continuity of the legal and all legal affairs concluded before today. We didn't undo anything. So this is, this question as far as this law goes? This is an attempt to really, to be mutilated in conversion and what effects it will produce we don't know. We don't really know that. When it comes to Article 8, 7 further real estate assessments at the time of conversion and privatisation did not have and could not have today’s conditions and today’s laws in mind. Well, it's not the same defined maritime well today and in '91, '92. and '93. A year. It's not the same. We changed some laws and some provisions and decided otherwise what was a maritime good. And we say on the day of the evaluation they'll sign up. What are the effects of this assessment? Will someone who's been up to the sea enroll in the property of the company? How not when it's the day of my colleagues' assessment! It won't or won't. And there's one more thing to tell you. In the case of Article 8 and Article 391, paragraph 2, paragraph 3 is added, and says that land owned by units of local, regional self-government will be able to sell those units at a fixed market price. If there is also one parameter on which it will be established under the alleged signs of market price. What? Where does it say that? Why wouldn't he? But wait, it's art, but on what basis is the art of fellow Bosnjakovic? It is not from the fingertips and is not the same market price under Sljemena and Turopolje. But there is, therefore, a colleague we leave behind, we leave an unresolved legal gap, and we could at least specify that the price will be formed on the basis of the market prices achieved in the area of local or unit, local units or at least in the area of a detailed urban plan. There's no closer definition here. Let's leave it to the witches, and when it comes to the witches and the prices, then I'll call on what the Zagorians said, if it's the witches and the cow witnesses, it's ours. The cow is ours or a horse dealer. They asked him what the price of a horse was. He says he's either buying or selling. It's all left for future manifestations. This Regulation shall enter I think it's much better and fairer and for those who have out-of-book property that the owners of apartments outside the library are enrolled in the books of the ID than is offered here. No, each of these colleagues who spin their heads will say that property is binding because it's a legal obligation, and we'll let the construction profession expert determine that the apartment or something that looks like the apartment is an economic whole, and we won't determine how ideal parts of the building are owned by that apartment, so the formation of the reserve depends on, which is determined by the witches, and not by the real property in that building, so there will be disputes about how we'll reflect the roof, how the gutters, how the halls and other common parts will say I own only the apartment. I don't own other parts. And when you're still here, you're suggesting that it's done by administration and evaluation in buildings that don't have a valid permit or a building permit, and they've become legal because they were built in Zagreb before '73. Or '68. We're going to lead to, for example, the formerly acquired tenants, just a little bit of housing law, and they bought that part of the apartment, and it never became an economic whole. They had either a common laundry room or a common toilet or something else and he could not, by construction rules, become an economic unit. We're gonna shut him out of this. 'Cause he can't get a whole through management. There are building ropes, construction rules exist, and we won't be able to implement it. That's why I think it would be here, and that's not how it's gonna solve the essence of staging and enrolling property in residential and other buildings anyway. It would be better to leave a valid existing solution. Put it in the I.D. book. Allow traffic of ownership and housing. This gives some legal certainty in the market parts of buildings and does not work traffic past the state and past tax collection. This often happens less and less of course because people are untrustworthy. But there's still traffic going on without being registered because there's nowhere to register. Pay taxes, not write. That's no longer interesting to anyone. In other words, I am convinced that this law was in good interest, but I repeat again. He'll only legalize the conversion of whatever she was. We can say it's a robbery, we can say it isn't. We can say that it's a product of sin structure or that it's not. But we'll legalize what we don't know. Each privatisation has its own name and last name and its own conditions for enrolment in land books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69218	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69219	Dear colleague Leko said that it is important that the paper of this law introduces rights for foreigners to buy real estate with us. I think that's an incorrect quote because foreigners and under the applicable law can buy real estate with us, in principle of reciprocity, and this only changes the procedure that actually gives power to one ministry instead of two. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69220	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69221	Mr. President, counterpart Bosnjakovic deliberately left out that I said it was important news compared to the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69222	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69223	So I'm going to try to be precise in terms of correcting the incorrect assumption because it's incorrect that the esteemed colleague Leko said the provision of Article 390a. legalisation of illegal conversion. It is not legalisation of any conversion but it is an institute which simplifies the registration of the right of ownership of former social companies' legal successors with a cumulatively prescribed three conditions and for the first time we have a positive, not a negative definition so that these, and legal persons, can therefore enroll their property in the garnery. It is not about any legalisation of illegal conversion or any conduct, nor anything in this regard, but rather about a clearly developed legal institute to register the legal followers of former social enterprises with their property in the garnery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69224	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69225	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. You are rightly respected fellow when you claim as I do that Article 7 means Article 390 legalization of illegality in conversion, because of the fact that, in addition, the conversion could not be carried out under the law unless there was an assessment and if that assessment was not verified at that time by the SDK, by the competent authority. The NAMA case and many others are talking about the conversion, it went into privatisation after that, and no conversion was made. And it's now a clean legalization of all that because something that wasn't converted couldn't be converted because there was no assessment, there was no valid assessment and no assessment that was certified by the competent authority could not go into privatisation. And now you're making it possible. That's my addendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69226	We're going to a five-minute debate. Honorable representative Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69227	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here, this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Property Supplements, and other things, the law is actually full of compromises. Although it is important that an important law which should certainly be seen within the framework of other laws offers certain changes, particularly in view of the unit of local self-government for them, provides a normative framework for handling when there is no obligation to call a public tender. To achieve a more efficient and faster resolution of the disposing of property, which is owned by them, shall be determined in one hand. But right here, I'd like to stop. I must tell you that I am afraid there will be an abuse of this law. Real estate in Croatia should primarily be distributed to concessions, especially in the case of potential foreigners who want to buy or own property in Croatia. I think the solution is primarily to give these properties into concessions until the moment that Croatian citizens reach that gross social income that foreigners also have. Then we can start talking about selling at the level of reciprocity, as my colleague Leko said. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that in the application of this law, as is the case, there will be a large number of damages. In particular, this law particularly goes hand in hand to those who have made it to real estate within ten years, i.e. in five years of privatising how much this procedure has been carried out, because this will result in the absolute legality of all those properties that were included in that capital through the privatisation process. And I think we really need to take a little more care of that. I think the thing frames even though as a framework, as a procedure, could be good but I'm afraid it's just going to be misused for the purpose of legality, or legalized by those situations that we know there are in large numbers. I'm afraid they can be devolved in practice, not applied. So in the appropriate ways, we will not achieve what is the fundamental intensity of this law. Although I'm saying I think it was done for a good cause. How the headship will sell land owned by units of local self-government without a public tender is a question that is certainly imposed, especially in the light of the environment, I will say smaller environments, especially in view of various family ties, family ties, friendly relationships. I think we in Croatia are very often witnesses to this. Whether or not to be manipulated when establishing a market price is also an important issue. The proposed solution sets out an improvement compared to the existing one. However, it is still insufficient because there are no clear and more precise criteria for the determination of market prices and a large, large space for various manipulations. And finally maybe those are all the questions gentlemen who certainly impose on you and not just me here. It is a small shift in the improvement of this whole practice. However, we at the Croatian People's Party club will not support this bill, the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69228	Thank you. For the HSS club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69229	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, well, it is truly surprising that this important, short, but important law takes place on Friday when we are mostly all exhausted after a three-day, or four-day session. However, as I said in my first presentation, this is about a law that is short but long-term leaves inexplicably harmful consequences for the Croatian people. We consider it necessary to repeat what we said in our first reading. Two opinions were crystallized here during the debate. One opinion and the position of opposition clubs that say the result of this law is the legalisation of illegal conversion and privatisation and liberalisation of the market and the opening of the possibility of abuse by the availability of real estate. The second part, the ruling opposition, it contests. However, no matter how disputable the arguments of the dispute are, they are not convincing. The fact is, and the message is that this law really legalizes what was done in the '93 period. and '95. A year. The revision of conversion and privatisation found that part was made due to the failures in the laws. And what's happening to us now? The intention of opening up a revision of conversion and privatisation was to sanction illegalities. However, this law now gives legal support to what was then missed or made by extensive interpretation of the law. I don't think it's even a coincidence that it's ending now, which is why this government is finishing the same political options that the government opened in '93, '94, '95. A year. Furthermore, this is really about the liberalisation of the real estate market through the simplification of the process. Here on the spot offers what is our natural wealth, which is our wealth, and we do not understand the value of this natural wealth, others have understood that, rather than protecting our citizens, to preserve this natural wealth, to enable them to enjoy the fruits of this natural wealth, we offer this natural wealth to others. What does this Law mean for our peasants, what does this Law mean for agricultural land? Today we have 400 thousand hectares of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. You are witnessing that we have begun the process of making agricultural land available, that this process was stopped in 2004, that today there is a dissatisfaction of peasants because they cannot buy, not profit, but buy this agricultural land so that they can plan their future in the long term, but they do not give consent to the Ministry of Agriculture or to the programmes available, or to the competitions, and what can we now interpret? That we did not actually agree because this Law was planned to open a competition with our citizens starting with weights that will not allow them to finish that race successfully. And finally, what is the mission of this government? Should this government protect the interests of those to whom it belongs and where it comes from? In the Constitution, it is written with us that the power of the people and that it originates with the people. This is not the government that protects national interests and is not the government that comes from the people. For these three reasons, which I said and in the original debate the Croatian Peasant Party Club will not support this Law and would indeed be proof that the Government is in the service of its people to withdraw this bill from the procedure because the consequences are truly terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69230	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69231	It is incorrect, Madam, that this government does not protect national interests, because this is the government that proposed to this House a law no longer to sell land or islands but to go to concessions in order not to allow someone to come tomorrow and to buy that national wealth. It's only one proof of how this government protects national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69232	For the SDP club, 5 minutes of debate, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69233	Thank you, Mr. President, for your honor of the secretary of state, your colleagues and your colleagues. As it was introduced and said, the SDP club cannot support this Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights above all because this Law of Croatia shows, unfortunately, once again that it is not, that it is not always someone's client and never equal partner, that it has fallen into the protection of declared and declared interests, which is primarily the protection of our property, the protection of property in state property and the protection of property owned by units of local self-government. With this bill, therefore, and what should have been sanctioned and found ways and ways to convert and privatise now, we are merely making it easier for the team to enter the right of ownership. For the citizens, the procedure remained irrevocably difficult. I would like to draw attention on behalf of the SDP Club to something that has not been pointed out so far, which is also very dangerous. In this regard, Article 8 states that local self-government units will just give the person who owns the property without a building permit or other relevant act to build the building and is missing 20%. So we point to this example of one non-discipline, non-consequence. Therefore, in Article 1 of this proposal, we introduce the duality of ownership in view of the already entered properties and the possibility of the previous staging, i.e. the current staging on these buildings that were built before '74, or before '68. In this regard, we say that the registration and registration of property rights on parts of the property will not be possible without the necessary administrative authority documents, which is usually a building permit and a useful permit until you see here in Article 8 Benevolently and without a competition we give to certain persons so that they built on their land without a building permit real estate, but which is needed by some 20 % of the area for rounding and one possible good management of this property. So we're pointing to just this kind of indiscipline. Furthermore, in the provision of Article 10, which has also not been pointed out, I think it is very dangerous to set up the criteria, to make the criteria for the establishment of ownership, this has never been a fact drawn up so far, so part of the building drawn in a catastrian operation, and most of the objections is precisely by the citizens regarding the enrolment that is being made, because of course this has been speeded up and arranged so it is possible, I am not talking about intentional but unintended errors. So this criterion of establishing the right of ownership that has always been in the domain of the judicial authorities is now the very fact that someone drew something in a catastrian operation becomes the basis for enrolment of ownership rights. This is something that is very dangerous, and we are introducing this duality and I say in a different way in the provision of Article 1, it has not been so far, there is no one against our norm being ruled by both the administrative law and those concerned by the judicial authorities as property rights, in the end we know that the right to ownership and to be entered in the land book, but that it is decided by the court under the basic law, the Law of Ownership, therefore it is a shame that the basis for the registration of ownership comes therefore from unacceptable administrative solutions for us, and especially as this is specifically mentioned in the provision of Article 10, so that a single sketch of the building that has been drawn up in the catastrian operator would be the basis for enrollment of the right of ownership. And once again, I draw particular attention to the inaccessibility of liberalisation and the negligent state to protect what is in its possession. Let's let go of private property now because the state can show up here and make amends. She tried that right of the first purchase that simply doesn't apply at all. So no one would object to us if we were to be consequential, if we were to protect in a non-discriminatory way the property owned by the state and the units of local self-government. This is how I say it one more time, we've just given it to this bill of law instead of protecting them and increasing it simply on the ad. This is an advertising board for the sale of our property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69234	Thank you. The final review of the Ministry of Justice, Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69235	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! It's said here that it's a short law by the number of articles but extremely important, and that's true. That's what this debate shows. And so let me finally, given the topics that are open and forgive me if I'm going to be something longer in my final review of what is now being said on the final proposal of this law. Namely, this is the Croatian government and the law is well-intentioned and there is no hidden intention or sale of Croatian national interests. In fact, it has been said that we are not struggling and that we will not convince anyone when we say that this is not about the liberalisation of the real estate market when it comes to allowing foreigners to acquire real estate in the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, it is not about liberalising or opening up the real estate market to foreigners in the Republic of Croatia at the moment. True, it's about changing the legal provision that spoke about the procedure and it really is about simplifying the procedure because if you go from two bodies to one body then that is... procedures because your administration is shrinking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hopefully, and the assumption was that it was going on shorter, but it wasn't liberalisation. Except for the fact that we don't have two ministries to decide on, but one thing hasn't changed in the existing legal provisions. But let me remind you of one fact. She's gonna... from the context of these amendments to these amendments and additions and it speaks of that, according to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have assumed some obligations, which means international obligations of the Republic of Croatia to be respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are asking Croatia at this time to apply the existing provisions relating to the acquisition of rights of ownership of foreigners. They also make a commitment to Croatia to gradually coordinate... legislation relating to the acquisition of the right of ownership of foreigners in order to ensure that, at the end of the four years following the entry into force of the agreement, so until 1 February... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the year allowed citizens of the European Union to acquire real estate in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I see plates are rising on correcting an incorrect quote. But that's true. The truth is, it doesn't apply to... real estate from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Agreement shall apply to protected parts of agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the situation is still such that the provisions of the special legislation of the Republic of Croatia relating to the acquisition of the rights of ownership of foreigners are still in force, so on the current provisions which now propose a change in the way that only one ministry now gives consent to this. Therefore, the provisions of this law which relate to the fact that foreign persons can acquire real estate, property of real estate in the Republic of Croatia on the condition of reciprocity, so... The reciprocity is still sought and it is necessary for the acquisition of the rights of ownership of foreigners and will be assessed in the future, and thus also with the Republic of Italy on the one hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the agreement of the Ministry of Justice remains under this proposal for the acquisition of the rights of ownership of foreigners. Therefore, even in future parties under the applicable provisions, they will not be able to acquire real estate without agreement under this proposal only by the Ministry of Justice. We can ask ourselves here how we can make Croatian that we delay the proceedings in force and that the proceedings last two or three years. The question is, we can ask that foreign persons may be in a more unfavourable position than our domestics. It is known that in Croatia the procedures of the administration and others take a long time, and it is justified that the interest and right of those who wish to exercise some right in Croatia should be required to continue as short as possible. And we can set things another way. If we have a procedure that is clear and which is relatively short, we create space or reduce space for so-called. The gray market. In these discussions which have now been opened in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, one of the most sensitive issues and legitimately complex issues is how and how we will protect our property, our good where we can still stay outside of the agreement so that it remains for the benefit of all of us here in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, outside this legal provision there is a way for foreigners to acquire real estate, which is more written, different analyses have been made. One is to start a company that becomes a domestic company and it can acquire real estate like in the Republic of Croatia. Several times in discussions on the existence of this gray market there has been talk of simply selling real estate, not enrolling in land books because it is waiting for this four-year deadline to pass... acquisition of rights of ownership of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can ask if this is how we advocate to stay these two steps, so that we don't set the procedure, we might actually be doing some kind of contrast. But I repeat, it's not about liberalising the real estate market, it's really just about changing the procedure so that instead of two bodies consent, it's still only one body that gives consent. Furthermore, when it comes to the sale of our interests and on the other hand their protection I apologize, but indeed, I do not see a direct link between this provision and the provisions relating to the sale of property owned by units of local administration and self-government and under this proposal owned by legal persons owned by the majority of the Republic of Croatia or by regional self-government. In fact, here when it comes to public competition and exceptions from a public tender, I think it is necessary to clarify and make it clear that the public tender or the exception to a public competition will therefore not be the first one in the case where the acquirer on the other hand is also a person of public law. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is a unit of local administrations and self-government or legal persons owned or mostly owned by them. Therefore, when there is legal traffic between the units of these legal entities, there is no competition. So that's the situation. Thus, these foreigners could not, in principle, be in a position to gain. On the other hand, when other people can acquire... when it comes to the formation of a building plot, in accordance with the documents of refurbishing the space when it comes to the formation of building particles, building plots. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are situations where a legitimate economic and logical interest is really being put in place, and that is what we all advocate to introduce order, to sort out these documents of spatial arrangement. That the real state is in line with what is prescribed in the documents of that space. Of course, no one can achieve this for free, so it is proposed that, in this case, we should still pay the market price because we are advocates of the clear rules of the game, and they can be achieved through the market price. Still, what was already in the bill was discussed in the first reading, which is to legalise illegalities here in the transformation of social enterprises. I will still try to explain now again why this is not the case, or why I personally consider it to be the exact opposite. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here remain a provision in the current text of the law that this law does not apply to those things, properties that are not shown in the conversion... companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They remain subject to other changes, others... and other deeds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Things that have not been introduced into the conversion of this law remain, in Article 390, beyond the reach of this law as it should be. However, this law adds a provision that says: "What is, what has become property, a company of commerce in conversion." I'll read it anyway, if I'm going to, I'm sorry if I'm going to be boring. He says, "The company as a legal follower of a social company after the completion of the social property conversion is the owner of a property that, on the day of the assessment of the value of the underlying capital in the process of conversion and privatisation, was a social property with the right to manage, use and dispose of a social company," so on which... the right to manage, which could have been the subject of acquisition of ownership rights. [[You don't understand what I'm saying.]] So not those properties that are legally... they have become State, forest, forest land, maritime goods whose value has been assessed in the company’s capital and which are shown in the company’s capital by the competent authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in addition to these assumptions, all the cumulative ones that are according to the competent authority and this was the Croatian Privatisation Fund shown in the capital of the company. Only such properties are the properties of which the company as a legal... companies can acquire ownership rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the saying is there's no way to make it happen on those properties on which by... regulations that could not enter the conversion and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It certainly does not rule out errors in the conversion where some properties may have entered and what the case is. That is why we believe that through such a provision where it is clearly stated cumulatively where ownership rights could be acquired that at least it will be possible to sign up and leave beyond possible other situations. And another note is that according to Article 73, which is also amended by this law, it is intended to establish a specific ownership of a part of the property of a material property. So it doesn't apply to situations where the building was built before 1968. She's legalized, she's admitted... construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, those provisions, which are amended by the establishment of specific property ownership, should be observed in accordance with those provisions of the law, the head of that law which says first that the property of a specific part of the property is established on the basis of the written consent of all co-owners of that property, and only then does this procedure go where, in Article 70 thereof, the law is clearly amended and says that it can actually be claimed that something was actually made as property in accordance with the regulations. Therefore, only on the basis of a certificate from the competent authority detailing the list and the description of the specific parts. So it is precisely possible through this change that those situations that were in practice which were unclearly prescribed by the existing provision are now removed through this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize again if I was any longer. However, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I had to say that here in this proposal, the law cannot speak of the liberalisation of the real estate market and in this direction the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and the legalisation of what is unlawfully acquired in the conversion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69236	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69237	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is the secretary of state who assures us, saying that this law is proposed in good intentions, reminding that Croatia has made some commitments by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Madam Secretary of State is very well known to us, however, and you are also aware that two and a half years have stopped the process of making agricultural land available and we have had the opportunity to carry out the process of availability by 1.1.2008. Why does the agricultural land supply process not go to the desired time? Because the garters are unedited, which is not regulated by ownership relations, which the grants are not in line with the real state. And now after all that, we get this bill that you say is in good interest. It's hard to believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69238	Correction is an incorrect quote That it's not a good intention [[Intruder: Good intention, not good intent.]] It's a bad idea. [[Intruder: Not a good intention.]] Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. [[Intruder: Bad intention.]] Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69239	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of the State Secretary, which spoke of liberalisation or by simplifying the process of obtaining ownership of foreign and natural legal persons over real estate in Croatia, said: "We must do so for the sake of the international obligations undertaken." The correction is that the Constitution and obligations and the protection of sovereignty and the national interests of Croatian citizens are above the international obligations undertaken. Therefore, it cannot be justified that this must be done for the sake of the international obligations undertaken because the Constitution is stronger than any international treaty and we know it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69240	I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ownership and other real rights. State Secretary Snježana Bagic, a table, several amendments. 1. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69242	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69243	It becomes an integral part of the law. 2. The Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69244	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69245	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3rd Representative of Joseph Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69246	It's unacceptable. Therefore, the question of how it can be discussed about the legality of the assessment in the sense that it is disputed, so it can be talked about the validity and invalidity of the act in which this assessment is made, and in this direction I recall that it is stated in this article that it can only be considered as property, those properties of which are entered into the estimated capital of the company and which, according to the competent authority, are shown in the capital of the company, therefore by the act of that body, including its changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69247	Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69248	Dear Mr. President, the respected secretary of state and you and the entire Croatian people are well aware that the robbery in the conversion and privatisation was carried out through the so-called so-called "Privatisation". Assessing. Therefore, if we do not seek the validity of this act, so confirming by the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia we will assess whether it is fair or unfair, legal or illegal now to bring as a basis for transfer of ownership in conversion and privatisation. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69249	Please vote. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 26 for, 2 abstentions, 61 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Representative Joseph Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69250	It's partially accepted. It is not accepted in the part proposed to replace the word "money" in Article 391 in the new paragraph 4 of the word "prices" in the word "money", and the word "achieves" is replaced by the word "gets", and it accepts in the section proposed to delete the point at the end of the items and add words in the field of units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69251	Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69252	Thank you very much for accepting this, but listen to the sentence so you can decide whether it's logical. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Well the price expressed in price doesn't seem very logical to you, but the price is expressed in money and any value is expressed in money when it comes to the law. When it comes to the law, every value is expressed in money. Secondly, when it comes to price achievement, then it is possible to get that price on the market, and it is not said to be achieved. I think we should accept each other. I agree with what you've accepted, I'm asking for a vote for the rest of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69253	Okay. This accepted, that's fine. About this second thing that's not accepted, I'm asking you to vote. The result? 24 for, 4 abstentions, 56 against. So it's good, it's good. Some are particularly corrected in the vote. 5. The Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69254	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69255	It becomes an integral part of the law. Six. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69256	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69257	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. We can vote. The result? With 66 votes in favour and 25 against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements in the text was adopted, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Let's go to the next point: 24. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extortion, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 419 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snjezana Bagic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69259	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We remain in the area of ownership of legal relations only with the second draft law, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution. Namely, on the basis of the fact that ownership is one of the greatest values and that it should be protected and that its restriction can only be extremely effective in 1994, it came into force, passed and entered into force. Therefore, it was adopted as part of an all-out transformation of the social, political and economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, and, starting from the provisions of the law, constitutional provisions on property integrity. Property as the highest constitutional value on the one hand should also be protected. Therefore, the Institute of Exclusion as its opposite is and must only be an exceptional intervention of the state in ownership powers which can only be limited where necessary, when it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, with the fact that, in the intended use of the property, there must be a greater benefit than that which would be achieved through the use of the property in the present way. Since the law was passed, this law has been amended several times. The most important and important change in this law stemmed from the decision of the Constitutional Court adopted in 2000 concerning actual intervention with regard to the bodies which decide on the extradition in the final instance. Why? Because the Constitutional Court in its decision then had said that and the code of exorcism in... the law or obligations arising from the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms should be decided by law established and impartial court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Starting from such a position two years ago, the Act on Exclusion was amended in a way that now, according to a lawsuit against the final decision on the expropriation, the County Court decided. Therefore, it shall be decided contradictoryly and shall be decided by an independent judicial body that meets the requirements of contradiction. However, since these amendments to the law, when judicial jurisdiction and decision-making under the case of the County Court have been prescribed, it has been omitted, in fact, to provide for two-stage judicial protection because such proceedings are not subject to review and hence, the citizens against whom the extradition procedure is actually conducted remain disabled for the creation of judicial practice or the role of the Supreme Court as the one which enables the equality of the citizens before the law and the uniform case-law. Also, during this period of application of this law, and in order to establish legal certainty in the legal traffic of real estate, there was a need to reintroduce an objective deadline for repealing the rightful expropriation solution. This deadline was otherwise unnecessary at the time of the adoption of the law, given that the concept of the law is based on... the protection of previous owners in accordance with the constitutional provision at the title of the right of ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this is one example of how in fact this path and the protection of an institute can come into a situation that actually has one opposite effect and then we do not gain the purpose or the desired level of balance. Because, in fact, because of the absence of such an objective deadline, a number of people who created the right to expropriate simply were later blocked in the realisation of their rights. Therefore, the need for an objective deadline in which the previous owner, if he wishes, can indeed initiate a procedure for repealing the rightful authorisation solution after which complete legal certainty would arise for that new user or owner of the property so that no one can disprove his right. But it also needs to be made clear that such a situation exists, so the law now proposed, to make a note, in fact, of a ban on availability within five years. Therefore, what is proposed by law, amendments and additions to the Law on Exclusion is the following to introduce an audit, so that the Constitutional Court, under this extraordinary legal remedy, decides on the decisions of the County Court brought on appeal against the decision on the authorisation and that an objective deadline should be introduced for the annulment of the rightful solution, together with the signing of a ban on the availability during that period. Dear ladies and gentlemen, these newspapers, which were related to the regulation of this deadline, were the subject of debate and objection by individual representatives in the first reading. The applicant has carefully considered them, however, and considers it necessary to leave such a deadline in order to have this balance in order to really introduce greater legal certainty. I thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69260	Thank you. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. President of the Committee, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69261	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held at the 59th session on 27 June 2006 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Authorisation submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 14 June 2006. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the final draft law. We particularly support the solution to the introduction of the audit as a larger form of protection for the owners of real estate. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69262	Thank you. The Justice Committee. Honorable representative President Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69263	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 42nd session held on 29 June 2006, the Croatian Judicial Committee discussed the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Extraordination, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 14 June 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in their home working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the final proposal does not contain any significant change. It proposes compliance with the laws governing the spatial-planning arrangement. An objective deadline shall be introduced for the repeal of the exemption decision and, of course, an audit shall be introduced as an extraordinary legal remedy. The debate estimated that the introduction of the Institute of Audits strengthens legal protection, as legal medicines are not allowed after the current solution in proceedings against second-degree extradition solutions. Following the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69264	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69265	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I propose to the Government to withdraw the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Prosecution of Procedure. Because once again, there's room for thieving, that's to legalize thieving. And now with this legal test, we see that the right of ownership is not inalienable, but as part of the expropriation it can simply be done and done under cover of public interest, under the cover that it is thus determined by a spatial, or detailed plan and how it is necessary in a given situation to do so. And especially now that, according to Article 7 of this proposal, it will make it impossible for all of them, this is the burden of Croatian citizens who are in that second group that there have been expropriations over their ownership, whether the expropriation has been carried out. And what you will now tell the vast number of Croatian citizens who today are trying to return to their property because the expropriation or expropriation has been unlawfully and carried out, given the dictation you put in Article 7 that these proceedings can be initiated after 5 years of the power of the decision to grant, i.e. from the day of entry into the property. What you're going to say is, here I have a letter from the Association of Protection of Property Rights in... the field, meaning the same case of expropriation that began during the former communist Yugoslavia in '59. And in '61. A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is about 470 hectares and people since the establishment of the Croatian state are trying to come into possession of something contrary to the regulations, expropriation has been carried out and return their property. They all promised them, and now this is finally putting an end to the case, because they will no longer be able to participate in the procedure related to how you put the diction in Article 7. And now whose interests are they protecting? In this case, do they protect the interest of those who have come into possession, i.e. an illegal example of Enver Muralić, the God of Martinovic, Ragid, Ali Agic, Goran Štrok, whom you protect? Who should be protected by the Croatian Parliament? Croatian citizens. Is the intention to protect the tycoons or is the intention to protect Croatian citizens? Why don't you do your job and let the people who are guaranteed it's theirs to finally get it back to them? Don't make excuses for this, that. For people, the expropriation of the evil times of the communist Yugoslavia was done in an illegal manner. After the establishment of the Croatian state, everyone promised, on the legal texts, everything else. Nothing's done. And they say, we both wrote to Prime Minister Sanader and the minister of former Scare Ozbolt, the current minister, wrote to everyone, no one even received them. No one even received them. And what are we going to do under cover again? You know how it goes, look at the example of extradition in the City of Zagreb and somewhere else where they are, it's easy to come under cover of public interest, so you'll say here you see there should go just that road. The road should go, and then there's the poor girl's mahogany, so she'll be offered no amount of money, let's say the Vrbika case and the break-through of this part of Vukovar towards Slavonska Avenue, and then the mayor tells them and they won't have 300 euros, we'll pull out, so it'll be even less for you, we'll be able to do it. And then the tycoon will get cheap, he'll do anything, but it's in the interest of those citizens right now. Let's say the same Rotonda, same in Zagreb where everything was wronged, everything else. With that law and this is legalized. So in Croatia we say we are fighting for the rule of law, establishing a principle of law. They are all full of mouths taking care of Croatian citizens, the interests of Croatian citizens. But watching this session, this session, which is generally known that always before the break regular in the Croatian Parliament, whether it's winter or summer, we get very important legal texts that try to profuse in the late hours of the night. Let's say last night we had a Croatian National Bank where the same case is that they want to protect someone's interests. Today, let's go during work hours, for transfer, we have a property case related to this part of the exorcism. And we still have the dots and dots we're gonna get. And then it all goes well deep into the night and it all goes away. And we say that we protect the national interests of Croatian citizens and everything else, and we get legal texts where it is visible that it is not true. So there are these two types of expropriations, or expropriations. One of you is this variant where the rights of Croatian citizens are violated, and now it is trying to legalise that it will no longer have any rights. And other things are a variety of situations for you to say changing highway routes, county routes, local roads. But before that you tell reliable people to buy there we'll go down that road. And then people buy it for a reason, I mean people not Croatian citizens, but trusted people, tycoons, not to say today's noble of Croatian society, people who are targeted, they participate in charity actions. They don't mind if he doesn't touch his money. And then they buy it nicely and look at the wonders here tomorrow the City Assembly and the Croatian Government will say that there will be no highway from Zagreb to Sisak where it was intended 40 years ago, few of us will change it. And why are we going to change? And you know why it's going to change. There's our people either on this side or on the other side. Why don't they get something here? Who cares about those people who bought it earlier or are told to listen to it? You will never be allowed a construction zone or anything else or something else. And then it's really not a construction site, but it's gonna be a road trip. Because of these or similar cases that we in the Croatian party club have a huge number of rights we suggest you withdraw, we cannot support this because the Croatian party of rights, the club of HSP, is primarily protected by the interests of Croatian citizens, national interests, not by lobbying these sides, domestic tycoons or anyone else who is not interested in Croatia, the fate of Croatian citizens, the future of the Croatian child, but merely by putting it in his pocket. That's where you'll always be against us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69266	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Kovacevic, said that... They will not return the land and cannot return the land to them, etc., to dispute their property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's just not true. First of all, over 70 concrete returns to the country were, all those who applied under the law have the right to return the country, of course, if they have all the preconditions to return the country. Therefore, there is no saying that this process will stop, it will normally continue under the law that has been in force so far, therefore it is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69268	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69269	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm part of the Association for the Protection of Property Rights... he spoke from the aspect of Article 7 of the proposed Law which his colleague did not read. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If he'd read it, he'd know I was telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69270	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to refer to the article. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69271	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club cannot support this bill because we at the SDP club believe it is unfair and unfair. The Proposer therefore had time from first reading to the submission of this final proposal of the Law to include a whole series of objections which came not only from opposition but from the most measurable committees, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, but the promoters obviously meant nothing. The promoter remained persistent in one uncompromising protection of those large, powerful, and to the detriment of citizens, and that is something that we Social Democrats, the SDP club cannot and will not support. Namely, what it's about. We agree that the Authority, an exceptional intervention of the State, as did the Proposer himself, and that, in certain cases, it is necessary when ownership powers are taken, i.e. the ownership rights are limited, i.e. when the concrete real estate for that envisaged procedure is authorised. However, as important as the procedure is, because it is a guarantee and a democratic outcome of the procedure, an even more important and important question is why and because of whom and in the name of whom the authority is carried out. It is very unusual, therefore under the existing law it is clearly said that it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore quite inexplicable how this is, in its explanation of the assessment of the situation, expanding and relativating the interest of the Republic of Croatia in a way that leads to an express link between the possibility of State intervention through the institution of expropriation, so something which is very dangerous and literally says when greater benefits can be achieved than the one that has been achieved through the use of this property. Therefore, it is no longer the primary interest of the Republic of Croatia, and the interest of the Republic of Croatia is the interest of all its citizens, so when it intervenes in the ownership of a particular citizen, it is now a benefit, everything is on the market since it is taken from the citizens and put into service of sales. Use whose and whose interests? Are we going to do it this way, and directly out of reason and insist on taking one real estate of an old woman with a minor pension that is due to the gain of circumstances and her ancestors has one building or several apartments or some larger apartment and then it will be more useful under this bill to take her apartment, sell it so that someone can put it into office, earning renting those apartments because that old lady can't do it. Is that a fair law? Therefore, we agree that the state must intervene for socially beneficial jobs that serve everyone, but this Law does not serve. This can even be seen directly from an explanation. Perhaps the citizens will rejoice that an extraordinary legal review has been included in these extradition procedures. We know that the Supreme Court is burdened, so then the revision of the latest amendments to the Law on the litigation procedure is limited to the amount of 100 thousand kuna and indeed, since these are very sensitive things to welcome is, which is how the Proposer reacts and burdens the Supreme Court with the procedures of the audit, however, this is just an illusion. Why? Because the review is an extraordinary legal remedy so that once the execution, or execution and expropriation, goes away, and when will the Court of Auditors, in this case, solve this problem? Will he solve it quickly and adequately what should be expected? So, one danger is that he does not delay the performance, another danger is to see one non-chalantity of the proposing himself who says in assessing the necessary conditions for the implementation of this law that no means are necessary, and the Presidents of the Supreme Courts for a number of years from the 1990s, and here they keep warning us as legislators, and... They warn the Proposer of the Law, i.e. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Government is then obliged to provide adequate resources when the designated judicial authority increases jurisdiction and extends jurisdiction when it is given power to new jobs so that they can be executed within an adequate period of time, that is to say, to achieve a purpose. So, formally, there is an audit, but the funds are not approved. The promoter believes that these funds are not needed, and we see that the Supreme Court now has both a burden and a criminal charge which so far has not been so, at least someone, has been as much settled, here we now give him new powers, but let's not even give him the funds. But they don't give those funds to courts, they're given to citizens so that these courts are in the interest of citizens. Therefore, this legal remedy will not benefit much. Therefore, we at the SDP Club regrettably find that the Proposer refused the necessary amendments and responses in the article, on its own in Articles 7, 8 and 15. Refusing exactly the reasons or giving reasons why he did not accept the comments, proposals and opinions as to how the oppositions of both the Justice Committee and the Legislative Committee itself say that this article introduces a five-year objective deadline within which a request for the repeal of a powerful decision on the exemption will be submitted that nothing will practically happen. So, there's not one I'd say quite the explanation. Since we are already responding in a way that touches property despite the primary and constitutional provisions on property integrity because of certain needs, then you see when the beneficiary of the state's extradition did not therefore bring the purpose, she did not realize what she was going to do with this extradition process, which we continue to do. Instead of punishing us, instead of further punishing the irresponsible conduct of the public bodies, we punish the former owner, so we say you haven't asked for it back in a certain period of five years, and you can't have it anymore. Well, we've touched with this on the fundamental principles that exist not since the OGZ but from the Roman right that no one can pass on to another more rights than they have. So, in this way, we give public-legislative authorities the power to do so, despite the fact that they have not executed the legal option and the authority is always the process that one exception is still being rewarded because that is how we punish the former owner. But why are we punishing the former owner? Well, we're not punishing him here, it's quite clear from the explanation, that's what the proposer doesn't keep a secret at all. Not in the interest again let's say states that will then otherwise have usefulness but sell further, to whom. Well, to those who do. Well, it's not our citizens. It's foreigners. Because here's what the Proposer literally says in his explanation. Because, he says, for the sake of traffic and livability of real estate traffic, we're going to do it and we're introducing this objective five-year term. Well, the man who authorized it might have gone somewhere for five years. Yes, you make fun of the citizens who voted for you. Great! That's how you tricked them. Is that what you want? That's not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69272	Don't correspond with the MPs and talk about fraud, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69273	Please, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69274	Don't talk and be in the context of a normal debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69275	Mr. Vice President, they can laugh at me but I don't allow citizens to laugh. That's where you react.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69276	You're not in charge of protecting citizens, so there are laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69277	I am because I'm standing here and I'm paid on behalf of the citizens. And what you consider not to be in that name is your problem and those who may have voted for you. I'm here on behalf of the citizens and on behalf of the citizens I speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69278	You're not the only one because we're all on behalf of the citizens and don't overwrite something you don't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69279	Okay, well, that's where we agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69280	We're all MPs and you're one of or one of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69281	That's nice to meet you. I'm glad to hear you're thinking like that right now, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69282	So, please speak, don't always raise your temperature here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69283	So, by introducing this objective deadline, citizens themselves are sanctioned. Instead of providing them with additional compensation, they are deprived of the real estate and thus achieved safely for that citizen and have escaped the gain because he has only gained the mere value of that property but not some out-of-the-way profit to which he could achieve and place it in the service of his own family and the satisfaction of some of his above all economic needs. So we punish this citizen because he will not be able to recover his property after that objective five-year term. It has no purpose but it will be directly available in this way because I say it does not hide at all. That we see here a further abuse of the Institute of Exclusion itself and that it will not be so tightly placed as it is at the end and constitutional restriction, and as the current Law on Exemption has enabled, but here we have another dangerous illogicality. Since it is not an important observation of the very dangerous provision of Article 15, which was not responded by the applicant although it warned not only the opposition but the Committee on the Constitution, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law, but in vain. And right here on those boards, there's a way of ruling the same thing. So here's the unanimous assessment that it's responding exactly in this sense that I'm talking about right now. So now they and this further case when the property is authorized, so when the citizen was taken away, when the state did not realise the interest for which it had carried out the procedure. You see, if, in the meantime, this property has been estranged and even wrongly considered as being, as the proposer said, precisely for safety purposes. What's security? It is not the security of the owner but the security of legal traffic and it will not be possible to seek the return of that property. Because the proposer says further this is because of confidence in the completeness and truthfulness of the land-book state. So why are we carrying out this reform in land books, there's huge resources and our own state budget, and there's that loan that we took back a few years, and that's one of the most expensive projects. So it's precisely because the land-marked state doesn't correspond to the real state. No, but here, the proposer does that truth-finding and full trust in the land book so that those who have registered their rights or not are not settled if it is sold and sold, can only be sold by bad intentions because the owner or the one who is registered knows that he is not the owner but is further selling such a property. Therefore, these are some serious remarks. We know fully that this institute has always existed, that it should be to the extreme to be very careful to use it, but this and this newspaper that the promoter is now offering are not in the citizens' interest, they are not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia but are in the interest of, I repeat, the promoter does not keep it secret, in the interest of the living of traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69284	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69285	Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues have been injured by Article 214(1), subparagraph 3. The rules of procedure which he says, I quote, "Your incursions or otherwise distracts the speaker." As he spoke to a representative of the SDP's Club of Representatives from the ranks of parliamentary MPs, they tried to distract him constantly when he was a special representative of the SDP's Club of Representatives for... help to enable yourself to speak uninterruptedly because it did not allow him to be chaired. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It happened, in fact, that it then turned out to be a representative of the SDP's Club of Representatives. Please have the same criteria in respecting the Rules of Procedure for all MPs and all clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69286	Thank you very much. Self-help is not allowed. If he had rated the chairman that, then he would have intervened, but the MPs had no right to then say in their answer that he was lying, that the MPs were lying to the people. Yes, it is. We're going to look at this one, and that's why I intervened. And I ask you to follow the order prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and I will evaluate it when it is interrupted, when the noise is such that it cannot be heard, and then I will warn. And you can't deal with a lawyer alone with those who earn. In our Parliament there is a Parliament's presence, the Irish Parliament, i.e. The Committee on Agriculture and Food of the Irish Parliament headed by Mr. Johny Brady and we warmly welcome the delegation with Mr. Brady as well as representatives of the Irish Embassy in the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's actually amazing that until the second reading, the proposer did not question the comments of any of the individual representatives or even the comments of some of the representatives' clubs, but did not take into account the comments of the board. Not just any committee, the Constitutional Committee, the Justice Committee, the Legislative Committee. I would remind all of us that on these committees as well as on other committees, there is more than just politics. That's where the waist sits. We took the profession and paid the profession to hear their voice. But what it's worth when we hear it but that profession is not heard by the representatives of the government or the representatives of the executive government to be more specific, the representatives of the government. And so we have received amendments and additions to the Law, which allows the Institute of Execution through the Authority to intervene the state in the ownership of the owner of the property. Ownership is invulnerable and property integrity is one of the fundamental values of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia. Ownership shall give rise to rights or property and shall be bound by them. Here, and if there are no representatives, I will continue: the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in paragraph 2, Article 48 says, "The holder of ownership rights and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good." The Constitution says: "It is possible to restrict or confiscate property in the interest of the Republic of Croatia with the compensation of the market value." So the restriction and the confiscation is possible but not always, but only when it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That interest exists only if it is a general good by which it is obliged to contribute to each holder and user of ownership rights. The decision to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia is made by the Government and is published in the National Journal. That decision is not principled and it is not general. It determines that the construction or execution of works in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of the beneficiaries of the expropriation, according to the previous opinion of the Assembly of the County or the City of Zagreb, on which the work is intended to be built or carried out, but not in any way, in accordance with the spatial plan or according to the proposal of the amendments to the detailed plan. So the Authority is indeed an exceptional intervention of the state in ownership. This intervention occurs only in the case of the construction of specific facilities, the execution of specific works which are in the interest of the State or the general good of the people. As it is owned by one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order, it is the state's obligation to protect the Institute of Exclusion from all possible abuses. In this regard, we also observe these changes by the same standards and criteria as we observed in 2000 and 2001. What are the essential features of these changes? Amendments allow the revision of the second-degree exemption solution brought by the county courts. It is true that according to current legal decisions, there is no possibility of controlling such judicial decisions. No appeal or revision is allowed against these decisions now. Perhaps this would not be a problem if there was a uniform caselaw in Croatia, but it is not and the county courts are taking different views leading to doubtfulness and uniform application of the law as well as equality of the citizens in the extradition procedures. In the Republic of Croatia, the Supreme Court, as the highest court, also ensures the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. We therefore consider the opening and intervention of the Supreme Court. But why is it unclear for us that the proposer chooses the review as an extraordinary legal remedy? We think it would be good to consider the appeal as a regular legal remedy by making a decision on appeal by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The further novelty to be introduced by these amendments is the introduction of an objective five-year deadline after which the previous owners cannot in any way request the annulment of the rightful authorisation solution. The amendment shall explain the needs of equalising the protection of the rights of users of the authorities and the rights of previous owners. This is an important change in relation to the existing law based on the absolute protection of previous owners in accordance with the constitutional provision on the non-violence of ownership rights. This does not mean that under the current law, the previous owner could ask for an annulment of the rightful decision on the expropriation when he wanted to, as he wanted, and for reasons he himself assessed to be justified. The law stipulates that, at the request of the previous owner of the authorised property, an expropriation decision will be annulled if the beneficiary of an expropriation within two years of the date of power of the solution, i.e. from the date of entry into the property, has not begun the construction of the facility or the execution of works for which the property has been authorised or the property is not used in accordance with the manner established by law. Now, neither in these cases after the 5-year period, the previous owner will be able to seek an annulment of the solution despite the fact that the reason and the purpose of the execution is misused. So the right of ownership without realising the state interest was taken away. Therefore, the general good that is manifested and in the construction of specific objects and the performance of specific works. After a period of five years and such beneficiaries of expropriation will be able to freely dispose of the expropriated real estate and the reason for the expropriation or confiscation of ownership rights will never be realised. Is it not an abuse of the Institute of Exclusion, an institution which is extremely intervened by the state in ownership powers? It would be unfair to permanently leave an unprotected user of expropriation. The full protection can only be obtained after he has built or carried out works for which the Government's decision found that the interest of the Republic of Croatia and as such constitutes a reason for the withdrawal of the right of ownership of the previous owner. As long as this is at the stage of planning the rights of the beneficiary of the exemption cannot be equated with the rights of the previous owner containing the possession, use, use and availability. Furthermore, Article 8 states: “The previous owner does not have the right to compensation for the outstanding real estate that was built without an act on which it can be built according to a special regulation.” The lawless builder has committed a violation of the law for which he is responsible and must bear responsibility as prescribed by the law. However, he cannot be sanctioned twice for the same work. The second time sanctioned by this amendment and by an amendment which deprives it of the right to confiscation of ownership only because it has violated one other law defining the sanctions for the infringement. The promoter says that paying compensation to the persons who broke the law would be unfair. It is unfair to confiscate property without compensation, even against constitutional property. Such a provision may be morally and sustainable in a country where it is much simpler and faster to come to an act on which it can be built and where all buildings are built with all necessary permits. However, we live in another world and therefore the imperfection of the functioning of the state administration, bureaucracy and administration cannot be paid by a citizen taking away property. If a crime or violation of an answer begins, he should be punished, but he has the right to compensation for his dispossessed property. What we are particularly concerned about in the Club of the Croatian Peasant Party is Article 15, which prescribes exceptions in the application of the laws to which the amendments apply with them having retroactive effect. What are the exceptions? It is said that the right to expropriate or expropriate shall not be annulled if a third party, on the basis of the validity of the legal basis, has acquired the right of ownership of an expropriated or expropriated property or has been transferred to it on the basis of a valid legal basis for the acquisition of ownership rights. This provision would not be disputed if it were to apply only to those properties on which the buildings or works found to be State interest for which ownership of the previous owner was seized. This supplement, as it says, is the legalization of the abuse of the Authority. The second exception is in the provision that the rightful authorisation decision will not be annulled if the expropriation user or the expropriation user prior to the request of the previous owner for the annulment of the expropriation solution or the expropriation has brought in a property other than the one for which it has been expropriated or granted if that change is in accordance with the spatial order documents. And this is the legalization of abuse of expropriation. The removal of ownership on a particular property is not allowed for any reason, but for the construction of a specific facility or for the execution of specific works that are of national or national interest. These changes do not allow the annulment of the solution even when some other objects that are not of State interest are built are picturesquely described. This means that the user of the exemption granted by the authority for the purpose of building, for example, a kindergarten, sells an expropriated property to a foreign trade chain that builds a super market and legalises all this by not allowing us in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party is unacceptable. We also pointed out that in our first reading discussion. However, the applicant’s representative, or government, did not accept our remarks either by not accepting the Committee’s comments. It is not surprising, then, not to accept the comments of the representatives, but also the Clubs of Representatives. But it is surprising not to accept the views, opinions and proposals of the expert committees. The Croatian Peasant Party Club cannot accept and support the proposed changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69288	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69289	Mr. Vice President, among other things, a colleague pointed out a particular important point in which she wanted to create a false impression in reality. Namely, if the property has been awarded for the construction of kindergarten, then only the child's kindergarten will be able to operate on that property, unless the space-planning documentation is changed and the chain of commerce can be built there. That's not true. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69290	Can this be considered a throwaway? Or is it just throwing that away? It is next to the HNS club and Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go. [[Come on, Niko.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, what's exorcism? This is an extraordinary, extraordinary, extraordinary procedure for the state to come up with property to achieve the municipalities of public goals, so that private ownership as a fundamental constitutional category, one of the fundamental constitutional categories, is one of the ones that is one of the main constitutional categories at a time in order to achieve a higher interest. It used to be called expropriation. I think that's a good term. Explosion is a harsh expression, reminds us of everything that's happened over 50 years ugly. And this is ugly. And that's a good expression because that's exactly the kind of connotation he gives. This law is a law on the exercise of rights and expropriation in favour of those with others' decisions. There's no justice in the law. Now why isn't she here? Let's say that article 11 of the Law has been deleted, which says that some kind of expropriation plan is being held as such, so people would say something eventually about it. Well, there's nothing people can say about that. The boss made a decision, and the boss is the government, always and only the government. The boss has made a decision on this. The debate is no more. The famous five-year deadline is being introduced. Number one, the question has been raised since the deadline. If it flows from the expropriation then those who, five years ago, and one day, something was exploded is over. Whoever put up the pits, who didn't bail now will eventually be able to bail when this is over. The second question is what is this deadline for? Namely, if within five years you do what's being exploded, say, land, okay. It was built, the road was built, the hospital was built, it was made, and there are no more returns. It's also clear to him whose property was taken away. However, what happens if it is not made? If it is not made for 5 years, after 5 years, the urban plan is slightly changed at the place of kindergarten, as counterpart Lalic said. They sold me other people's property for a set of money, other people's property for a set of money, built a mall, all happy and satisfied except for the one whose grandfather it is. Revision as a legal remedy. The audit is an extraordinary legal remedy. We don't even get regular legal medications from God knows that unless the operation has failed and the patient is more or less dying, and regular, and extraordinary legal medicines such as the review of the Supreme Court that is burdened with what I do will be carried out once it's over and when the catch from the bill is realized that the third person has entered into ownership. Then it doesn't make sense anymore. The third person has entered the property, can't come back, and now you're going to review. What's with the review? Market value. It will be exploded at market value. The market value is the average value that can be achieved in a given area, etc. And who determines it? It is determined by one who puts a request for expropriation, so city or county I don't know head office or person, who already. In any case, one who buys by force determines at which price he will pay for it. Definitely offensive category that was first found in this text of the law, I didn't see it anywhere else in similar laws is a category of benefits. So, if taking someone's property is going to make them benefit more than they do if he has it, then it's going to be taken away from him. This violates not only the elementary constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also the elemental settings of ethics. The benefit here shouldn't play a part. Here you should play the role of the wider community, the general interest, but not the benefit. You know what's good for you. The use is profit. The use is money that comes out of something. Is such a element here you shouldn't play the part. So it happens that the owner is out, that the property is taken away from him for a detailed plan. We do detailed plans very optimisticly because, as well as urban plans and all these documents, because no one is responding because nothing will happen under that plan. There's a beautiful town flower shop, and it's like that. However, a detailed plan is not being implemented. In this case expropriation, the one who took the land has the right to sell the property to his customer at the price he succeeds on the real market this time. A similar injustice occurs in freezing assets that are not expropriated but is very close. If you have land that you have an urban plan dedicated to a particular purpose, you can't do anything else with that land. It's like you've been exploded. You have building land where the apartment block will come. You'd build your own house on that land. That's not gonna happen. However, the housing block does not rise, year or year, or two, or twenty or thirty. And you three times die, from a housing block nothing, and your country is frozen, your property is frozen, someone violates your constitutional rights by a very simple act that goes through the city council without a problem. In this way, this law will not only freeze your property, it will take it from you and sell it to the one who pays better. The final and funniest element in the whole thing that's actually saying that there are no serious intentions because they're criminal provisions. The penalty provision for the proposed expropriation is between 5 and 15 thousand kuna, the City of Zagreb is extremely difficult to pay, it is huge money, and the criminal provision for the responsible person i.e. The mayor of Zagreb, for example, is 500 kuna, 500 kuna. So the fundamental intention of this is not serious, and the most honest one would make such a text of the law that has certain elements that are of course acceptable, I would not even quote them now that this text of the law is being drawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69292	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69293	A respected colleague, Vuljanic, said that this law would take away property and sell to one who was better paid. The meaning of this Law is not so, but it is obvious that we have the traumas of a former period related to the laws of expropriation when the property may indeed have been taken away and the property has been paid at the time for a fair fee, and today we are returning this property according to our laws and indemnifying the former users. However, the intensity of this Law and the purpose of this Law is that if property is taken to build roads, highways, pipelines, sewerage, waterways and such things today when it is done in serious proceedings and today when it is paid, it is actually paid at market prices, rather than at the right criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69294	Thank you. And another correction by Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69295	Dear Mr. Vice President, my dear colleague, speaking of detailed plans, I am correcting this allegation, he said detailed plans are being adopted, and they are not being realised, but he himself mentioned the case of the City of Zagreb and the Mayor where detailed plans are in the function of legal coverage of what has already been made against detailed plans, this is an even worse example.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69296	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Krono Peronja. Here you go. Or on behalf of the club. ... All right, all right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can sign up now because it's not past time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69297	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extremation adopts as well as the preceding essentials, is very short, nomotechnically precise and modern, so we need to also focus on the very important and most important changes that this Law adopts. It is currently Corresponding with the other judicial system, and therefore also the most important issues to be regulated by this Act are the harmonisation of the system and specific regulations, and in particular the Law on Spatial Planning, by further introducing a five-year deadline for repealing the rightful solution to authorise and introduce an audit, but it should also be said that it is also the result of economic development, entrepreneurial and market freedoms that are highly accelerated and, of course, as the basis of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. So far, there have been four amendments, we're talking about the '94 Act of Execution. and from 2000 and 2001, and the most important fact, and I will especially highlight it because it is starting with this proposal of the law is the harmonisation with the Law on Spatial Planning which is right now, and it has begun with the Government's regulation on the protected coastal belt which has stopped the illegal construction and which has defined as a legal obligation for municipalities, cities and counties to come up with spatial plans because they are, in fact, the basis of every economic development and municipalities, cities and counties and therefore, it is important to highlight one complicated and complex procedure that brings out spatial plans of municipalities, cities and counties. They are brought by municipal, city councils and county parliaments with the previous agreement of the ministry, not only environmental protection but all those involved in the adoption of a spatial plan. Therefore, Article 1 of the replacement, which is highlighted by the detailed plan of arrangement, i.e. by the rightful location permit, because if the purpose of a particular part of the space is not provided for, is in vain, as some colleagues pointed out instead of kindergarten that there would be something else. There may be something else if the municipal council, in accordance with the county spatial plan and previously obtained consent from the ministry, were re-scheduled, and yet we say this is what the citizens of the municipality and the city decided not to be a kindergarten but to be a trade chain or something else. It is also mentioned a copy of the detailed planning of the arrangement, i.e. a powerful local authorisation for the performance of works proposed by the delegation and a confirmed pitching laboratory. These are two sentences, and behind this is really a lot of effort and for the pitching lab, and then for all those spatial planning decisions, a particularly detailed plan of editing space because when it is made then it does not need a location permit. This actually accepts the development of a whole judicial system along with what we saw before we saw the Law on Real Rights and this Law on Execution. Surely, many speakers who have touched this objective deadline are necessary, a five-year objective deadline is necessary and should not be put in place. Everywhere in such similar situations, there is a subjective and objective deadline because this application of the authorisation of the Institute is, in fact, where the exceptional intervention of the State in ownership rights and their powers is necessary and cannot be achieved otherwise than in this way, but states that in the intended new purpose of the use of the property which is subject to prior authorisation, a market price may also be offered to the previous owner who can accept it, then there is no exemption which is most ideal and yet this is also the case for the settlement procedure provided for by other laws and, if the previous owner does not accept it, then another relevant property can be offered to the owner or market value and to tie the payment of compensation by the beneficiaries of the advantage in the possession. Indeed, the integrity of ownership is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order provided for in Article 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Why is it important to mention this exactly foreseen objective deadline? For reasons of justice, for reasons of the security of the entire legal system, because the proposer himself made it clear and plastically explained if he spoke at all about that objective period, then it is considered and states that he is bound by the Law on our empowerment or amendments to that law since 1994 and beyond. Because it can't simply be allowed to happen indefinitely and that the third person who bought and acquired real estate based on valid legal work and entered the land books to suffer that legal uncertainty as long as that property exists. That's why this objective deadline is useful, it's long, it's five years long. There is no owner who will miss if he really cares about his real estate that he doesn't know what's going on with this property, if it's within the city that he doesn't know what's going to be built there, if it's agricultural land not to follow whether or not he's grown weed there, whether someone built the road or not, whether someone's spent water, electrical cables, optical cables, he needs to know. If he does not take care of his real estate in ancient Roman law, it is accepted that abandoning the owner has ceased to be the owner, and in this way it must be regulated by law because one legal certainty that we need in order to develop the economy and everything else cannot be achieved. The area for which a detailed plan for the arrangement of space is adopted shall not be subject to a local authorisation and in order to be able to carry out the extradition procedure in other areas covered by some other documents, a local authorisation is required, therefore the difference from complete and incomplete extradition is very useful because perhaps that part of the property taken away from the previous owner does not serve him anything. It should also be given the opportunity for the other part to be eliminated and given to it I would always stress as it is often repeated here to subtract property with market value compensation because it is an exception and forced measure, State intervention in ownership powers, and I repeat, it is always based on a detailed plan of arrangement of space. I also want to say why this objective five-year deadline. Because even that doubt that existed otherwise in the law whether the annulment of a powerful solution contains or does not contain a provision on the handover of the property is that the annulment of the execution solution is actually the return of the property to its previous owner. For when his property is returned, it returns to him in full scope and possessions that involve use and use. In this way, this proposed addition contributes to the repression of lawless construction, which is in line with the government policy of the Republic of Croatia and with the laws of the Department of Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and other specific laws, of course, with the adoption and possibility of reviewing being used as an extraordinary legal remedy to those decisions which have not been controlled so far because, in fact, the Supreme Court, which is intended to ensure the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens, is, by this law, the possibility of access to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, introducing a review of judgments of the county courts. It is true that certain conditions are foreseen for the declaration of the audit, for example the value of the case of the dispute, but it is also one of the useful mechanisms to discourage all those people who would like to argue only to delay the proceedings or to achieve a better price this time of speech if the value of the case is more than 100,000 or some other way. Therefore, in view of the specificity of the institute and the subject-matter of the expropriation where the frequent value of the case of the dispute is not a question, the silence of the administration was necessary to introduce the obligation of the prosecutor, the one who submits an audit to determine the value of the case of the dispute, with the possibility that such value of the court should be examined again, and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Law on the litigation procedure to see whether the value of the case was correctly indicated. Of course, in addition to Article 15, some exceptions are provided and are subject to the provisions of these laws by having retroactive action, so that, according to paragraph 2 of subparagraph 1 of the previous subparagraph, the previous owner cannot request the repeal of the rightful expropriation solution or the exemption if the third party, on the basis of a valid legal basis, has the right of ownership of the property, or has been expunged. If, on the basis of a valid legal basis for the acquisition of ownership rights, this property is transferred to the property. This, I repeat, refers to the possible expropriation solutions that were adopted under every regulation that regulated this matter until '94. and powerful solutions adopted under the '94 Act of Extraordination. years if the legal conditions are met. Respect for a large period of time during which previous owners did not ask for the annulment of these solutions, a flow which the expropriation users realised that they had accepted such a situation and the lack of interest of previous land owners, and this is in the nature of gentlemen exactly. It's a living and well-checked condition. That's why I'm glad that the promoter just used what's going on in life, not just following the office, cabinet way of proposing amendments to the law. And so expunged or expunged property was sold to someone. On the basis of valid planning documents, he built something. How are we going to take something away from someone who's been taken away legally and returned? Legal uncertainty vis-à-vis third parties who, on the basis of valid legal transactions, have acquired the right to own these properties by introducing this objective, large, five-year period. Therefore, I would particularly like to emphasise that the Proposer has said and explained why certain proposals even some committees have not accepted it and has done so in a convincing, logical and secure way and therefore I will only repeat that this law and such ways of amending and adopting existing laws should be as a rule that will bring the entire justice system in line with the very living standards that life means on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69298	Thank you very much. At 13.05, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. An individual debate. The first is Mrs. Vesna Skara Ozbolt's representative who doesn't have one. He's losing his right. Mr. Miroslav Korenika. Good to see you, too. Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't think he should be legally trained to say that this law destroys one constitutional principle or breaks it down to the level of the adoption of a detailed urban plan. In fact, Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia quotes: “The law is possible in the interest of the Republic of Croatia only to limit or confiscate property and to pay market compensation. ” So, only in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. There's no other option and nothing else. Only by law and in the Republic of Croatia and everywhere in the world, only the representative body adopts laws. Thus, the government is opening up a wide range of doors to abuse of the Institute of Exclusion and devastation of property protection on those who will bring a detailed urban plan. And that's what the law specifically says. For practical reasons so far, it has been possible to work only on those things covered by the spatial plan, which is an act of a much higher planning order than urban plans are generally a general, implementing and detailed plan. The detailed plan is the lowest plan in urban planning. He takes a little stamp and he edits them. He has nothing to do with roads. He may have, but then he's something different. But he's taking a little particle, and on that particle he's trying to urbanize the thing, and he's even going down and he's saying it's a local license. The concept of the location permit is the urban concept and it until the new law when it was deleted from the Law on Spatial Planning and the editing of space had the status of editing space rather than administrative act. Because the building permit was an administrative act and you could destroy it either as an interested party, neighbor or anyone, and the location permit could be requested by anyone. He didn't have to prove at all his property, legal interest itself. In other words, we have therefore brought property protection down to those who will bring a location permit and a detailed Urbanist plan. The question is, will someone take this down because the Constitutional Court, I believe, will bring it down. If this is added and it is not disputed for counterpart Bosnjakovic to tell the benefit, the law introduces luxuriance as a reason for the restriction of this property. Usefulness, usefulness cannot be evenly interpreted or interpreted as the interest of the Republic of Croatia. There is no one who will challenge this in any language, historical or any interpretation under the interest of the Republic of Croatia. If I know the interest of the Republic of Croatia cannot be seen in a detailed plan, it can be seen but the most common interest of the Republic of Croatia is not seen in a detailed urban plan. So this is really opening a peach for abuses all over. I wish the interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision to which the motionor is called would be properly interpreted. The Constitutional Court has asked to strengthen the protection of ownership. He asked us, with the administrative resolution of matters and the Administrative Court under European Union directives, to introduce protection of ownership by a court full of jurisdiction. So, the essence of things to solve, not procedure. He asked me to, from the Administrative Court to move to court so we found a solution to the County Court. Okay, I understand that and that's fine, but you can't say on one side: let's step up the judicial protection of ownership, and on the other hand we reduced the interest of the Republic of Croatia brought into a detailed urban plan. It doesn't work, it just doesn't work. It goes as far as it goes. And when there's a lot of abuse, then we'll figure out where we took the thing, and it'll show up on my own. So let me understand the other reasons for introducing a deadline for protecting property rights. Five years, but it's really been a question since that deadline started to work. Of course, that deadline cannot begin before the law enters into force. But ever since it's gonna count, this whole terming thing is this law. I can understand that. Of course it's harder to understand that it's going retroactively, and it's going retroactively. That's why it would be good to introduce it by what date. Here it says, "The procedures that have begun" so it may have some explanation and some to say the meaning but it basically opens up two types of expropriation or extradition that have so far been carried out. One will have the right to regret and to conduct proceedings and the other will not. And we're not saying why? We're just gonna cut it off. Who thought of it? So I'm just trying to talk to legal arguments about the bill itself. And I'm going to avoid political connotations or political assessments that it's a benefit to someone and, you know, it's got to be a benefit to someone because the proposer means they're very conscious of entering this project. Very responsible. Only for whose benefit would it already be a political assessment. I'm not gonna say that, but I suggest we don't pass this law. It would simply be wise to understand that we went against the Constitution and against the interests of the Republic of Croatia because that and Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic says: "The property can be restricted or taken away only in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and that means that my property can only be taken away in the interest of the Republic of Croatia."The ownership of any of you is again only in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Or anyone's property. And it can't be said by law that it will be taken away when a detailed urban plan is adopted. There's got to be a list of owners. It's a list of owners. This is how we do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69300	Thank you. There's one correction, Mr. Crown Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69301	Mr. Vice President, of course, Article 50. The Constitution, paragraph 1, a colleague just read paragraph 1 and I will read others so that it can be seen that the exemption cannot be used for any and whose interest it says: "Employment and ownership rights can be extremely limited by law to protect the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human environment and human health. 1, 2, 3, 4 in 5, 6 cases. So you can't go on forever. And the detailed plan of editing space is inconclusive. Without it, real estate cannot be owned, nor in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and a very complex procedure justifies the proposed legal changes that correspond with the Law on Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69302	Miss Alenka's replica of Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69303	Thank you. I would like to replicate my colleague, Leki, where he spoke about Croatia's interest, it cannot be seen in detailed urban plans. In fact, I agree with that because bringing down detailed plans de facto opens up a great possibility of abuse of the institution of expropriation. I'd like to remind you of this, in this replica, of a situation where there's an exorcism for a so-called so-called. The public good for building a social infrastructure facility is therefore still in, not under the Law of Exclusion, the abuse of the use of the property by, say, freeing the city of Zagreb from the investor concerned at the primary school of paying for the communal contribution. The school is private, the school earns money. The school may be of interest to society but if the school is in private hands it is also a private interest and it is earned. This kind of institute and this way leads to the possibility of building a pipeline and gasification of a neighborhood, New Zagreb, let's say that tomorrow this infrastructure would be sold through privatisation to a private company, for example, Rurgas, or a public-private partnership school can be built and another private, private property, and a scholarship is charged through which it is no longer a public interest. It is no longer an interest in Croatia. So, in good faith, it starts to pursue the purpose of public interest and ends up in various ways in someone's private interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69304	Answer Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69305	First of all, thank you, beautiful colleague. I didn't say that every detailed urban plan is neither the interest of the Republic nor that it's not the interest of the Republic. But in any case, everyone is not the interest of the Republic of Croatia because there is no obligation to do so. So as soon as everyone is not and the detailed urban plan is the basis for expropriation we are simply with ourselves as the representative body of the Croatian people who is authorized to protect property passed it on to someone else and ex-legation by law. So how's it gonna be? That's it, that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69306	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69307	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Leko has troubled the notion of benefit in this law. The concept of benefit is actually defined in Article 1. It's a law of exorcism. It's not about individual or someone's benefit, it's about the general social benefit. Perhaps I agree with you in part that when the law was written in the first version of 1994, perhaps a happier expression should be found. But no doubt from the general provisions of this Law that it is a general social benefit. It means a greater benefit if one of the properties on which there's some kind of meadow to be taken out and some kind of pipeline goes on that real estate tomorrow or tomorrow some kind of gas pipeline goes on. That is certainly a greater benefit. And in any case, I think this law has very good provisions to protect the former owner. If we look in the first degree, it solves the competent administrative authority. We've got a legal remedy that's based on the subject of the Ministry. After that, we have the right to sue, so the case goes to the County Court. After that, we have an audit, so the case goes back to the Supreme Court. And there's something that doesn't say, and it's a constitutional lawsuit, so fifth instance. And in this context, we have the right of the previous owner if within two years of the power of the solution no real estate purpose has been brought in. So, by this institute, we have the right to seek the annulment of a powerful solution. Well, I don't know if more legal protection is possible for the previous owner. But I think we're still in the traumas of that expropriation as it was done in the former system. Of those fair fees that were actually below each level, below all costs. Because today, if you ask the owners of today, we really control the state very much, and only when it has that general benefit and general interest enters the process of expropriation. Because she knows it's going to cost her a lot, because she knows she's not going to pay a fair fee, but she's going to pay this very market fee, and I think the real estate owners know very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69308	Thank you. Mr. Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69309	A colleague of Bošnjakovic, if this law were written to be carried out only by a colleague, Bosnjakovic, I would vote for him. But it's not, it's not just written for you, it's written for all citizens and everyone who applies this law. Well then, you cannot interpret the 50th interest of the Republic of Croatia as an expropriation can be implemented if the benefit, whose benefit is greater than that of the owner. Who's going to determine that? It was given to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia to determine that interest. The Parliament was given. And now what you say to the government is given to the Parliament. The law only brings Parliament. That's another thing that we are, that's another thing that we've loosed since we found that the spatial plan of the things covered will be able to rule out the government. That's what we have delegated our intention. ... No, no, that's what we've delegated, that's what I'm talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69310	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his talk, Lecko spoke on several occasions about how a detailed plan of arrangement is actually not a good basis for exorcism. So I think this thing is just the opposite. They are a good and quality foundation. Why? In the current law it's constantly that building an object can be us when it's in accordance with the spatial plan. But the spatial plan is a more natural plan. The plans of a lower nature, so the detailed planning of the arrangement, the urban planning of the arrangement, are precisely defined by the microlocation, specifically. If you were going to own some part of the area in order to build a specific highway or such an object of real state interest, because this is about the state interest and the fact that this is an institution which is, therefore, the only state that we can rule out. Therefore, the state's intervention in ownership is exceptional. Exceptional intervention of the State. So if you were going to build a highway in some area, you've only got signs of where it's going. You don't have the details, you don't have the detailed picture, you don't have the footage. The only way you can do that is through the plans of the lower order, only through the plans of the lower order can you do it. So, only on the plans of the lower order is clear which location and which particular building particle you want to rule out. Because it's exactly the spatial plan of the higher order that allows manipulation. If the issue is resolved by lower plans, so by a detailed plan of arrangements or urban planning, then it is a very specific location and there is no abuse. And I'm saying, this is about an extraordinary state intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69312	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69313	Thank you very much. First of all, I didn't mistake urban plans and spatial plans. That's what you've done now. ... Yes, it is, because you spoke of a detailed plan as a lower plan of the spatial plan. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the detailed urban plan is a lower plan for urban plans, urban plans. And the detailed plan is not in charge of bringing Parliament and even the Governments of the Republic of Croatia. And then we have nothing to discuss whether it's a reduced protection of ownership for those who will bring in a detailed urban plan. It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69314	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, therefore, I believe that the final bill unfortunately did not respect all those opinions that were given in the first procedure, in the first reading process. I believe that, in the final draft of the law, it was necessary to unambiguously install the remarks that went into order to protect first and foremost the owner whose real estate is being managed, and not continue to put him in an unequal position, because this new owner is in a more favourable position. I am particularly aware of the five-year objective of the deadline for submitting requests for the annulment of the rightful authorisation solution, including the moment from which it counts, which we have already heard a lot today, as well as the fact that we have not solved whether it only retrogrades these direct ones or those for which these proceedings have begun even before. Therefore, the law provides only for those in which the procedure is under way. I am also interested in what market prices are and how market prices are determined. Whether the market price is determined on the basis of the projection of the average price offered in the "Blue Advertiser" or whether that market price is defined on the basis of the tax administration, which we both know is not true. Neither is the tax administration that will measure what the price of a property is, nor should we call it, under quotes "Blue Advertiser". So there is, there is one price that is projected about and how, mainly on the basis of the one that buys the property, therefore, which is, and these are mainly in this bill of the unit of local self-government. Namely, if the new owner does not bring in the real estate of the purpose for which it is authorized or used otherwise, it is not sanctioned, there will be no annulment of the rightful solution. Like that. A change from the title of spatial planning may take place, and such a provision gives great opportunity to abuse on which no account has been taken by the Proposer. I, with a moment in my replica, referred to one case, known from the City of Zagreb, so it was not about empowerment and these fees, but about the layoff of a communal contribution, i.e. the headship made one decision to release the relevant investor from paying for the municipal contribution, which is very similar to this, because it was estimated that the construction of a school of the so-called so-called "Bosnjak" said, of social interest, or public interest, we can call it today. But I repeat again it's about a 36-grade school, it's about 20 students in each class, each student pays 20 thousand kuna every year, and that's not about any public interest, it's about private interest. So if we go with the authority and the idea of expropriating about, we're talking about, so if those decisions, or the proposals by the local self-government units go towards building the municipal infrastructure, we put them first, say, roads or put them in second place, let's say just the communal infrastructure of a type of pipeline or a heat pipeline or a plumbing or a sewer. We have to ask ourselves what's going to happen in, say, five or ten years. You know that a little by little where, somewhere faster, somewhere easier going for sale, or in the privatisation of a company, some public companies, first one will go, then slowly going and communal as where and when. What then will happen to this, with this expropriation, with this infrastructure, and how will something that has been authorized for one purpose tomorrow be found in the hands of the other? So, there will be a transfer of ownership, and if there is a transfer of ownership, and we now have a case on VTK where we argue whether VTK's infrastructure is owned by T-com or not by T-com, so that's exactly what this is about. So, do those pipes that... are our common money, whether these pipes have entered the underlying capital or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's all the uncleared stuff here, if we're going into expropriation, if we're going to damage the owners by the so-called. The market price of whether something can be the subject of further traffic tomorrow or further sales. What about public interest, say, roads? Is the public interest of roads that leads to a private facility and maybe collects several other objects along the way, but is that a public interest? So, establishing that public interest at the level of a detailed plan, I'm going back a little bit to you as well as your colleague Frano. The difference is so much that the detailed plan really provides more detailed information for technology, i.e. for the enforcement technique, but what I realized to my colleague Lek he argues that through spatial plans you have just defined what is the interest of the state of Croatia. Therefore, the interest of the Croatian state is already being read from spatial plans. If the highway is definitely plotted into a spatial plan and it is not disputed that it is of interest to the state of Croatia, to say the plot for the construction of the highway, i.e. the location permit is something that is at the level of the detailed plan. So that's two completely separate things. This is a priority, and this is the technology of implementation. In its debate, I would certainly like to refer to another segment, which is what one of my predecessors said today, it is the development of plans, general urban plans or other plans of the second row where the city administration or county administration or local administration is predetermining one space for some further development. It is really looking back in history that the closer we get to our citizens, the more they really create objectively big problems. The example is one very eclectic. For 50 years or 30 years, space along the Sava River, one segment was preserved for the potential construction of a future road to Sisak. So, for 30 years, the people who found themselves on that track couldn't even reconstruct their house, could just build 75 square meters for the toilet and bathroom... minimum technical improvements to then make after that 35-year move... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone said that this route no longer runs in their real estate but that it goes to some other orchard that happens to be in some other property where some other plums are held by another man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have two aspects of the problem here. The first aspect of the problem is to manipulate the land because it is known that the price of land goes up depending on what purpose is allocated and the second aspect of it is that it is with this man who, in fact, 30 years from which you have, through a certain paper decision, limited in any capacity of your own ownership, even in that minimal sense, to personally provide yourself with a more dignified life. Of course I think it's working, so this Exclusion Act I think is just one small segment in a series of things that will need to be changed I'm going to say in one set of laws that should be changed within the framework of the entire urban regulation, so the spatial urban regulations of urban cohesion, of course, I don't know any other instruments. So this is just one little, little instrument. I'm afraid this way by itself could cause more damage than good at this point even though in the long run, I really think we're going to have to do something about it. It is evident that the promoter has failed to take a comprehensive look at the legal positions of all participants in the extradition procedure, and in particular the position of the owner whose real estate itself is subject to, and in the end, I think it would be necessary to remove the doubts under which the regulation is implemented by the procedures laid down in this Act, in which sense I have submitted a small amendment, I do not know whether he has come to the benches. Maybe just another little segment, I can do it through the amendment. Yeah, it's a really funny criminal provision. The criminal provision of Madam Secretary almost makes it possible for the mayor of the City of Zagreb to ask the secretary to pay for it, such is a criminal provision, and not to say about the city. A city that has six and a half billion kunas pays between five and 15 thousand kunas for abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69316	Thank you very much. We have one replica, I hope short, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69317	Here, Mr. Vice President, I'll try to be brief. In fact, you've noticed exactly, colleagues, that it is only possible to technically perform an expropriation if there are plans of a lower order, so a detailed plan of arrangement, or if there is a local permit, that is correct and therefore it is actually a better protection of property rights. What you've been saying about these irregularities regarding Sisak's case I agree that's it, it's very bad, but it's bad, but it's bad. ... On the track, you talked about the route Zagreb-Sisak pardon, it's not a case, but it's about that route, but in particular these things are being solved by urban cohesion and some other instruments, and it would be good to have it in front of us for the future. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as the fines are concerned, unfortunately they are encouraging in that I support, it should certainly change the fines of 500 to 2,000 kunas they are encouraging, but here they are constantly getting through how local self-government will do the expropriation. So this is all about State intervention in ownership powers, so that's what it's all about if the state assesses, and the assessment, the basis of the Constitution knows what this institute can use, so I suspect someone will go to what someone from the SDP was just saying they're going to take someone's house and then they'll rent it and they'll give it to someone who's going to rent it. That's what I think, it's predominant and quite certain that this institute will not be used for these purposes, nor is it possible, either by the basis of the law or by the Constitution or by the basis of the new Law of Execution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69318	Thank you. Mrs. Chichin-Shain's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, when I was talking about the difference, I wanted to point out that my colleague, Leko, was thinking about priorities, so priorities. So those objects that are of such importance to Croatia are already drawn in spatial plans or already defined in spatial plans. And the technique, how to implement it, how to plot, how to subtract, do you just what's in the track or something wider, how to compensate etc. These are the technical aspects of it. So these are completely separate things. And as for punishment, I think it's undeniable. However, as far as local self-government units are concerned, they only make a proposal to the government under this law and the government determines interest. So the government can and does not determine interest. But this proposal, I'm afraid, is exactly what I'm saying. The plans draw one object for any purpose, let's say for infrastructure purposes, don't come to its realization, why not return the land after two or three years if it hasn't been realised, why not go back to the former owners, so when the conditions are obtained it goes into re-authorization, or let it go into implementation only after that let the right of ownership be limited to what has been done and not to create a mechanism for abuse that you are building one today so that one in some kind of social or public interest that something might end tomorrow in the hands of a privateer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69320	Thank you. And the final secretary of state, Mrs. Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! How important and important the subject of expropriation is, or if we can use the earlier word from the social property system, the expropriation shows this debate. In fact, this is about sensitive rights and difficult balance-building, so we seem to be back and back about 12 years when the Act of Execution was passed. In this debate, the provision of Article 1 has already been cited several times. The law of exorcism, so I won't repeat it. But let me just remind you. Execution is always done in the performance of works and the construction of objects in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and when it is estimated that the use of the property for which it is intended... empowerment achieves greater benefits, some general, public benefits, some broader goals and some broader purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, although it is carried out in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and because of the prevailing of another general objective, the beneficiary of the exemption is not a state. It doesn't even have to be a local administration unit, self-government. It's another person. She can be physical and legal. This natural and legal person shall, when a decision is adopted on the expropriation, carry out the procedure and make a decision on the expropriation, become the owner of the authorised property. It seems to me that it's forgotten in this debate. This person now this previous owner whose real estate has been expunged or expropriated, however painful and difficult it is, we all find it difficult to give up our property more once he becomes a powerful decision on the expropriation is not the owner. The person who has become the beneficiary of the expropriation has become the owner of such an expropriated property, but then, in that sense, the person who became the owner has the task and the purpose of carrying out the purpose for which the authorisation was carried out. So, to build an object, to perform certain works. But she says she owns it. What really sets that goal for her is what we've now been saying at the end of the debate through spatial plans and detailed editing of space. Now, as far as detailed plans to edit space. The detailed plan of editing space is then from the aspect of the owner and the obligation of the one that has made the property stronger because it makes the choice of the plot more detailed and what can be built. The detailed layout plan of space is not out of space and time, they do not live for themselves but must be in line with these higher documents, spatial plans that are the aggregate name for a number of spatial documents. But allow according to this provision of Article 8. one single, 7. one digression. It is precisely because when the user of the power of the solution becomes the owner, he has shown the need for one balance for legal certainty because the question arises when someone who is painful and difficult but can indeed ask for that property to be returned to him under certain conditions. And on the other hand, it's now being put here because I don't think there's enough emphasis in the debate on a ban on that property for five years. So this new owner of that property can't... For five years, it is an important security mechanism for the former owner because it is so certain that there will be no alienation of the property, i.e. that eventually whoever engages in such legal traffic is put at risk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because so far, if you've become the owner of the property, it's been written in the land books, there's been a reselling of someone from the third aspect of trust protection right in the land books because we're still making shifts and fixing and the trusts of the third person who acquired it can't be challenged, or it can be tried, but it's a question to succeed. That is why the Government, as the Proposer, has taken note of the comments made by both the ruling and the opposition representatives, and thus remains in the final proposal for a law that should limit this absolute time limit for the submission of requests for the annulment of the rightful decision on the authorisation. Thanks again for the debate and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69322	Thank you very much. We'll interrupt the session now. It's 15 o'clock. Bring the keys because it's a vote. It's 13,48 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69323	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Exemption. The amendments were submitted by HSP Representatives' Club and Alenka Kosisa's representative Chicin-Shain. Amendment 1. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69324	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is as follows. By our assessment, the Proposer finds it unfounded to be more unfavourable for those whose real estate has been awarded over a period shorter than the last 5 years because the provision of Article 7 refers to situations, hence those situations which will arise after the entry into force of this Act but only remind... The provisions of Article 15 of this Act apply to the proceedings under way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the current law, therefore, under the old law, there is no time limit for a solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69325	Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to the attached provision of Article 7 of the proposal, on the date of their entry into force, the proposal to repeal the expropriation solution could only be submitted to those to whom the property is... over a period shorter than the last 5 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the current provisions of the Law of Execution, that deadline would be unlimited. It would be unfair in such a drastic way to reduce that possibility, so a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force of these amendments and additions would satisfy the principles of morality and justice on the one hand and the principle of legal certainty on the other. I'm asking for a vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69327	Please vote. The result? 19 for, 2 abstentions, 62 against. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69328	Mr. President, the government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69329	What the hell was that? What fell? Nothing went down. Amendment 2 then.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69330	Amendment 2 Mr. President, the government does not accept. Namely, it cannot be prescribed and determined that the general provisions of the law exclude only a certain type of property agricultural land with due respect and understanding to explain this conclusion by allowing you to remind that regarding this argument what is authorized... It is settled under the Compensation Act, although the applicants here have initiated a procedure of the Compensation Act, these provisions do not apply to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69331	Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69332	Thank you very much. I guess I don't feel like reading again. I'm just asking for a vote please nice again for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69333	To vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 21 for, 3 abstentions, 62 against. Alenka Koshasha's amendment to Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69334	It is not accepted because it is already Article 42. the law on enforcement provided that the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act are applicable to appeal proceedings before the County Court if the law itself is not otherwise prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-30-0.u69335	There's no representative. There's a vote to vote on. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 11 votes for, 4 abstentions, 63 against did not get the necessary amendment to the majority. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 67 votes in favour and 23 against, the proposed law was passed along with the amendments adopted.
