ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78424	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is in front of the Government of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation in the Fiscalis 2003-2007 programme. What is important, therefore, is that it is a Community programme intended for members of the European Union. However, since Croatia is a framework agreement signed between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community in 2005, Croatia is therefore allowed status to be used equally in this programme as well as in all EU member states. The purpose of these programmes is, above all, coordination between workers working in the Croatian tax system and therefore workers working in the same, same jobs in the European Union system, so in this sense faster adaptation, better quality adjustment of the Croatian tax system prior to the accession of the European Union is ensured by this memorandum of understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Croatia. So activities that can be financed through the program. It is therefore a matter of organising a seminar of professional exchanges, so that experts from the European Commission come to us and help employees in the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration to be able to make better quality preparations for entry into the European Union. And, of course, holding various seminars and professional working meetings between the employees of the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore been the basis of Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union since 23 October 2006. The law on the enforcement of international contracts gave the incentive to initiate the process of confirming the memorandum in question, since it is indeed a memorandum that is very important to come into force as soon as possible so that these funds could be used during 2007. It is therefore proposed that this memorandum, i.e. this Memorandum Confirmation Act, be implemented by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78425	Thank you. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78426	Your Honor, Mr. President, I actually signed up for both memos, and I'm going to give up the second debate. Because I want to say something in principle because we're going to win on benches a lot of such memos. They are published here always in the original language, usually it is English. Therefore, it should be agreed in principle how to use terminology in accordance with the Croatian Constitution under the IPR system, if you want intellectual laziness, it is accepted as a technical concept of a memorandum, although it has a good Croatian concept of reminder, and this is a bigger problem when referring to Customs for 2007 means customs duties for 2007 and Fiscalis. So you just need to, I don't know why it's so subjective to destroying your own language, especially your professional language. You know, I work in a profession that's practically so termologically poor and health economy and medical sociology. If you were to go by a logic like this to just adopt... My aliens wouldn't have been able to develop their own professional language. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fate is small peripheral languages everywhere in the world that you are alienated to extinction. There are many projections of language development around 2020, 2100, and in these projections the Croatian language will be one of the most endangered European languages. Therefore, a great effort must be made in this area, so it is used whenever possible if it is not about abbreviations such as the CARDS case, but if it is about customs duties, then it can be used in the Croatian term, customs in 2007, instead of a memorandum of reminder and that this House of Higher House is made known. I know that executive power always humiliates us in one way or another. But we should just say a lot one time. On the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, we have clearly, without any effect, appealed to the legislators, to the state administration to do something about this. Now we'll get the Asylum Act in a few days. The constitution speaks of refuge. We're getting the Asylum Act again. You even have the counter-constitution of the term "it." And finally, when it comes to the very essence of the law, I would like to see that in an area that is now more and more often called the Western Balkans area of bone and benefit in other countries, it means how much they charge from the CARDS than these membership fees we have to pay. They're not big membership fees. In this case, I think 90,000 euros, in the other case is 75,000 euros. They're not big, but our president of the Parliament who's a very thrifty man knows that 20 thousand euros isn't a small amount of money, especially if you can charge everything from the CARDS. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78427	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation in the CUSTOMS 2007 programme. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that unanimously with 79 votes, the proposed final bill was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78430	... President take your stand to say gentlemen we will no longer tolerate such superficiality and destruction of Croatian. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78431	I suggested, I suggested strictly, strictly. Tightly, yes, yes, to fiscalis and customis be customs and taxes. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on Croatia's participation in the FISCALIS 2003 programme. - In 2007. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 79 votes for the proposed conclusion, the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78434	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community incentive measures in the field of employment. This Act was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament by emergency procedure since its entry into force is a necessary prerequisite for the launch of this project, which will be co-financed by this agreement. The fact that this law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure tells the fact that the deadlines for implementation of this project are very short given that the planned project must be fully implemented by the end of 2007, and only a few payments will be possible in 2008. The Memorandum of Understanding constitutes a legal basis allowing the financing of projects envisaged by the PHARE programme in the area of economic and social policy. In June 2003, the European Council adopted a conclusion on the opening of a programme towards countries in the process of stabilisation and accession. The participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community programmes shall be given the opportunity to participate in a greater number of open-source programmes to candidates for membership in the European Union. On 3 October 2004, the European Commission published a pre-accession strategy for the Republic of Croatia with the aim of supporting the Republic of Croatia in preparations for membership in the European Union, and in particular in bringing national legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. On 1 December 2005, the European Commission adopted a decision approving a national PHARE programme approving the financing of 23 project proposals proposed by the Republic of Croatia for funding under the national PHARE programme 2005. On 10 June 2002, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Community incentive measures in the field of employment which set out the objectives, procedures, criteria and deadlines for the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the activities set out in that programme. This memorandum is the usual content based on projects to realise funds in receiving countries of this form of financial assistance. The proposed memorandum is the basis for the grant of 2mm 250 000 euros. To implement this memorandum, it is necessary to ensure national participation of 30 000 euros in 2006, and co-financing from the Croatian Employment Institute's national funding of 30%, amounting to 4.5 million kuna. The aim of this law is to confirm the memorandum and create a technical, legal and administrative framework in which the financing measures will be implemented in the Republic of Croatia under the PHARE assistance programme set by the framework agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the participation of the Republic of Croatia in assistance programmes of the European Community. On the basis of this memorandum, the approved PHARE 2005 project will be implemented, active measures for the employment of groups threatened by social exclusion. The overall objective of this project is the economic and social assistance of the most sensitive groups in Croatian society in a way to increase their employment levels. The measures of the active employment policy of the dedicated group which... exclusion will facilitate access to the labour market for unemployed persons through the use of active employment policy measures created precisely according to their needs. [[You don't understand.]] We expect from this project the design of new measures that would be more effective in employment... group. [[You don't understand.]] We also expect a greater professional willingness of employees at the City Employment Service to create and implement an active employment policy. We also expect an increase in the level of employment of groups that threaten social exclusion. This memo contains two attachments. The first annex lays down rules relating to the financial contribution of the Republic of Croatia to Community incentive measures in the field of employment and the second annex sets out the control, return of funds and anti-fraud measures. Under this memorandum, the European Anti-Fraud Office will be authorised to carry out on-site inspections on Croatian territory and in accordance with the procedural provisions of the Council Regulation. These fraud inspections are prepared and conducted in close cooperation with the competent Croatian authorities that determine Croatia and which will be timely informed of the case, purpose and legal basis, inspection in order to provide all necessary assistance. If participants of the programme oppose checking or inspection on site, the Croatian authorities, acting in accordance with national rules, are obliged to provide all necessary professional assistance to the inspectors of the Commission, or the European Anti-Fraud Office, in order to enable them to carry out their duties, i.e. to carry out checks and inspections on the spot. Finally, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community encouraging measures in the field of employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78435	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78436	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the proposal for a Memorandum of Confirmation Law, and I tried to take a concrete look at employment, so I found that there were 700 unemployed in my own city, and then we found out in the conversation that 350 are unemployed, and 350 are unemployed, and then a little bit in the employment analysis, we found that actually one part of these employable people are just waiting for a job in their profession, one part of them doesn't want to work at all, most of them working on what's normal and they have to, because otherwise they wouldn't survive, but the problem is these 350 unemployed, so this law probably can help. Therefore, this law defines the implementation of the approved PHARE project in 2005 and the name of the active employment measure of groups that are threatening social exclusion. So it's not about the full unemployed, it's about a certain group, and it's definitely about the unemployed of the 700 I mentioned in the introduction. The project should define and encourage the measures that have been achieved so far, come up with new measures, clearly in order to increase the level of employability, but I should especially highlight the need to quote: "More expertise of employees in the Croatian Employment Service in creating and implementing an active employment policy." The end of the quote, which I think is extremely important. We heard that the memorandum allows for the use of 2 million euro's financial resources, which is certainly not small, and the co-financing of 30% sure that the project is secured in the budget as well as the participation of 30 thousand euros. So on the other hand, the financial side is fine. The project must be fully implemented by the end of 2007 and the urgent process of passing the law is fully justified. It is obvious that the positive trends in employment can be better through this project, so it is necessary to make good use of the grants offered. The Memorandum of Understanding, etc., defines an agreement between the European Community Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2006 to define the activities of the area, analysis, research, statistical cooperation, exchange of experience and good practice, participation and training, again, which is very important. Public employment services and the promotion of local employment. In its second annex, the Memorandum also defines financial control of the spending of funds and the possible recovery of unused funds and sanctioning possible abuses. This agreement can speed up very positive employment-enhancing trends, i.e. reducing unemployment and requires a very serious and hasty approach to its realisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78437	Thank you. Final review? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in Community incentive measures in the field of employment. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that unanimously with 79 votes for, the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78440	Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs. Here's a few sentences about this point. The Croatian government is using its public road construction programme for the period 2005. – Among other roads in 2008 is the completion of a full profile of the highway to Rijeka. We ourselves know from the media how dangerous this road is and very often because of its technical elements, accidents happen. That traffic route to the 5th corridor, so-called 5B corridor is extremely important for the port of Rijeka and for the general economic development of Croatia. Therefore, these last 44km are a priority and they are currently in the construction phase. The total value of the investment to complete this full phase is 290m euros, and the financial structure is closed as follows. 30m euros will be provided by the company Autoesta Rijeka-Zagreb, 210m euros are provided by the European Investment Bank loan, and on July 13th of this year, the Croatian Parliament confirmed the contract, and there are still these 50m euros to be financed by the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thus, the financial structure for the project would be closed and would have a full profile by the end of 2008. The loan itself means 50m euros, within 25 years. The beginning is 4 years, and the interest is variable, 6-monthly eurybor plus 1%. Here, I'd like to finish my exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78441	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78442	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is one of the legal proposals that is truly pleasant and supportive and to defend because around it, I believe, there is indeed a political consensus. The Republic of Croatia has also become a full member of the EBRD, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, three months after recognition by members of the European Union, with a share of around 73m euros. Here, therefore, in those years many nostalgics believe to have failed years. The purpose of this bank is to finance projects of Central and Eastern European countries that apply the principles of multilateral democracy of pluralism and market economy. The total value of the loans that have been invested in us so far is 1.6 billion euros for about 70 projects, and the value of these projects is about 4 billion euros, which is really worth trusting as well. These projects include, for example, the restoration of air navigation and highway reconstruction systems, the reconstruction of electrical distribution networks, local infrastructure, environmental protection, the restoration of railway locomotives, etc. So life-important projects. Good cooperation, recognition and trust in the Republic of Croatia continues with this loan for the construction of the II B stage of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, i.e. to build a full profile of the highway of 44.26 kilometers from Hikovica to Stara Sušica. It is worth mentioning that in addition to these 50m euros for this purpose, 210m euros from the loan of the European Investment Bank, as well as 30m euros from the company's own funds, Rijeka-Zagreb. As the secretary of state said for 25 years, a four-year start is favourable. We believe that thanks to our valuable and excellent builders, we will not have to pay 0.5% a year for unused amounts as this contract provides. In addition to building and trusting in the Republic of Croatia, the most important point is that the loan will not be returned from the state budget, but only the company "Autocesta Rijeka-Zagreb d.d. will do so.". These are, therefore, real investments that pay themselves, repay credit, and many others benefit from it, profits, and benefits and safety of driving. This is one of the projects that gives a lot more than it takes. The more such investments we will advance faster, the faster we will reduce the number of unemployed and the faster our standard of living will grow. So as soon as we bring this law and accept the urgency of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78443	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78444	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must express my satisfaction that the government has started to build this project, build a full profile of the Zagreb-Rijek highway and the Croatian Government has adopted a report on 20 July 2006 from the negotiations and authorised the Minister of Finance to sign a guarantee contract for the construction of the project II B of the Zagreb-Rijeka highway stage. ... the guarantee contract, the loan contract between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Guarantee and the Rijeka-Zagreb Autoway as a shareholder company owned by the state of Croatia is confirmed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the conditions offered by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the company "Autoposta Rijeka-Zagreb", the loan will be granted for 25 years at the beginning of 4 years, with an interest rate very favourable, variable six-month euro... 1% on 30.10. is 4.71%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is good to say a few words about the Zagreb-Rijek highway, which is a total length of 146 kilometers, after the first stage is completed in the full profile of the highway is 91 kilometers, and the remaining 55 kilometers is in the half-way profile. The phase of two constructions consists of building a 55km highway on its final full profile, consisting of a double course of 15 viaducts and bridges and 11 tunnels. The second phase is divided into two stages, phase A and phase B for which we give and bring this Law and Guarantee. Phase A, a little bit about her. The building is full of highway profiles on the Kupljak-Vrbovska stock in the length of 11 and a half kilometers with very demanding facilities on that stock as a viaduct... Of a length of 924 metres and a tunnel of a Great Glasgow of a thousand 126 meters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The total length of objects on that stock is 3.2 kilometers, which is 38% of the length of the share in construction. Phase B highway construction is an addition to the full profile of the 44.26km highway from Kikovica to Stara Sušica and is divided into five shares. On the stake there are 9 tunnels, 10 viaducts, one bridge of a total length of 11.83 kilometers, totaling 26% of the total length, and points to the exceptional complexity of the terrain and works to be carried out. Contracts with contractors for the second B phase were signed on 25 May 2006 and have been introduced into work and started work already on May 29th. Construction works will last until 2008. It is good to say that the project also envisions the construction of the Vukova Gorica-Netretic knots in the area of Karlovac County because there have been many, many questions in this Parliament, as well as in the Municipality of Karlova County, why there is no such knot and which is necessary for Croatia to connect with Slovenia and then Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reasons for building a full profile of highways should also be sought in traffic accidents, accidents that happen unfortunately on that highway and statistics, unfortunately, it is evident that a large number of traffic accidents happening on that highway are happening precisely on the part of the highway and that it is as such dangerous for traffic. The Rijeka-Zagreb highway during 2006 had a total of 11 traffic accidents with 17 people killed. Of the 11 accidents listed on the peninsula, there were 8 of them with 14 deaths, and on highway 3 with only 3 died which was good with only 3 deaths, and compared to the peninsula, it is certainly not if we know that the highway is 91 kilometers, and the highway is 55 kilometers away, then we can see from that data how much more dangerous the peninsula is and what is interesting from the analysis of drivers that caused the accident were life-cycles between, over 45 years of age. We are always saying that young people are wild on highways, this statistics is something different, but it is also warning us that we use this highway a lot that these people over 45 are just business people on the route of Zagreb-Rijeka or Zagreb-Istra and certainly this accident data justifies the investment of highway companies and this guarantee is the adoption of this Act and as such should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78445	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78446	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr. Vukic's incorrect allegations that this government was going into a project to complete the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. That's an incorrect quote. It is true that it was created as activities of past governments, past governments, and this government, and the truth is that because of the lack of this government and the change of leadership, the completion of this highway River-Zagreb will be a year late.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78447	My colleague Antesic, I listened very carefully to the representative. He said the government was moving forward, continuing construction, not in construction, but in continuing construction, which is an important difference. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78448	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I can indeed confirm that anyone who listened carefully then could hear that Mr. Vukic said that this government had started to continue construction, and we are most recently aware that the highway was built at most in full profile and remains the 55-mile radius that needs to be built into the full profile of the highway. If we could just look at this text of the agreement, or the contract that is before us, we probably shouldn't have something special to talk about. It is therefore a matter of providing additional resources for the completion of the project and, of course, it is a project that we all need to welcome, and especially this data that, at the end of the speech of our fellow Vucic, was told about traffic accidents and human victims on the site, is this additional incentive and argument that really requires a semi-road as soon as possible to turn the highway with a full profile and is pleased to conclude that we can expect it already in 2008. The largest number of accidents, but unfortunately, and what's particularly important with the terrible consequences and with the greatest human casualties is happening on that part of which he treated as a peninsula. All of us who ride that share more often are witnesses, so I'm going to say literally madmen on the highway where people run across the line, where they run in bandages, where they run right-hand on the stop lane, and I think it's a miracle that we don't have more car accidents and more deaths on that part. Here's just a few more technical data from this proposal. Thus, a total length of 146 kilometers of which 91 kilometers was already said in full profile and remains 55km to be completed. The first phase of this extension or phase 2A is already being done and everything agreed by it next year will be operational. There remains a phase 2B of a total length of 44.26km and it will be a stock from Kikovica to Stara Susica divided into 5 shares and in function in 2008. The financial arrangement itself, I also think, should be praised for the fact that it is 50m euros needed for the final financing of 25 years with 4 years of starting. And here, the pleasure will be to all of us when in 2008 we ride with a full profile of the highway from Zagreb to Rijeka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78449	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78450	... almost daily we can see news of traffic accidents, often with very severe and tragic consequences on the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. [[Specially enabled.]] This applies in particular to the part that has not been constructed by the second wheel, given the fact that most drivers are driving at the same speed as the full profile part. In the situation of intensive traffic, which is on this road daily throughout the year and given its geographical and economic importance, it is necessary to complete the full profile in order to have better flow and traffic safety in particular in winter conditions. Although part of the funds to continue construction was secured and available after the completion of the Bosiljevo II-Vrbovska stock, it was marked by the government's decision to step in for 2 years and investment in highways was declared a deficit of the police government. If the construction was continued with the intensity it would have been completed by this year and at the latest next year. However, I am glad that the government has at least partially recognized its error in this example and is correcting it by this contract. I say partly because there is still a burning question of the Rijeka bypass, i.e. its northern lane, which forms a joint of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway with the border crossing of the Hole or the main entrance of tourists to our country from the west and later its continuation towards the Yellow Ark and Dalmatia. In the summer months, we witness a horror that takes place on these ten kilometers [10 km] of roads every day because there is a great suffocation that this one-way road cannot be swallowed in one direction, so there are miles [5 km] of columns that do not crawl but just stand there for hours at a time. The consequences are frequent traffic accidents on this stock, and rarely with tragic consequences. If such a thing happens in the tunnel, an additional tragedy in such cases makes it a rerouting of traffic through the city of Rijeka because only then is there a real hell and a blockade of a city that lasts for hours that we witnessed this summer on two occasions. That is why my colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to the budget of the Croatian highways for 2007 and I hope that this amendment will also be adopted. Since I drive this highway on the road to Zagreb every week, I am also familiar with the situation throughout the year and I welcome the decision to intensify its completion in full profile, so I will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78451	Thank you. Corrections to the alleged, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78452	Mr. President! I'm correcting the false allegations of colleague Perman who said that the government has finally seen its error and continues to build a full profile. That's not true, colleague Perman. The government is only in line with the construction dynamic of state roads and highways continues to build highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78453	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78454	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's what I'm going to do to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Perman when he says it's a government mistake not to do a river bypass. We're all witnessing these traffic jams, and we all want it to be done as soon as possible. However, this raises the question and responsibilities of the county or local authorities to produce all the necessary documentation. Well, if they'd done a little better, maybe we could've gone with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78455	Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78456	Thank you very much. I join your enthusiasm to complete the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. However, I would like to replicate to you in one part how much the government cares about the Rijeka transport hub. He is concerned that in the state budget for this year he has placed 20% less funds for the Rupa-Rijeka-Zuta Lokva stock. The Rijeka transport node is completely clogged. So, it's blocked and on the other hand it opens new traffic routes with all due respect that don't lead anywhere. So, new traffic routes are opening up. And the Rijeka transport node that is totally stifled, through which the grotesque tourists who come to Croatia, reduces 20% in this year from 49 million in 2006 to 40 million in this year, and that is the concern of this Croatian government for Rijeka Transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78457	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78458	Thank you very much. Well, they can only agree and join in a certain way this finding or criticism regarding the river route and the construction of the Rupa-Rijeka-Zuta Lokva highway. And here's what I'm going to do, even if I hurt my Rules of Procedure to answer to my colleague, Ahel, who mentioned the county's role in obtaining permission...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78459	You can't answer that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78460	So the county has absolutely no influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78461	State Secretary, Final Review Zdravko Livaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78462	I don't care. I've got... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78463	Here, on the very spot means the dynamics of all the works on this highway will be within the agreed deadline. All jobs are already entrusted through public competitions. Therefore, the 2008 deadline is guaranteed with this loan and the one driving this direction, which has many people present here, is seen there intensively working in very difficult conditions because the share is quite difficult. However, we know about the amendment to the state budget of Ms. Agglomeration MPs. However, you would have to deny some kind of expressed attitude here. In particular, the road currently covered by the total investment of 55km is 310m euros. I'm not saying it's just Rijeka, it's an extremely important part of the European corridor, but the fact is that it's 2 billion and 325 million kuna just on the full profile of the highway completion. Croatian highways built a hole-Rijeka stock last year that cost 4100 22 million kuna. The fact is that it is not a move from Rijeka to Žuta Lokva via Senj entered the state budget in implementation but with the amount sufficient and all the design contracts are signed so that the preparation of this course will be for the next one, so it will be fully prepared with building permits for the next planning period. As far as the state roads that were mentioned here were primarily passing through the River of Croatia, in whose jurisdiction this performance of the part from the Biorac to Orehovica began the works on those parts where we started building permits, but the former administration of the Croatian roads did not prepare for the previous four years and unfortunately Rijeka and all of us can not, we could not move quickly into the process which we agree to a major problem in the traffic integration of the whole of Croatia. These days, following the completion of the technical examinations of the shares between Orehovica and St. Kuzm will be placed on the market, we have had some problems with the unforeseeed rinks. It's been rehabilitated so, as far as that part is concerned, I think in a few days it's just going to be opening the papers. Soon before this respected home will be the confirmation of the loan agreement for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, meaning with this same bank for the shares of St. Kuzm towards Krizist, I am talking about the four-way roads. And unlike what's been said here, enough money is foreseen for itself from Orehovica means to the Director for that stage of work. Therefore, the total investment, which is invested in the passage through Rijeka during the fifth eighth road, is called 9 hundred 64 million kuna, and that is the real data. And I'd also like to mention the road between this one, so from the Orehovica-Holy Kuzam section. A whole new road is being built that's in the project... For the sake of the Rijeka harbor and that road will be finished by the summer next year along with those complicated tunnels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All property relations are resolved in both maritime goods and Croatian railways so that we will fully discuss these deadlines and I think that indeed Rijeka that our goal is to get what we all deserve in the traffic sense, so as not to talk about the new railway now, etc. ... Well, I do what I say as a rule and I do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78464	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project of the construction of the II B stage of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that unanimously with 79 votes in favour, the final draft of the law has been voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78467	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! ... that the second reading is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the first debate that was held here during the summer session, it is important to say that the European Commission has issued a report on the failure of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, etc. progress report stressing that as far as monetary developments are concerned, so the change in legislation regarding the Croatian People's Bank was concerned that there were no changes and that it is necessary to demonstrate in this regard the willingness to change the position of the Croatian National Bank before entering the European Union. In any case, this proposal for a final law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank actually confirms once again the willingness of the Republic of Croatia to make changes with the aim of achieving the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. What is important, therefore, to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian National Bank concerns the integration of the Croatian National Bank into the European System of Central Banks at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union and the transfer of part of the power of the Croatian National Bank, as well as the inclusion of which is no less important than the Croatian National Bank and thus Croatia in general in the economic policy of the European Union based on the principles of open market economy and free competition. These changes also create a framework which is no less important for the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia. We all know very well that Croatia's large part of its savings are actually held in euro, and in this sense, by amending this legal framework and by creating a legal framework for the introduction of the euro confirms the willingness of the Republic of Croatia to adopt the currency in a certain way, of course later when the time comes and when all the master criteria that will ensure permanent and unequivocal stability on this system, which in the last 20 years, Croatian citizens have unfortunately experienced and lost their property in a series of examples. This is what the Government will show, so when the Parliament votes this law, it will confirm this readiness. It is therefore necessary to say that this amendment of the law is related to the negotiations on Chapter 17 of economic and monetary policy for which it has been completed and explanatory screening and bilateral screening, so the screening on which the review of the acquis is based, to avoid the English name, where Croatia has shown its legal situation and the European Commission therefore to Croatia. In this context, these amendments and additions to this law are also fully in line with the negotiating positions confirmed by the National Committee. I repeat, therefore, that the amendment to this Law is already fully in place and that is why a negotiating position adopted by the National Committee of the Republic of Croatia for Accession has been incorporated here, and thus only confirms the already expressed position of the National Committee, which is made up of the most respected members of the Parliament. Therefore, the debate held during the first reading of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget made an observation that it is necessary to lay down provisions relating to the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union as well as the introduction of the EUR as monetary units of the Republic of Croatia. So it's not necessary to do that. The negotiating position and negotiations, therefore, and "screening" have shown that such a thing is necessary now to establish to show readiness in that part of the adjustment since it should undoubtedly take effect at that moment and in that sense, these obligations are included in the provisions of the proposed law that is before you. The Committee on Legislatives also commented on Articles 1 and 6. The proposal for a law stating that it is necessary to review a solution by which the Croatian Parliament would not in future confirm the Statute of the Croatian National Bank and express its opinion that it is not acceptable for the Croatian Parliament to give an opinion on the Statute of the Croatian National Bank. Also, this remark could not be accepted because the negotiating position was thus formulated or the requirement was that the independence of the Croatian National Bank should therefore be clearly sought in that part of the Croatian National Bank. I would also say that we have added the obligation here to the first reading, therefore, of the Croatian National Bank, the obligation of the governor to address this House twice a year, therefore to the Parliament, and therefore to inform the Parliament of his business, his work and his monetary movements. So, with a half-yearly and annual report, the additional efforts and additional release of the governors before the Croatian Parliament will, of course, be reconsidered. So in this segment, Parliament will have very important control over the work of the Croatian National Bank and, of course, what it aims to ensure macroeconomic and monetary stability and, of course, part of the business that is extremely important for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is the supervision of banks that will remain in the hands of the Croatian National Bank after joining the European Union, and the Croatian National Bank will also, in that sense, ensure macroeconomic and financial stability in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the government therefore proposes to the Parliament to accept this Final Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian National Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78468	Thank you. Financial committees, state budget, European integration. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78469	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community considered the reasons and conditions that impose the need to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian National Bank and proposed that the proposed amendments and amendments to this Act be accepted. The existing Act on the Croatian National Bank is, to the most extent, in line with the legal property of the European Union and has mainly integrated solutions under the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks. However, during the preparation of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, economic and monetary policies during this year have been observed several provisions of the existing law which do not comply with that Protocol. These remarks and opinions of the negotiating team were respected and incorporated into the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian National Bank. Most of the amendments and additions to the legal provisions relate to the integration of the Croatian National Bank into the European System of Central Banks, the transfer of part of the power of the Croatian National Bank to the European System of Central Banks, and the involvement of the Croatian National Bank in the general economic policy of the European Union based on the principles of an open market economy and free competition. The amendments and additions also create a legal framework for the introduction of EUR in the Republic of Croatia when conditions are met. The deadline for the introduction of the EUR is not formally defined but it is expected that each new member is constantly taking steps in that direction. These changes do not mean excluding the Croatian National Bank in the implementation of its tasks but also enables the Croatian National Bank to participate actively in the identification of monetary and foreign exchange policy at the level of the entire system of European central banks and the issue of banknotes and coins but respecting the common interest of the Member States of the European Union. Under the final draft law, the integration of the Croatian National Bank into the European System of Central Banks will take place when Croatia is admitted into the European Union. This specifically means that provisions, certain provisions and all new chapters, Chapter 8 of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and Chapter 9 of the introduction of EUR as monetary units of the Republic of Croatia will apply when that happens. Until then, we must have a legislative solution and a harmonised number of areas and this monetary area with the acquis of the European Union. It should also be pointed out that the Croatian National Bank remains independent in part of its tasks relating to the approval and supervision of banks and the regulation of their business in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian National Bank has an obligation to inform the Croatian Parliament twice a year about the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. The current obligation of the Croatian National Bank was to inform the Parliament 5 months after the financial year ended. According to both new and existing provisions, the Croatian Parliament can discuss and draw specific conclusions, but they cannot influence the independence of the Croatian National Bank until the existing law has decided it. The financial independence of the Croatian National Bank is reflected in the fact that the Croatian National Bank is obliged to cover its potential losses from the funds of its own reserves and excludes the possibility of covering them from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. By retaining the obligation of the Croatian National Bank to pay the surplus of the revenues it does not make in its own reserves into the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The composition and status of members of the Croatian National Bank are also changed so that the advice is made by the governor and eight jokes by the governor and they now have the status of employees of the Croatian National Bank and must accordingly regulate their position. And after the term of office of a member of the council, they remain employees of the Croatian National Bank and regulate their rights and obligations by means of a labour contract. The Governor and Vice Governor shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Following this, we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community believe that this Final Proposal amends and supplements the Law on the Croatian National Bank, thus amending the position of the Croatian National Bank of the Croatian Parliament once again confirms the willingness of the Republic of Croatia to make changes with the aim of achieving the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and we support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78470	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78471	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Let me immediately, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, express our view that it is of course necessary to bring all of our legislation into line with the legal gains of the European Union and with the commitments undertaken and, in this respect, we certainly support the solutions required in the idea. However, the question arises as to what is the proposed way and regulation related to the achievement of this idea. We fear that in this respect, the Republic of Croatia has gone a few steps further and has taken such solutions as are essentially fundamental objectives and the very constitutional position of the Croatian National Bank... They're questioning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's this about? First, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 53 clearly states that the Croatian National Bank is the central bank of the Republic of Croatia, that the position of the rights and duties of the Croatian National Bank are governed by the law, I stress the law and that the Croatian National Bank is independent in its work and also responsible for the Croatian Assembly. However, we have here and in the context of the proposed law and in the norms themselves a clear clear indication of where it is said among other things: “The essence of the proposed amendments to the laws is the transfer of the powers of the Croatian National Bank relating to the identification and implementation of monetary and foreign policy, the management of the international reserves of the Republic of Croatia, the issue of banknotes and coins, as well as the regulation and improvement and supervision of the payment system to the system, the European system of central banks. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are openly asking ourselves how, in such a context, when such powers are transferred from the Central Bank, so from the Croatian National Bank to the European Central Bank, the objectives of Article 3 can be achieved. The law on the Croatian National Bank, which says that the main objective of the National Bank is to quote its powers to maintain price stability. Then, without questioning the achievement of its basic objective, the Croatian National Bank will support economic policy, etc. etc. When it virtually basic powers relating to the management and regulation and improvement and supervision of the payment system are practically transferred to someone else and will no longer perform that part. It is one question to coordinate the position of the Croatian National Bank to coordinate its work in the Republic of Croatia according to the principles and positions of the Central Bank, to bring the banking and financial market into line in both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, and the second is to transfer these powers. Our second observation is clear and it appears to be a formal-legal one where it is said that the Croatian National Bank fully respects the provisions of the Statutes of the European and Central Bank of course and of these other banks, the Alliance of Banks in its tasks. Now, as far as all this is concerned, the conduct and receipt of monetary policy, foreign exchange operations, the holding and management of international reserves, the smooth development of the payment system, etc. But colleagues, at this point, the key legal regulation governing the Croatian National Bank is no longer the Law on the National Bank, nor the Constitution of Croatia, nor its acts, but it is the Statute of the European Central, Alliance of Central Banks. In such a situation, the first question arises whether we need to adopt such a law to amend the Constitution and to prescribe that the position, rights and duties of the Croatian National Bank are governed by the Statute of the European Central Bank and the law. Although the question is whether we can enter this constitution at all, given that it is an international organisation of communities or that we should, before adopting such amendments and supplementing the laws, actually make one agreement, that is, an international contract between us and the competent European banks that should be ratified in the Croatian Parliament by a two-thirds majority, because they transfer financial powers to the International Organisation and the Community, not only financial powers, but also the financial sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Third. To what extent and in what direction this form of sovereignty goes. It is extremely important to note these questions not only about the provision cited but also about the new provision of Article 64i, but above all also about the fact that, among other things, it says in 64.b: “The Croatian National Bank is an integral part of the European System of Central Banks, which, of course, is in accordance with Article 43. The Statute of the European System of Central Banks applicable to Member States with a temporary exemption, i.e. derogation. The question arises, in fact, in what regard does this exemption appear and in what respect is it found in Article 43. The Statute shall fully apply to these countries. It wasn't really worked out in the law. Fourth. Of course, there is a very important question of how it is possible to implement the new article amended and updated Article 58, i.e. now Article 19 of this Law, where it is said that the Croatian National Bank twice annually informs the Croatian Parliament and now does not question the independence of the Croatian Bank, the Croatian Parliament can carry out the debate and draw specific conclusions on the basis of the information submitted. Well, you know, the Croatian Parliament first doesn't need any consent from the National Bank that it can draw conclusions if it is the most legislative and representative body of this country. Secondly, the Croatian Parliament also makes laws, and it makes some decisions, so it makes conclusions, so it makes the Constitution, and it makes constitutional laws, so imagine now what kind of kindness we have received from the Croatian National Banks that we can even draw conclusions as a Parliament. That's not the point. It is a question of whether the Croatian Parliament is thus denying its constitutional position as a representative of the people and citizens that it can regulate certain issues in the interests of its country and its people and its citizens by law and in relation to the Croatian National Bank. It seems that here is actually trying outside the system in full and the activities of the Croatian Parliament by issuing the position of the Croatian National Bank which I personally think would not be good for Croatia or for the National Bank. It is further said that the Croatian National Bank can open accounts and other market participants in accordance with the needs related to the performance of its tasks, the same Article 59. Now imagine, in accordance with its needs it can, and what about the needs of other market participants, whether they have the right to ask the National Bank to open accounts so that they can develop economic and any other activity or it will turn into a position that, in accordance with the statutes and decisions of the central European banks, it actually carries out monopoly positions in individual companies and on our market, and not just elsewhere. Opening between other accounts and accounts and through this kind of business and action. We believe that this question should be very precisely regulated and arranged not to allow us to do so. However, to enable competition, but an equal constitutional and legal and market position, both domestic and all other companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that will appear here and will operate in this area. Of course, a lot of interesting solutions also occur with regard to certain things that continue to apply in accordance with the Statute, e.g. the entry of capital into European banks, in European, the transfer of part of international reserves as well as other issues, be careful. But the transfer of part of the international reserves of the Croatian National Bank. Other issues related to the integration of the Croatian National Bank into the European Central Bank will be resolved in accordance with the Statute of the Central Bank. So wait, first question whose international reserves are? Whose money is that? I think, in the end and in the explanation, they wrote to him themselves that it was the money of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. The question arises which law will now actually transfer and manage that part of the money as part of its capital in participation there decide, in accordance with the regulations of the Statute of the European Central Bank, not the regulations and laws of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Law on the Croatian National Bank which adopted this Assembly. These are things that are so serious that we simply ask. We are looking for answers to these questions before we can even vote on the final bill. Of course these are the most complex, serious questions. But there are some other questions that are very interesting, actually strange. For example, it is said that the governor of the Croatian National Bank is a member of the General Council of the European Central Bank. We determine the law, and now who will choose it, set it up, etc. I don't know, if I'm already calling for all the statutes, then why don't we write in accordance with the provisions of the Statutes of that and that of the European Central Bank in which it is provided. Because the fact that we write in law is not binding at all on the European Central Bank is not binding on its acts. Our law doesn't oblige her. Or another question. Article 64f states that the Governor of the Croatian National Bank is entitled to protect against the European Court of Justice in relation to the decision on resolution and resolution referred to in Article 42 of this Law. So I would like to remind you that before the European Court of Justice, a Croatian citizen of any and any of the citizens of the European Union has the right to protect his rights if they are concerned with the violated Constitution of guaranteed human rights and freedoms, but of course after he has exhausted the legal procedure and legal order against his country's judicial authority. What does this mean now? That we have one person per person who is above all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and who will protect their rights independently of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. But forgive your colleagues, then this institution that he represents is in a different position than the Republic of Croatia, according to its sovereignty and its territoriality and of course the rule of law applicable to it. Furthermore, there is a rather interesting solution that, of course, causes the need to simply comment. We have, for example, the following situation here that, it is said that members, i.e. the right and obligations from the working relationship of members of the National Bank Council, will be governed by the contract on the work of this law and the Statute of the Croatian National Bank. Now, among other things, Article 16 states that in the case of a discharge of a member of the Council, and they are actually vice governors, they have the right to pay in the month before the execution of a new job, and for a year from the end of their duties. All officials in the Republic of Croatia also have this transitional period, so they do not have the right to compensation, or compensation from, but from 6 months plus 6 months 50% salary. You're guaranteed full salary here for a year. You know. So it is again an attempt to place above the position, then, among other things, it is said in the article 23 on the right of members of the National Bank Council who have not been established by the new law or the Statute of the Croatian National Bank to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. Not colleagues, it has to be the other way around. The law on preventing conflicts of interest is a law that protects and, among other things, is a legal remedy in the fight against bribery, corruption, and all other doubles, not only illegal but immoral behaviours. Therefore, they must be subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and, of course, if they are more stringent in certain provisions of the Law on the Croatian National Bank and the Statute of the Croatian National Bank, then additionally... Because it is a specific duty to be performed and to guarantee the financial and monetary security of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it is quite interesting to note here also in Article 36, i.e. the current proposal on amendments and amendments to Article 7 that all the Republic of Croatia, units of local, regional, self-government, then other public bodies in the Republic of Croatia that could not be credited or could not be credited. The question is, what about organizations and communities that have so-called communities? Public powers. Do they have any? They weren't mentioned. We ask this as a clear question so that we can resolve some questions. And the last thing. In view of the Constitution, the constitutional provision of Article 53, which clearly states that the Croatian National Bank, among other things, is responsible for the Croatian Assembly, and one of the forms of responsibility is related to the legal harmonisation of the system and the possibility of legal responsibility. The question is, however, why would the Croatian Parliament be intruding into the independence of the Croatian National Bank if it confirms its statute in the aspect of determining, among other things, whether the statute has developed its own provisions to develop the degree of independence in accordance with what the Constitution and the law stipulates, which this Croatian Parliament has adopted, for an independent institution such as the Croatian National Bank. There are other questions involved now. What, therefore, would simply be infatuating independence? That's very interesting to me. Unless the statute became a one-off legal act that can regulate a whole series of other issues that the Law on the Croatian National Bank simply did not provide for. And since it is predicted that the Croatian National Bank will transfer its very important functions in fact and perform in accordance with the Statute of the European Central Bank then it will be clear that this statute will have to be in line with, among other things, the Law on the Croatian National Bank and with this Statute of the European Central Bank, the European banks in which the Croatian National Bank is going. And that is why it is now imperative that the Croatian Parliament confirms this statute if it was not until yesterday, rather than vice versa, not to confirm it. That is why we believe that this Final Bill should not be adopted for now but rather that it should be concluded that it should go into third reading and that all these comments and suggestions that we have from our proposer are once again debated for a reason to achieve two basic objectives. To bring this Law into line with Croatia's needs and its entry into the European Union and, on the other hand, to preserve both financial and banking sovereignty and territorial integrity and the possibility of achieving the fundamental objectives of the free market and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78472	Thank you. Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78473	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I was going to wait until the end but I had a need to report after these few remarks by the distinguished representative Arlovic. I would say, therefore, that part relating to the transfer of powers regarding price stability and from retention and macroeconomic stability to the European system of central banks, I would like to note, therefore, that this applies to the moment when Croatia will enter the European Union. At the same time, this is also the objective of the European systems of central banks, i.e. the European Central Bank. In order for Croatia to join them at all, it must meet that criterion. So it's self-evident. When it comes to the part about taking over certain, for example, the statutes of the European System of Central Banks and other legal acts, again applies to the period and all of this, most of the things you refer to refer to are the period when Croatia enters the European Union. And I think it is very well known for all of us that Croatia cannot enter the European Union before the Treaty of Accession is confirmed, has ratified here in the Parliament, in which it will all be clearly stated. And it clearly states in the transitional and final provisions that all of Chapter VIII should enter into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Therefore, all these things will not come into force at all today, or at the time when this Law will be passed. What the promoter, therefore, wanted and confirmed in the negotiating position by the National Committee, in which I repeat, the distinguished members of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, is the willingness to show that at the moment of entry into the European Union we will respect this segment because monetary policy is an extremely important segment of the entire and single market of the European Union to which Croatia wants us to belong. So also as far as international reserves are concerned, as regards the transfer, so you also know very well that the Treaty of Accession, I repeat, will ratify here. There is also expected to be a referendum. Therefore, Croatian citizens will vote for it and there is no entry here and nothing other than Croatian citizens is done. The Croatian National Bank report in front of the Parliament is also in line with all the best world practices in the world. Both in America and in the European Union, therefore, always the governors are given their opinion at least twice a year, and sometimes they go before Parliament and Parliament, or Parliament, and therefore they are given their opinion, so they are discussed and thus given a certain conclusion on their work. Finally, as far as lending to the public sector is concerned, the entire public sector is therefore excluded from lending by the Croatian National Bank. No Croatian National Bank credits under this article. So, any segment of the state just to avoid, I repeat, all those traumas of the Croatian economy from the 1980s and from the early 1990s that were due to the war, but primarily because of the period of the 1980s when the Croatian National Bank credited, the then National Bank of Croatia, many segments of the economy, for which it was not authorised, or its business that would allow lasting macroeconomic stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78474	Thank you. For the HSS club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78475	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If this Final Bill proposal were to be accepted by the Croatian National Bank's amendments and additions in the unaltered form in which the Government proposed it, then it could also be called the "Law on Confirming the Loss of Croatian Monetary Sovereignty". As the ultimate goal of all amendments and additions, so is the National Bank Act that has been passed in the last 7,8 years in this House of Commons. It may be in itself and it would not be so bad if we didn't ask ourselves and why, if it is entirely certain that this monetary sovereignty will be lost by entering the European Union and that we absolutely have an agreement on that, about entering. Which is why we have not used sovereignty and the fact that our national currency, kuna, can make an extremely large contribution to the development of the Croatian economy and that it can create a balanced rhythm of the development of the Croatian economy. For what reason do we reject all that we have been able to accomplish in advance? Which is why for many years, and it's not like there isn't, Mr. Secretary of State, practice or there's been no practice of being in charge of the central state in its central bank. Even if the vault records and the debtors weren't supposed to be taken on the secondary market, they were supposed to be on the primary market. Which is why the effects that apparently lie on the side of the major foreign reserves that Croatia has never been or have not been in the most appropriate way in the development of the Croatian economy. These are the reasons that need to be discussed, to discuss today when we talk about the final bill that has apparently stuck to exactly what nothing has changed. So the reasons they brought to come today The final bill of law remained the same. The consequences are equally bad. Unfortunately, we cannot find reasons in the HSS Club to support this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Bank Act because we believe there is no need. We do not want to deny it, deny that everything that has been signed and everything that needs to be harmonised on the monetary plan and should not be harmonised. Of course we should, but I'm afraid we don't use our time in the best form in front of us. I agree that I will not act immediately, but I will act on certain provisions on the day we enter the European Union, but we have practically disbanded ourselves with a whole series of mechanisms. I will start from the relationship this House has when it comes to future relations with the Croatian National Bank. We no longer confirm the Statute of the Croatian National Bank. This is explained by a whole series of restrictions that are necessary because this would reduce the independence of the Croatian National Bank. So this House if it discussed and confirmed the statutes, and we all know what the Statute of the Croatian National Bank would then affect the independence of the Central Bank. And does anyone remember in this House that through the debate on the statutes came in any way that we disputed the independence of the Central Bank? It's just not possible. So what's this Home's job? Well, that's to make sure that the monetary policy holder behaves in accordance with the demands of our society, our economy, our citizens. If we cannot influence the statute that will define both objectives and tasks, and jobs and obligations, and then the question arises and what will we affect if we cannot influence it? Therefore, I do not see why the Croatian Parliament would continue to confirm the Statute of the Croatian National Bank. Secondly, Article 5 tries to find the most appropriate term to determine the course lies with one to say the fatal problem. Our export economy has been persistently repeating for years that the course is one of the main reasons for the non-competitiveness of the exporting Croatian economy, that the policy of the course for exporters is unacceptable. We can agree with this by respecting the great responsibility of Croatian citizens who would negatively reflect the change in the course policy, but of course we must agree that we cannot even throw our own economy on our knees and ask them for good results of competitiveness and the rest. Therefore, it is necessary and yet there is still Mr. Secretary of State to experience that these two seemingly incompatible things are reconciled, and it is necessary in some way to evaluate our exporters, and today the words of the exporter mean, in fact, the current Croatian producer. They needed to be evaluated by another measure of fiscality, any other policy. There are such solutions in our neighbouring countries that this imbalance of curvature does not break on exporters, bearers of production in Croatia, we can freely say. Therefore, Article 5 deals with discussions on the best use of expressions, and I think we should deal with the content of the problem. Secondly, Article 7 reiterates nicely again that any lending is prohibited, there is no lending of the central Croatian state, better it is in debt on the external market, better it continues to increase external debt, and we know that the difference between this borrowing and that which could be objectively large in circumstances because today, unfortunately, we have to take other people's money to cover the deficit or to finance some of the activities of the central state or public administration. What is also unacceptable for us and we hold that there is no reason not to be in this final draft of the law, is not in the fact that the Croatian National Bank, the advice will seem to be from the governor and 9 members, it is fine, but that the Croatian Parliament will not be able to discuss it in case it determines that such trends have occurred in monetary policy that seriously harm both the Croatian economy and the Croatian society to discuss it and replace someone who is responsible for it. If there has been a defect with the banks, either with other participants in monetary policy that this Parliament will no longer have the opportunity to replace the one who has sinned but will be covered by the European Central Bank's cloak as if it had been elected by the European Parliament. Still this House is elected by our governor, our members of the Council, not the European Parliament. When it comes to the turn of the European Parliament, then we will discuss whether it is the same. For now, it is not so and I do not see what kind of fear it would be and who is afraid of this Parliament, who is the governor, who is a member of the council who finds it difficult to account for us, so if they have sinned like everyone else, then this Parliament cannot be the only one in charge of punishing itself, and obviously lately in this direction we are going well forward. Therefore, they are opening up and I have one very simple question, Mr. Secretary of State. Do you also believe that this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank will give the best answer to how two key things will be solved? The first is to reduce external vulnerability. Will he give an answer that our vulnerability we have can it solve? And secondly, will you strengthen capital controls as a rule or will it just be an option? Any strength that has been recruited so far in such a way that the National Bank has created more unfavourable relations with banks to continue lending citizens and the economy has been equally unsuccessful. And I'm not exactly sure that this kind of further capital control effort will lead to something that balances the relationship because it's simply not balanced in content, so we're going to have a hard time balancing it through form. Of course, the issue of our foreign reserve is the European Central Bank a place to decide on foreign reserves for Croatian citizens and Croatian economies, or is it a place here in Croatia? We do not doubt in the club HSS that no adjustment should be made and that the Croatian National Bank should not create conditions for the overall convergence and creation of those relations that all members of the European Union have. But it is also the task of a monetary factor in this country to be in a function of economic development to strengthen the need for high-quality and cheap placements and to create such relationships in which banks as financial intermediaries will unquestionably function in the same sector. Unfortunately, the fact that we are no longer in a good position and we are no longer in a position to report our economy through financial intermediaries, or banks, even more difficult positions. In an even more difficult position, as Croatian banks are owned by foreigners in 90 per cent and more. Therefore, they were sold by the government in this country, and citizens are not interested in the lists of those who sold them. She sold them the desire to better make it available to strangers, and I'll speak for HSS, he was never for it. In this House he spoke equally when he was in the coalition government, in this Parliament he speaks equally today, in this Parliament he will speak equally tomorrow. Therefore, the citizens do not care who did what wrong, but the citizens want to know if we are ready to do better today. And if we are willing to do better, then we will not accept this bill and we will finally start all of us saying this, the Croatian commercial bank as a support for the development of the Croatian economy, but also for the support of our citizens. Supporting our citizens, because that way we can recruit and return the share of independence that has escaped from us. Therefore, this responsibility always lies in power, but it always rests on opposition, no matter who the government is, who the opposition is. Therefore, on behalf of the HSS Club, I would like to invite all of us to consider this final proposal to amend and supplement the National Bank Act, to leave time to go through this again and get what we have last said, and it must be amended in these several articles because they are not in the interest of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78476	Thank you. We have two corrections. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague of Markov's said that with a whole series of elements we'd disbanded in advance. It's not at all, it's really not true. I will just remind myself that in April 2001, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Croatian National Bank, which regulated monetary policy in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the standards of developed countries and in particular the European Union. Two major changes introduced by the new law were giving full independence and independence to the Croatian National Bank. And now this law continues to work, and most of the amendments and additions to these legal provisions concern the integration of the Croatian National Bank into the European System of Central Banks, and that is when the conditions are met, and that means when Croatia is a member of the European Union. Therefore, we also accept the Protocol on the Statute of European Central Banks, and if this is Croatia's commitment to enter the European Union, then we must accept these facts as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78478	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Markov said the HSS was against the sale of banks, so I have to correct you. That's not exactly a quote. Why? Because the banks sold out, sold out and sold out the former coalition government in which the HSS participated. And when you talk about HSS, I will remind you only that one, true today, former HSS official Marinko Filipovic as director of the DAB sold out in a shameful way, Dubrovnik Bank. The truth is he is a former HSS official today, but he was in the Croatian peasant party at the time. So your quote wasn't exactly correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78480	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78481	209. That's not what I was talking about, but I have to answer. The HSS did not participate in the start of bank destruction and the sale of the banking sector from Dubrovnik Bank, the city bank, other banks. The HSS has not participated in any of those difficulties that have affected Croatian banking since the beginning... /The speaker has been disfellowshipped, it is not heard./... the privatisation of banks. The HSS also voted against this Parliament when the changes of the Croatian National Bank were discussed. He was consistent and...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78482	I don't know what the Rules of Procedure is hurt in here, but here's Mr. Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter So look, you allow Mr. Matusic and Mrs. Majdenic to speak as an alleged correction to the incorrect assumption of what the representative Markov on behalf of the HSS club did not speak at all. We could talk about Dubrovnik Bank and all those banks that were sold before 2000, and we'd love to have that debate at the HSS club, but please don't let fellow representatives mud those who speak on behalf of the club and who talk about the law, give them some responsibility for the Dubrovnik Bank later. Well, Mr. Matušić is from Dubrovnik, so at least he knows who he is and how he managed Dubrovnik Bank and how it ended up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78484	There was no defamation, but the claims that you deny and call for the injured Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure have been injured in 90% of cases where an incorrect assumption is corrected. Also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78485	Mr. President, Vice President. Mr. Markov and Mr. Pecek hurt Article 209 because they didn't warn about the breach of the Rules of Procedure because I didn't do it. Mr. Markov said the HSS was against selling the bank. I denied it and said it wasn't true, because their official then the HSS official sold out, or sold out the Dubrovnik Bank and these are facts, you can't run away from them and you participated in the coalition government that sold out the banks, we weren't in that coalition government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78486	Let's get out of these unnecessary tablelifts and get back to the debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78487	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments and additions to the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank are proposed on the basis of the required adjustments observed during the screening. However, in Article 36 of the Law on the prohibition of credit to the Republic of Croatia i.e. not only the lending of the Republic of Croatia but also the lending of its assets outside the budget of units of local and regional self-government and other public bodies in the Republic of Croatia under paragraph 3 of this Article shall be covered by possible State abuse. In fact, paragraph 3 of this article states that the loan will not quote: "The credit will not be considered to be the purchase of debt issued by the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian National Bank if the purchase is made on the secondary market in accordance with the monetary policy objectives of the Croatian National Bank." As an intermediary on the secondary market, a state-owned bank may also appear in the transaction and thus allow State lending in all situations which should otherwise not be credited with primary emissions. On the other hand, if in certain units of local self-government there are difficulties in carrying out its financial obligations, such as Požeško-Slavon County, the Croatian National Bank could selectively clean the portfolios of individual banks from such debtors, which opens up space to corruption at the highest levels. We are convinced that this possibility of a responsible state will not benefit and we are joining other clubs in the proposal that this legislative proposal goes into the third reading and that until the third reading of all these remarks mentioned here today to be incorporated into the final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78488	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78489	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The Croatian Party of Rights Club, in accordance with its political responsibility and protection policy of Croatian national interests, will neither be able to support the final proposal of this law for a number of reasons. First, the entire text of the final bill was drawn up in the Croatian National Bank itself, while the Ministry of Finance had only a postman's role here. Second, the entire starting point and the proposed amendments to the law on the Croatian National Bank consist of full identification and identification of the role and functions of the entire CNB as the Central Bank with its own objectives and interests and forgetting the interests and objectives of Croatian citizens. The proposal to amend the CNB Act focuses solely on solutions which, indefinitely, wish to immobilise a high level of authority for the Governor and Vice-Governmentary of the Croatian National Bank while, at the same time, as tasks of the CNB, they are aware of all the essential provisions which assume the carrying of personal responsibilities in fulfilling its role as the Central Bank in the country's overall policy and which is relevant to all central banks in the world and incorporated into the regulation on their business and objectives. The proposal for amendments to the CNB Act is literally made to the extent of the private interests of several influential people in the Croatian National Bank as well as the power centres in the Republic of Croatia and abroad which have brought them to their current functions while at the same time giving up any right to see the business of the Croatian National Bank and no one else in Croatia is allowed to do so. I will only briefly remind you of the devastating results and consequences of the business of the Croatian National Bank in the past 6 years means in the period of the end of 2006. The losses achieved in business during this period, according to the revised data for the mandate, means the current and former leadership totals 1.1 billion kuna or 150m euros, which is the highest negative financial result of all Croatian state institutions. Losses in business in the foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia which are entrusted to the management of the Croatian National Bank. The collapse of the Rijeka River Bank at the loss of cca. 87m euros from which the Croatian National Bank sought to fence even though it was the only one who cared under the law... business has the power to oversee and control banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Giving illegal consent to fictitious sales, false privatisation of the largest Croatian bank "Zagrebačka banka" which, through manipulation of the Croatian public through its media and fraud of shareholders of Zagreb banka Zagreb overnight from the state bank, became a private bank although to this day, no one and no one in the Republic of Croatia has ever paid a single kuna or euro to the Croatian state budget, thus making more serious crimes by the leadership of the bank as well as the Croatian National Bank itself. The Croatian National Bank has granted a permit and a solution to fictitious privatisation and a fake sale of "Zagrebačka Banka" which is now market-rated at over 2.5 billion euros, which is the amount de facto the Republic of Croatia lost by a transaction called fictitious privatisation. So, the incorrect formation of the so-called. the core capital of the CNB as an institution of €2.5 billion from nothing since no one in the Republic of Croatia or outside the Republic of Croatia has paid any capital in the Croatian People's Bank but has so-called ‘the Croatian National Bank’. accounting chemistry which, according to the Accounting Act, has the mark of criminality by arbitrary decision of the leadership of the Croatian National Bank through the so-called so-called “Nature Bank”. exchange rate differences without any legal basis declared by capital. Bad conduct of the country's credit monetary policy, which is exclusively in the function of importing interest lobbys and de facto, promotes the continued growth of the Republic of Croatia's foreign debt. The current leadership of the Croatian National Bank has been making a declaration of high foreign debt even though all the measures taken and taken by the Croatian National Bank for the purpose of halting foreign debt growth. Not only has foreign debt not slowed down but foreign debt has been growing uncontrollably and constantly, making the Republic of Croatia the most in charge of the country of all transition countries. The measures of the Croatian National Bank in the area of foreign debt suspension were and are now too late, they are wrong and they are so counterproductive and it is logical not to give the expected result. For the sake of the country's high debt, which crosses around 90% of GDP, the Republic of Croatia is in the position of economic lagging, growing poverty and with the perspective of increasingly difficult survival even in the context of women's entry into the European Union. The change in credit-monetary policy would give the CNB both to the central bank and to the Croatian... Much more chance than risk since such a situation is unsustainable for a long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The CNB as an institution has no reputation for solving any problems present in the country's economic life but has voluntarily established and built a mechanism for imposing its own attitudes as an axiom, especially with regard to resolving the country's fiscal problems, which all in the Republic of Croatia should follow unspeakably. The current proposal means the final draft law lays down provisions that the sole objective of the Croatian National Bank is to achieve and maintain price stability while, for example, economic growth and development, unemployment, the promotion of economic conukture and the maintenance of liquidity in payments abroad are completely outside the Croatian National Bank i.e. The Croatian National Bank thus becomes a regulatory institution which is its own purpose and which is not the case with central banks in particular, so-called transition countries to which the Republic of Croatia belongs. If, for example, the Croatian National Bank is no longer responsible for maintaining liquidity in payments to abroad, is it not opportunised to ask the question of the purpose of keeping and managing the foreign reserves of the Republic of Croatia by, for example, the Croatian National Bank which, through the current Foreign Exchange Act, are defined to serve exactly to maintain liquidity in payments to abroad. The holding and management of the Croatian National Bank's foreign reserves management of the Croatian National Bank will of course not be denied because the revenues at the placement of these are now more than 90% of the total revenues made by the Croatian National Bank as institutions such as the leadership gives up responsibilities for maintaining liquidity in payment to abroad and for which, in fact, these same foreign reserves are only served. Similarly, the question is raised why the CNB as a central bank, which is the only one responsible for the functioning of the Croatian banking system, has never proposed, for example, the Law on the privatisation of banks, thus allowing the open way to de facto uncontrollable privatisation of the same. something has turned into nothing, which is due to the fact that the Republic of Croatia no longer has almost one of its own banks today. As a reason for those views in the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the CNB Act, it is also stated in the Republic of Croatia that it is already a common postmaker that the proposed provisions of the CNB Act of the Republic of Croatia are, of course, legally approaching the regulatory solutions applicable within the countries of the European Union and cannot be combated. Since it is such a confidential inaccuracy and a conscious introduction into the delusion of representatives of the Croatian Parliament as well as the largest Croatian public, it is easy to establish insight into the applicable laws on central banks, such as Germany, Switzerland, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Hungary etc. which all such provisions do not know. Since the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank is in many of its provisions below the professional criteria of the banking profession in that spirit, it is not defined, for example, who can be governor or vice governor, with what professional competence, working experience and with what banking biography the person concerned must have. At the same time, the CNB through the Banks Act accurately prescribes who may be the managing person or member of the management of a commercial bank, whom and with whose consent it appoints after verifying the expertise of the previous professional experience and for them there is nothing. So far, bad experience with the leading HNB staff, especially vice governors and their unquestionable responsibility for numerous scandals and illegal actions in the banking sector, which are through various recoverys and the taxpayers' stands, imposes extreme caution and great responsibility in choosing leadership and responsibility of this Croatian Parliament, whether we will allow what is proposed to have no more influence or any influence on the leadership of the Croatian National Bank and on what the Croatian National Bank will do on behalf of someone else's other lobbys, that it will take away the future of the Croatian people and all Croatian citizens living in these areas. Therefore, we propose a third reading and that these things no longer happen in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78490	Thank you. Correction by Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78491	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr Kovacevic said that these amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian National Bank are tailored according to the measures and interests of a few in the Croatian People's Bank and the interest lobbies. In fact, this claim is incorrect and Europhobic. Namely, the Law on the Croatian National Bank was dated 2001, it was written using the resolutions of the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks. This existing law is largely in line with the legal gains of the European Union. Only a few legal provisions containing small non-compliance with the protocol have been identified and are now changing these amendments and amendments to the law or harmonising it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78492	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this matter. Next, Mrs. Ivana Judge-Thrakostane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78493	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'm going to make a very brief contribution by supporting, of course, this law, a debate that moves between two extremes, so between the fact that we're totally losing sovereignty or the one that says we're keeping it completely. It is therefore always in the middle, and it is in fact an anticipating one future period, and it says what will happen when a certain condition is met and the basic condition is that Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. Since we are fully aware of the globalisation processes, we cannot avoid them, then it is certainly better to be an active participant in them. And I would start then from Article 64 which says that the Governor of the Croatian National Bank is a member of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank and that is what gives me the right to hope that, therefore, by active participation in these processes, Croatia will have its place. If anything else, then at least foreign-owned banks and businesses in the Croatian market will have those rules, so those interest rates for Croatian citizens that they have for other European countries as well, so that is one of the positive signs that I see. So, I support the independence of the Croatian National Bank from policy of any kind, and this is supported by indicators that say that so far the Croatian National Bank has knowingly and professionally contributed to the overall economic development and stability of the Croatian and kuna and gross social product, so I will only list some indicators that speak for it. So, since '94. The year to this day has varied only within 6% plus minus and in 2005 the kuna has since '98. had a minimum exchange rate of 7.4 kuna for 1 euro, and '98. It was 7.1. All these other years he was far above what he would say about raising competitiveness within the Croatian state. I know that exporters sometimes have difficulties with a low rate, but since, of course, those on the external markets are close to and productivity of European countries and all other indicators, then it is a minor problem for them if we still include certain incentive measures to encourage exports which are back in the last 2 years through the Ministry of Economy and other economics, so to speak, opportunities of days. The Croatian National Bank, therefore, will continue as it has so far taken care of price stability and inflation, which has been working on occasional market interventions and business controls and a state that will no longer be able to approve of the duties. So it's going to happen with other instruments. I will, therefore, just say that I expect the Croatian National Bank, with the control of the Parliament, to say conditionally by considering these reports, and also by its very transparent behaviour, therefore, on their websites all the procedures are visible so that the part, so to speak, of sovereignty relating to its constitutional function and to the laws of a different scale, is therefore to develop the Croatian economy and maintain a stable Croatian financial market. So, in that sense, I don't see too much danger from the future delegation of certain functions that will have to happen inevitably. So, by joining any Union, each state, it is also known in theory and practice happens, therefore, introduces, delegates a certain part of its powers, which means by itself it loses its sovereignty. Therefore, there are also models where some countries that are members of the European Union are not members of the European Monetary Union. So if we have, therefore, the experience of Great Britain, Denmark and Sweden that entered the European Union and did not immediately introduce the euro, so we can when we are a member, and I hope that in some of the deadlines that have been here for two, three years we will be. So we will only decide in this Croatian Assembly which part of sovereignty will be left directly or not. So, on the basis of that, I see also the advantages of this participation, therefore, in the European banks' association and in the European Central Bank. And of course, with due control, I repeat, I hope that we will not lose the pace of economic development, the reduction of government debt and the increase in gross social product that is the highest so far. In 2005, it is 6 thousand 968 euros per capita, and also if we look at GDP in millions of kunas it keeps growing. So he reached 222,000 kuna in 2005, which is the share of both the National Bank and the National Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78494	Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State, Mr. Zigman. It's final.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank the MPs for the debate, and here, I would like to finally answer a few questions and direct questions. I'm sorry the counsel isn't here, but I hope my answers are passed on to them. And in that sense, therefore, first of all Mr. Markov has asked two questions that are very important. For example, whether the change of this Law will affect the reduction of extreme vulnerability. Sure. Surely, at the moment Croatia enters the European system of central banks and introduces the euro that the euro will no longer be part of our external debt. No more extreme vulnerabilities, no more vulnerabilities than to increase your rate, so your debt payments rise 10%. It's not there. There is no situation, therefore, in which an entrepreneur must pay off his debt in that sense think about whether or not the course will be depreciated. There isn't. So all these risks are avoided. It's gone. In this Law, the Croatian Parliament allows Croatian entrepreneurs to do so. So that allows them here. And certainly no one who does business will think about whether such a thing will help him in his business or not. As far as Croatian citizens are concerned, they have already decided very clearly. The population of 70 billion kuna savings, 70 billion kuna saves 53 billion in euro. So 70 billion 53 billion is held in euro. So what more is there to say about what the citizens voted for? So in that sense, I think this law best fits both the outlines and the state of the economy and the state of affairs, the mood of the population. As regards capital controls, capital controls will no longer be necessary at that time, and until then the Croatian National Bank, as well as the Parliament, has the possibility to suspend all capital transactions for 6 months abroad. That possibility exists under current laws. As for reservations, again, Croatian citizens will decide with the referendum on this law because this law will not apply until the Croatian citizens agree, while the Parliament will not ratify the accession treaty. Until then, there is no, therefore, application of Chapter VIII and Chapter IX which speak in these parts of which representatives spoke during the debate. Regarding the third reading, there is no reason for the Law to go into third reading and the government does not support third reading for the next reason. Because all the positions mentioned here in the debate have been proposed, I repeat, for the third time, and for the fourth time, accepted on the National Committee, which contains the National Committee for Accession of the European Union, with the honourable representatives of the Assembly. As for the statement that the text was made only in the Croatian People's Bank, that is not true. The working group of the Croatian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance worked on this. It was the Ministry of Finance that sent the text to the government, and in this sense, it is not possible to claim that only the Law in the Croatian People's Bank was made. As for the centre of power abroad that supports such a law, gentlemen, the centres of power abroad are rebelling against the currently high restrictive measures implemented by the Croatian National Bank in order to curb the growth of external debt. So they're against it all the time and they're waking up against a high regulatory burden. So look at the statements following the meeting of the Croatian Banking Association on Monday. Well, exactly the opposite of what's being said here. Therefore, this Law allows the Croatian National Bank to continue its practice so far to ensure monetary, financial, fiscal, together with the Government and, therefore, the Ministry of Finance, and ultimately, macroeconomic stability in low inflation and to enable environments that will allow Croatian entrepreneurs to prepare for entry into the European Union. As regards, therefore, other incentive measures, we now have in the debate a series of laws, the Law on Small Entrepreneurship and other laws which are the way and the space and passage through which certain sectors should be encouraged before entering the European Union, or at the time of entry into the European Union to be competitive on the European market. So, in this case, I think that this law, in each case, has no basis for going into third reading, and the government doesn't support it and I suggest that it be adopted in this second reading and I thank you for the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78496	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78497	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State said no external vulnerabilities. He's got it today. She may not be there tomorrow, but she definitely has it today. Capital controls are necessary today, of course when we enter the European Union then there will be no need for them, but a more crucial observation that this House has lost its authority over the Croatian National Bank has not been denied anything. This House has lost its ability to resolve in the event of a bad business either governor or members. This House has lost its ability to confirm the statutes, this House has lost those preferences it had and which belong to it under the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78498	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78499	Thank you very much. So I am correcting the assumption that this Law is actually best suited to the Croatian economy. For what? We know how much the Croatian economy is dependent on external debt and final and internal debt, and we know that Croatian banks control over 95% of the Croatian market so that it is likely that one law that better regulates this situation of special external and internal responsibilities in the period until the entry into the European Union, not only for businesses but for citizens, would be more acceptable, and it is not acceptable for the Parliament to even be able to discuss better, or to make decisions on the implementation of economic policy in Croatia. By this law we actually took it away from Parliament, he will be able to listen to what the Croatian National Bank is saying, but he will not be able to do anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78500	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78501	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian National Bank. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Unanimously with 79 votes in favour, a final bill was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78502	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Leasing Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 539 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, ladies and gentlemen, here are the final proposals of the Leasing Act, which I would not actually enter into the previous debate, but I would like to say, therefore, that Leasing is one of the most flexible parts of the financial market. So banks as such are only one part of the financial market, and leasing if we look at just five years back at the end of 2001 the total assets of leasing companies amounted to 3.2 billion kuna. In the middle of this year, it climbed to 22 billion kuna. So this is definitely the sector that has grown in the last 5 years seven times has increased. It grew threefold faster than the financial sector at all, and the area that was not actually adequately regulated or controlled or controlled. So, this Law in this second reading after we heard all your comments, so we wanted to further and respect, of course, additionally try and regulate the important segment of the market in a certain way. So I'm cleaning up a brief review. Therefore, the Leasing activity is carried out by about 50 companies and what is important to say is that 20 of them deal exclusively with this activity. So today we can identify Leasing companies according to the registration activity in the court register and company company. What leasing represents is a simple form of financing and as such has a positive impact on the economy, but it is unacceptable, for example, to conduct lending through leasing. It's that several, or actually one institution, one leasing society actually makes them 88% of the lending that is done through leasing which is actually inadmissible. Crediting as we know must go through banks and, of course, that legal vacuum has just ensured that certain Leasing societies are dealing with this business and, of course, by this Law we want to regulate and correct this injustice. As far as foreign debt is concerned, they were therefore the ones who were directly in charge outside and were not controlled by either the Central Bank or the HANFA. This Law therefore enables HANFA, the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency, to enable and give the authority of supervision and measures necessary to limit the growth of leasing activity and, of course, what is most important foreign borrowing to reduce the external vulnerability mentioned just now. And of course, and what is important is the model of linear consolidation at the level of banks within the same banking group because we are all aware that most banks are therefore the owner of leasing society, of course individual and independent, but most of them are in a certain way owned by banks. In any case, we distinguish between two types of leasing business. These are operational and financial leasing and, in this sense, we would like to say that only Leasing companies can carry out operational lying while financial leasing could also be carried out by banks, of course fully respecting the provisions of this proposed Law. In any case, we would like to make it impossible for Leasing, Leasing to companies to pass on their assets to their founders abroad as well as, of course, bypassing the pay of the profit tax as well as making it impossible to carry out bank transactions as I said earlier, so approval of loans and loans. In any case, the aim of this Act is to regulate the rules on the conduct of Leasing activities, reporting and supervision by the Croatian Financial Institutions' Supervisory Agency, to prevent the granting of loans and loans which will result in a reduction of material goods which do not serve to achieve new values for the purpose of easing, as well as the financing of passenger cars to natural persons, which is of course not the work of leasing, that is, the business of banks, and Leasing, therefore, that part of its activity should focus on machines, on investments, on what therefore enables the production of a particular company, of course in that part and the purchase of cars. The final proposal for the Law was amended in several articles following the first reading, so a more clear definition of the dealings of leasing, operational and financial is laid down in Article 5 of the Leasing Treaty, Article 35 and, of course, certain nomotechnical harmonisations that were present at, during the first reading, highlighted during the first reading. We have fully installed them in this final bill of woodworking. Therefore, I suggest that the MPs accept this Law in a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78504	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? Mr. Dragutin Pukleš, chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78505	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the proposer, the honourable MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 48th session held on 24 November 2006 discussed the proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on Leasing, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 10 November 2006. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the final draft law... the property of an interested working body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The opening statement was submitted by the proposing representative, noting that the Leasing companies are mostly owned by foreigners. In order to reduce the risk of non-payment of the liabilities, HBO may require a foreign lease company to deposit a cash amount as a guarantee for the settlement of the obligation to cover possible losses. It has also been pointed out that the Croatian National Bank has limited the lending, i.e. that, due to the above mentioned situation in the Republic of Croatia, Croatia has developed a third type of leasing which is a purely credit to the users of the object of leasing. Such loans are represented by almost 30% of the portfolio of the total lending companies that the legal proposal aims to limit. The following debate welcomed the adoption of this law in two readings. The question of justification and compensation for keeping the register of Leasing facilities has also been raised, and the question of the justification for granting the right to HAMAG is also raised on the basis of which HAMAG may reject the findings of an authorised auditor. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Leasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78506	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want it? Oh, no? We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78507	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are all witnessing an action that is being carried out in our legal system, which is actually moving from our legal system to a large number of laws that are no longer applicable, that have lasted, that simply exist in the legal system formally but do not live. Now I'm saying this because what I'm saying is that passing this law is completely the opposite. It's the opposite because we're the Leasing Institute in our business world, in our economy, in our economy, de facto we already have in life. However, we do not have regulation as proposed by this law. And that is why this is the reverse process and the adoption of this law is necessary because it is something that we do not have in the legal system, and it is really necessary. All that the Secretary of State has said about how much money is being turned on our financial market and placed within the framework, within the framework of the Leasing, speaks for itself and says in fact that the need for this law to be passed is really great. We also when we passed the Law on Mandatory Relations, if we remember, pointed out as something that was necessary to define the institute of the Leasing Treaty in the very Law on Mandatory Relations. However, the Leasing Treaty is regulated today and until before the adoption of this law in a way that is applicable to existing institutes known to the legal system. It's actually one combination of an existing lease contract, an existing lease contract, an existing buy-out contract, a buy-in contract related to a payment-out, and these are institutions that apply, they're institutes used to regulate the Leasing Institute. The adoption of this Law in Article 5 is specified, in Article 5, what are the tasks of leasing? It clearly separates the business of financial leasing and the business of operational leasing. In Articles 35, it is further defined that the Leasing Treaty should regulate everything? Its basic provisions are defined, so it is said that it must contain both the company and the location of the Leasing, the company and the recipient’s headquarters, the determination of the job, the detailed determination of the Leasing facility, the value of the facility, and that I am not counting further in it is very precise as to what all the Leasing contract should have? It also defines what specific provisions are needed for the financial lease agreement and which are necessary for the operational one? What are the fundamental differences between financial and operational leasing? The State Secretary has already said in his opening statement some, but what is important about financial lying is that we have a situation where one who enters as a recipient of financial leasing has the opportunity to actually acquire ownership of the object or the subject of that lying. While in this operational leasing it's not like that, it's different. This Law is what I would say as the most important one regulates status issues related to entities that will deal with and deal with Leasing. So it's, it's companies, it's limited liability companies, it's stock companies, it's financial institutions, it's foreign companies. Foreign houses which are also engaged here, through their representative offices or branches, carry out these tasks, and this Law regulates the conditions under which these companies are able to carry out Leasing operations. A large and huge role is played by our HANFA Agency, which will also have to give prior approvals to the establishment of such companies but not only, to which these companies will have to submit numerous reports related to their operations, related to their work, so that a very, very precise record of the state and business of these companies will indeed be kept within that agency. Not only that, but the agency will also conduct a registrar's register, which is also very important because there will be one significant review and that agency after having all this information it will have the opportunity and intervene in certain situations when certain illegalities occur. Also, the law gives high authority to the agency in that supervisory area and it is said that it can make a solution that requires them to be removed, to correct certain shortcomings. It must, of course, be delivered to her, all related to the business of these Leasing houses of ours. If we look even at the establishment itself, it means entities that will be involved in Leasing and in the management of limited liability companies or companies there is a role of our HANFA that will also have to give approval even if certain people have the conditions to be members of the management of these companies. Also, there are certain legal reasons when HANFA can deny it, so when it can intervene because conditions have changed, these people can no longer do these jobs. In this law, in a rather precise and good way, the entities themselves are regulated in the business relationship of leasing. It's a leasing provider, it's a leasing recipient and it's a leasing object supplier. So this law regulates their obligations, their rights, and their responsibility. That's what's very important. That's what we don't have in our legislation today. This law of course regulates as a lex specialis all these questions. However, it clearly states in its statement that, as a subsidiary and subordinate, what is not regulated by this law to apply the provisions of the Company Act, the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the provisions of the Law on Audit, the provisions of the Accounting Act, the Consumer Protection Act. So, a whole series of laws is connected to this Leasing Act and should be observed in the context of actually this entire legal system. I think it's very important to this law which is a very precise supervision that our HANFA conducts over the operations of these leasing houses. That's something that so far has been stated by the State Secretary in his opening statement. In one mess of legal regulations, things could have happened. It could actually be a covert lending, could be done by various legal transactions if something wasn't completely clear. This law makes things much clearer and allows this law to be closely monitored for the Leasing segment. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this law, and I particularly think it is important that in this space between the first and second readings that the numerous objections that were made on the Legislative Committee are respected, so that the law is significantly better than it was in the first reading. So we support the law because the law is simply necessary in the functioning of our financial system, in the functioning of our economic and economic system because we do not have these issues regulated and we have to pass the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78508	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78509	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting two incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Bosnjakovic. The first refers to the role of HANFA as some guaranteeer to come, to prevent law enforcement. We know what the role of HANFA was in the case of Covic. They didn't do anything so it didn't mean much. Secondly, the correction of the second quotation refers to that. It's true that here the de facto state in the law of colleagues is turned de jure, into de jure state. But we were all looking for what had to be done. So it's not good. It's a correction. The Leasing Treaty is not enough for the Leasing. Outside is a leasing defined and elaborated as a complete legal institute and Croatia has not done so and it is a big mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78510	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Ms. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78511	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The liberalisation of the Croatian economy in our market has led to some of the recently less-known and used forms of funding. One of these forms of financing developed market economies certainly also represents leasing. In the United States, in the European Union, the presence of this leasing in the markets has already been known for 40 years. Leasing is a business relationship in which the lender gives the object of leasing, for example, in our cases most often vehicles appear as a object of leasing to use for a specified time the recipient of leasing. The consignee shall undertake to pay the agreed amount in the agreed meals. Leasing is a special form of financing which is the basic feature used rather than being the owner. Depending on the agreed provisions, it may have the mark of the lease, but it may also have the characteristics of the purchase, so it is precisely the difference between what the Secretary of State pointed out this morning, now just before we can distinguish operational and financial lying. The advantages of leasing are many, ranging from a dedicated time-limit, a reduction in tax obligations, to a clear annual financial account. In the Republic of Croatia, however, leasing has often been abused. In fact, there was a long-standing practice that business banks, through Leasing companies, are in charge abroad and thus only increase the external debt of Croatia. This should certainly put an end to, or legally regulate, the area of leasing. I must admit that the adoption of this law is quite late for real needs. In fact, it has been in modern business as I have said for 40 years, and in Croatia it appears somewhere in the second half of the 1990s. Since 2001, Croatia's leasing market has seen strong and dynamic growth, and funding through leasing becomes the most significant alternative to bank credit. Although the number of companies registered to provide Leasing services is much higher, the Bank Act allows banks to provide financial Leasing services in Croatia as a basic activity about 17 companies. According to data from the end of 2005, leasing society participates in the structure of the Croatian financial market's total assets with 6.3%, placing them second. So, right behind the banks. The property of leasing companies is now more than 20 billion kuna, and it is a financial branch that has extremely rapid growth. Right now he's just over 15% a year. So, with the adoption of this law, it has indeed waited too long, and if we were not in the process of a hasty harmonisation of legislation with the European Union and meeting other similar requirements on this law, we would probably wait even longer. On the other hand, I must welcome the decision that this law is passed in a regular manner rather than an emergency procedure. In fact, we have made it possible to regulate this area better, with the possibility of making the necessary amendments, and on the other hand to put the final draft under discussion immediately at the next session will help to regulate this area as soon as possible and legally. Since around 30% of Leasing portfolios are loans and loans that should not be in the Leasing business domain, I certainly welcome the provisions of this law that make it impossible for Leasing companies to approve these very loans. These provisions actually go in line with all measures of the Croatian National Bank, or monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia, which seek to reduce the country's external debt. On the other hand, I have to note that most of the matter of this law does not actually refer to the question of leasing itself as legal work, but rather to the issues of leasing societies, their way of dealing with each other, supervision, etc. For this reason, I also welcome the suggestions put forward in the first reading that the law should be renamed to the Law on Leasing Society and Leasing. I also have to admit that in some aspects of this, this draft law is too liberal for powerful financial industries, i.e. it does not stand on the side of consumer protection, in this case the user of leacing services. In any case, it does not stand on the side of a Croatian citizen. Leasing itself is a very favourable means of charging the same service. Leasing companies have provided their stakes several times for the simple reason that these are the same companies and owners of the objects of leasing. Until the last kuna for the payment of the case was paid. On the other hand, an ordinary citizen is not protected at all. The Leasing provider has the right to collect damages from a failed job, i.e. to return the object of the Leasing if it is too late to pay for only two wars. On the other hand, this same lender is not even responsible for the object of leasing. This is how this law will function as a protection for the already powerful financial industry, rather than being a protection function for the Croatian citizen, or Croatian economy. And the last thing to draw attention to is the fact that this law in Article 33 provides for the obligation of foreign lease companies, i.e. companies from non-member countries of the European Union, to request the consent of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency prior to the establishment of its branch. Although Leasing companies from the Member States of the European Union must provide the Agency with reports on their work, consent to the establishment of the Agency is not required. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in Article 49(2) that the state provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market, and that the abuse of a monopoly position is prohibited by law. Although this same Constitution in Article 50 points out how entrepreneurship and market freedom can be limited in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, I do not see how we can know in advance that foreign Leasing societies will go against state interests and that the Leasing societies of the Member States of the European Union will not go. This is actually about constitutional and legal inequality, which is certainly against the law. There is also another extraordinary nonsense in this law. In this regard, Article 3 provides that a legal person established in the Republic of Croatia who has received from the Agency an authorisation to carry out the work is a legal person established in the Republic of Croatia. So leasing society is a legal person. In order for a company to become a legal person, it must first register. And here's the law here says it can't be registered until it gets the Agency's consent. And in order to gain the consent of the Agency, he must be a legal person. I am surprised and disappointed this is the obvious contradiction of Article 3 is not resolved until this reading but will certainly have to be resolved very quickly. In fact, this reminds me of whether it's a chicken or an egg before. Well, given that we often get laws in our bench that have this dilemma inside of us, I don't think we need as many lawyers as paleontologists to determine the difference between whether there was an egg first and then a chicken, because obviously the legal profession is often wrong and often in laws we have such situations. By passing this law, we can certainly say that the second stage of the development of leasing in Croatia begins. The rules are finally on paper. Leasing companies will no longer grant loans in the future. Business will be controlled, companies will have to manage risks, penalties for violations are prescribed. But the paper puts up with everything. The quality of supervision must be carried out in order to ensure future financial stability, i.e. after this law has been adopted and implemented. This is certainly not in the Parliament but in the executive power, but I warn you here and now because the past has shown that it was never a problem for the Parliament to pass a quality law, but it was a very difficult issue for the Croatian government to carry it out consistently and to the end. Until these little things I referred to are changed, the Croatian People's Party will not support this law in its debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78512	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club welcomes the fact that we have before us a proposal of the Leasing Act for the simple reason that it is unquestionable that with its 20 billion kuna, the work of leasing in Croatia makes one large part of the financial market, especially the non-banking market, and the fact itself makes us think that it is good that these relations are resolved within the legal solutions and we think that it is also in the interests of the donor, but also the user of the Leasing. Of course, in Croatia, the very beginnings of leasing are in some way manifested by the purchase of cars and this championship for the reason that some of the required guarantees could not be realised in order to provide in some other way financial resources and financing. Of course, such a situation that has definitely recruited the largest number of Leasings at least by citizens has remained in some way dominant in the structure of these Leasings and, of course, that such a position of Leasing providers in the very beginning has created a rather unadjustable relationship between the donor and the Leasing user and that, by comparing our users, it means our citizens and also legal persons in relation to the citizens of the European Union in a way that and under the conditions under which this Leasing is given, we are still disproportionate in quality in favour of the Leasing Giver. And I think that in terms of consumer protection as one of the very important acts that the European Union almost rules in every law as a way of acting that this bill should have a particular part relating to consumer protection. This protection of consumers is very important because, of course, this story is related to our citizens who have bought real estate through Leasing, mobility or cars, or any other means, can be almost identically transferred when it comes to the start of the Leasing in Croatia and to the economic sector which is unable to have other sources of funding set up for such forms of funding, regardless of what may be the ones in the overall content and were not the most qualitative. Therefore, we think it would be very good if this proposal for a law which has really respected the few moments proposed and by the way to say the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, by those who are holders of Leasing in Croatia respected some arguments. Unfortunately, however, there is this argument in terms of consumer protection as a primary public moment, I think it would be good for the public interest to be respected and that, or that the HANFA supervisory body that will act as a supervisory institution in some way try to reconcile the wishes of the donor and the needs of the liening user. We also hold that it is good that in some way the dilemma is resolved whether the Croatian National Bank, whether it is really important to strengthen the role, position and material position but also one educational position of HANFA, because when you get so many jobs, and the tasks of Leasing and operational and financial are doing the second in strength and right behind the banking sector, then the financial position of Leasing is really about very extensive, very large procedures that will change relations in many ways within the current HANFA. Because the current HANFA just isn't ready for it right now. And I think there will be some other, other means of funding that will have to find its place either in this or in some other law such as the issue of shering. Thus, the time-use almost accepted in the European Union is not only in specific sectors where it has evolved from tourism but has spread to production capacities, service activities, etc. Unfortunately, in Croatia, this form of financing or we can't call it buying because it's not in nature because it's about time use. So, a certain period of time you have the right to use certain resources and to pay a certain rent but to settle certain costs, and ultimately it's not your property after the deadline. So there are some touching moments with forms of this kind of funding. But otherwise, in Croatia, in practice today there are various forms also within the framework of the Leasing which, of course, rely on loans and are not loans. Therefore, HANFA has one really very difficult, very responsible job in which it will need a lot of knowledge and I think that the Croatian National Bank will still have to deal with those exposures that we have talked about and acted more directly and that it will need to find some of the contacts between the Croatian National Bank and HANFA. Because such a big deal, and it should be noted in particular that the trend of growth in leasing is simply such that in the coming year, it will quickly take an even more significant place in excess of billions of kuna, but also in relation to acquired market positions. You know, leasing is good. However, he will never be able to answer and will never be able to cover up one fact until the end. The fact that you are allowed to buy something that you do not have enough money to cover up the fact today if you do not create and produce new values, that you will also successfully solve your problems. So today, there are many witnesses who have lost funds through leasing, who have lost the war they have paid for failing to meet the contracts they were supposed to honor, and as a result of financial inability, they have failed. So there's a whole series of our citizens who went through this way of funding infamously and poorly. So this is just one of the forms of consumption that creates just the impression that it's easy to come up with something. And unfortunately, that other side of the medal is far more difficult and therefore consumer control and protection for us at the HSS Club is primary. So, the protection of our citizens to at least enjoy the same positions as the clients of foreign Leasing companies that are working in Croatia today. I think that such a thing can and must be expected from all Leasing houses that operate and work in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78514	Thank you. We'll interrupt the session. Resume at 15.00 hours. The first is Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78515	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to discuss the final proposal of the Leasing Act. Dear colleague Majdenic is first in line. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. According to data from the end of 2005 on the level of the assets of leasing companies and the dominant participation of these companies in the non-banking sector of the Croatian financial market in leasing society, leasing activity inevitably deserves serious and well-organised legislation. This is also necessary because there are laws governing the activities of insurance companies and investment funds, and there is no specific law for the Leasing activity although it represents 6% of the financial market. In a situation where the Croatian National Bank restricted foreign sources of credit funds through different monetary policy measures, credit allocations have started by leasing companies because they were not influenced by monetary policy instruments. It is precisely because this significant financial sector would be placed under control and regulated legally by the frameworks and operating conditions of the Leasing Society that the Leasing Act should be adopted. The proposal of the Leasing Act, which we are discussing today in the second reading, aims primarily to fully regulate the conditions and manner of business, supervision and control of business, measures to prevent and eliminate illegality and irregularities in business, and very strict sanctions for non-compliance and non-compliance with the prescribed legal provisions. As I have already mentioned, in the past year, as many as 30% of their activities have been used for lending, thus avoiding monetary policy measures, i.e. they found a hole through which foreign credit funds entered without the deposit of the mandatory border reserve prescribed by the Croatian National Bank. The new law explicitly prohibits the approval of loans, loans and loans. The law also provides for a minimum level of capital of one million kuna for the identification of the owner of the company, i.e. shares must be reported on behalf and must be fully paid in cash. The Croatian Financial Investment Supervisory Agency has been given great powers to exercise supervision over the operation of leasing companies. The Agency's powers range from granting work approval, appointing a member of the administration, conducting an audit, a way of calculating real interest and compensation, to withdrawing the authorisation for work, opening up bankruptcy and liquidation. The law provides for the form, content and specificity of the contract, in Articles 35 to 37, depending on whether the contract is financial or operational, as well as the terms and conditions of the termination of the contract. It is also prescribed to keep regular accounts, respect for accounting financial standards and principles and the application of the Accounting Act. The Agency has been given the power to prescribe a final plan, content, manner and time limits of financial reporting in order to compare the data on the conduct of Leasing companies. For the sake of efficiency of surveillance and transparency, the measures available to the Agency, the time limits for implementing the measures and the evidence that the measures have been implemented are prescribed. In the end as well as in any good law, penalties are prescribed for those who do not comply with the law or do not fully or at the time of the prescribed provisions. As punishments are rigorous and high, I believe that the law will give the expected effect. For all of this, I suggest that the law be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78517	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It's my dear colleague Tomljenović's turn. Tomljanović, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's my presentation I'm going to start by absolutely supporting those legal solutions that, in terms of the objections and the debate we had in the first reading, both at the plenary session and at the meetings of the committees in charge. In the first place, I think of the notion of leasing or the legal definition that is now included in the final draft of the law, but also in the final draft of the law, so both financial leasing and operational leasing itself, I think that these are improvements that absolutely need to be welcomed, and I personally have been on the point that given the fact that we do not have the definition of the Leasing Treaty or in the Mandatory Relations Act, some other regulations are now special regulation we have managed to resolve and so on. Furthermore, this law should be fully supported because it actually fills the legal gap, i.e. the lack of legal regulation in a very important area and that is the question of both legal and financial and economic nature. So, on the one hand, they exist in force, i.e. they are in force, and of course the Banks Act and the Insurance Act and the Investment Funds Act were in force until this regulation we did not have provisions that would directly or in a special way regulate the Leasing itself or the Leasing Treaty. So far, the resolution of relations is either through the application of some other regulations or by the Law on Mandatory Relations in the section relating to the contract of commitments, i.e. that part of the Law on Mandatory Relations which regulates relations between entities in the conclusion of the contract as legal transactions. Furthermore, the need for the adoption of this Act is that up to today 20 active lying companies portfolios, i.e. the outstanding value of the principal in 15 largest companies, are around 2.2 billion euros, so there are also a large number of entities, but also huge financial resources. In the structure of this cash amount are therefore equally represented both operational and financial leasing, while so-called. Loans are almost 30%. As far as these credit ratings are concerned through this kind of vision, I would absolutely support what the distinguished colleague Majdenic said in his debate and in the best possible way to picture the situation as what happened at the Leasing companies that were actually directly dealing with the placement of credit funds. In this connection, it should be pointed out that foreign owners in terms of the inability to further expand business and increase business in Croatia through banks, so these funds started to be placed as loans by leasing companies. As mentioned above, the need for a special regulation to regulate not only the conditions for the establishment and operation and termination of the work of Leasing companies but also the precise regulation of the Leasing Treaty with all the rights and obligations of the parties in the Leasing business. On the other hand, it was necessary to precisely regulate the financial reporting of Leasing companies as well as supervision of business and risk management. I especially need to emphasise the importance and role of the Agency, i.e., especially the financial services supervisory bodies in Leasing operations, and I would like to highlight three things here. First, according to the provisions of this law, the Agency runs the Leasing Objects Register. On the other hand, it is mandatory or compulsory to inform the Agency of the audit company or independent auditor chosen to carry out the audit of the financial report. And I particularly think it is important to point out that exactly the Agency can prescribe criteria and methods of risk management, reserve design, conditions and method of use of reserves and of course forms, methods and deadlines for risk management. Given the role of the agency, I think that these are quality legal solutions that will "introduce" absolute order in terms of the business of leasing companies regardless of what type of leasing they are dealing with in concrete situations. And finally let me highlight a very important law head or part of the law relating to consumer protection or the protection of all those natural persons in terms of non-compliance with the terms of the Leasing Treaty themselves. Therefore, when it comes to these people, these entities do not comply with the obligations of the Leasing Houses themselves to have, in that sense, special legal protection beyond that protection which is, of course, prescribed by the general rules of mandatory law. This is specifically about the protection of consumers, or those people who have concluded specific contracts, lease agreements when they are considered to be non-compliance with a contract of commitments made by Leasing companies. In view of all of this and given the quality of this proposed law here, I absolutely support this Final Bill on Leasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78519	Thanks a lot, buddy. It's all right, dear fellow Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78520	... Here, also a few words about this final bill that came to a second reading, and that's what we all agreed on after the first reading. [[Specially enabled.]] Leasing activity with total assets of about 20 billion kuna within the financial sector is the second largest right behind the banks. And unlike all other areas there are laws on banks we have the Insurance Act, investment funds were not regulated by a specific law, and therefore it is good to have this law before us which we will be convinced and bring. It probably had to be done before, mainly because it was one of the most pro-pulsory activities that grew at an annual rate greater than 15% and as we have heard in recent years has increased its volume of business seven times. Leasing is traditionally divided into operational and financial and we all know that this way of doing business is in the fact that the user of the object or object is not and its owner. Of course, in our society as we often know how to be in another area, often we think of some alternative variations, so we also invented our own kind of leasing which in its essence turned into classical lending and that is something that this law wants to end. Therefore, in the total Leasing portfolio, clean lending took over almost 1/3 of that total portfolio. That, of course, contributed to that high and great growth that I was talking about at first. Thus, the total assets in 2005 increased by about 3.4 billion kuna or around 460m euros. And what is important, therefore, from the point of view of the total community or society, the Leasing societies could be in debt outside and neither the Croatian National Bank nor the HANFA controlled them. It's actually to be a backup valve for those parent banks that have been subject to restrictions. Through this vision, the state-level ino responsibilities increased, and what may be even more important from the outside were the easing of companies financed, the easing of companies paid interest to their parent banks abroad, thus increasing these interest gains from Croatia, so they were profiting abroad and their level of business or profiting from us in such a way as to make them a profit or profit tax in such a way as to be minimal. And here's what I want to say for the end, I think we are achieving this law's goal of legally regulating the terms and conditions of business, supervision and control of business, and measures to prevent and eliminate illegality and irregularities in business. This is why I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78521	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. On behalf of the Club of HSLS Representatives, Honored colleague Zlatko Kramarić, a five-minute debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Unfortunately, because of some obligations, I didn't arrive on that regular on behalf of the club, so this is how I'm going to address myself. I don't think we at the HSLS Club are going to discover hot water if we say that leasing actually won the world, and finally that's what the experts of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Rights who are full, believe it or not, have been preparing a multilateral international convention on international financial leasing for 40 years, and that's what was adopted if I don't cheat somewhere in May '88. years in the last century. And most Western countries in the '60s, '70s recognized the value and possibility of leasing that originally originated in the '30s in America as a new way of financing real estate and in the early '50s spread to the domain of financing mobile investment equipment. Many of the Western European Union countries have long regulated some legal questions about leasing. For example, as Europe's first country, France did it back in '66. A year. So 40 years before us. And some other countries like that. The German question of leasing is not legally resolved but by some other types of regulations, so it is mostly the districts of the Ministry of Finance. Since the first beginning of the development of the phenomenon of lising, business practice and economic science, they have confirmed its basic function, financing purchases, mobile or immovable investment equipment without engaging their own capital, paying in cash and without borrowing in a classical credit relationship. It's estimated that nearly a fifth of the total purchase of capital equipment in America was financed precisely through lising, fifths. As we can see Croatia is significantly lagging behind the theory and practice of the Western states in the regulation of the licensing and legal regulations that would regulate lising should certainly be adopted and, in this sense, the HSLS club will also give support to this bill. However, when I read the reasoning of this law, it is clear that this is only about the problem of borrowing and not about lissing as an important phenomenon of production development. The whole law is structured in our view of surveillance, we could almost say police but not developmental. The Lissing Act should primarily regulate and enable licensing and investment equipment as essential levers of industrial development, so we could say perhaps a little and brave and re-industry of Croatia. In the bill and in its explanation there is unfortunately no word on it, it is said more about lissing as a problem of borrowing what it is. We have some information and these have been some state institutions for a long time, such as the Croatian National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the HANFA as well as the professional public, have been warning of the deviant behaviour of part of the lease company because according to official data of a total of 2.2 billion euros total payments of all company leases on 31 December last year, this amounted to around 637 million euros, which account for unauthorized loans or loans. This means that certain licensing companies using freedom of the market have compromised the country's financial and monetary system by carrying out credit operations that are permitted exclusively by banks. Otherwise, the bank's loan is strictly determined by the Banks Act and under tight control is the Croatian National Bank which, in the case of the 637m euros mentioned, is knowingly avoided in our opinion. The causes and consequences of this phenomenon here will not be specifically elaborated but it is important to stress that they are not at all benign. So we at the Lissing Club want to think of it as an important developmental element, we think it's possible to achieve both certain and hopefully the legislator will accept it. So, I say we support this bill's proposal in procedure and we call on the government to make it an important addition. We would like to see models and projections that will help Croatia develop the new Lising Act and that will, above all, facilitate the acquisition of industrial machinery for our new business zones, what advantages, tax, customs, other lising brings to those who in such a way want to make machines for production and the like. Lising should certainly be encouraged as much as possible and not limited. And let me get this one that I haven't been able to give this one amendment yet... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78523	Thank you very much, colleague Kramaric. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. The word is from a colleague named Zigman, the secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78524	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Here, I'd like to admit to thank you for this fruitful debate about the Lissing Act this final draft of the law. I hope he will therefore be in the highest number by the MPs and supported. I would just briefly refer to a few short let's so say the remarks by the MPs, for example regarding the registration of the licensing companies. According to the Court, the company is a legal person in Article 3(1) with its head office in the Republic of Croatia, which is registered in a court register on the basis of the approval of the Agency for the Control of Financial Lissing Operations. The Agency, I think, is the HANFA Agency for the Control of Financial Institutions. So, it's quite clear, I think in one debate it was said that in two places it was registered. No, so it can't be entered in the court register if it doesn't get the agency's approval first. Why is that? Well, it's just like the banks. A very important segment of the financial market is wanted to be protected. We all know, therefore, that in a series of discussions it has been confirmed that the lease and the way of funding through the lease is very favourable, that it can be called at one point in one segment and the development segment because it allows therefore for the financing of other people's capital, but in that sense, the carrying out of this job must be strictly supervised and even pre-monitored by those who wish to establish such a society, so in that sense they must meet certain conditions in order, of course, for the best possible way, therefore, for the purpose of economic promotion, and therefore for the purpose of maintaining financial stability. Of course, in the end, it does not occur that due to bad business obligations fall on the burden of the State, or that certain public reactions occur in this regard. As far as the consumer protection part is concerned, I would just like to say that there is a Chapter 15 in the law, which is therefore a whole head of consumer protection. Here, through three articles, certain rights are clearly given to consumers, therefore to all those persons who are natural or legal who are users of the licensing, the possibility is given that in an appropriate way they can make an objection and can therefore ask that the rights which they have as a consumer of protection and in that sense be fully equal to the licensing of companies, so to those who give them, which we have also given in law here. Here, I would so briefly look back at the debate. I thank you, of course, for the support of MPs who have positively shown themselves about this law, and I also think it is very important that the law is brought to life as soon as possible and that indeed this important segment of the financial market and let's say one legal gap created in this financial market is filled in order to ensure the financial stability and economic prosperity of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78525	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the final proposal of the Lissing Act. We'll vote during probably tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78526	Final proposal of the Leasing Act. The amendment was submitted by representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78527	The government accepts all three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78528	The government accepts all three amendments that become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that with 79 votes for, the Leasing Act was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78529	We move to the next point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts, first reading, P.Z. No. 570 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted on this law by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the law? Yeah. Please, the word is from counterpart Kesic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Experience in developed countries of Europe suggests that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are drivers of the development of the overall economy, which, with less engagement of financial resources, deliver better financial results and record a steady increase in employment. When we talk about craftsmanship in Croatia, it represents a traditional economic activity that has become more and more pronounced in recent years and has a significant impact on overall economic development. The data of over 257 thousand craft employees, 105 thousand and 38 active craftsmen speak of a respectable figure that requires increased social care, especially because of the growing role in achieving faster employment and self-employment. Data also talk about the trend of opening production crafts. In addition to the difficulties associated with craftsmanship for many years, the same has been maintained thanks to a series of incentive measures, favourable business, development and social environments. In 2005 the Ministry continued to liberalise the conditions by reducing the price of the craft from 500 to 200 kuna and amending the rules on bound and privileged crafts. In relation to the Regulation in force, the new Regulation lays down simpler conditions for the performance of crafts and for 42 activities than a total of 140 activities for which an examination of professional training or a master's examination has been prescribed. The following activities can now be carried out by persons with adequate medium-sized expertise without having passed a master's examination. In 2005, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship also took part in the programme "One Stop Shop" or "Hurry HR" service of the Government to speed up the communication of citizens and business entities with the state administration. One of the services is also "I turn". "And crafts" is an electronic service for citizens for faster and simpler registration of crafts. The service allows you to enter the data needed to initiate the process of setting up the crafts. From the 6th month when this service was launched up to today 810 citizens have registered crafts on the Internet. In parallel with the above-mentioned activities, movements and trends in craftsmanship have been followed, which pointed to the need to amend the Law on crafts in the direction of even simpler conditions for the performance of crafts, the introduction of domestic work and secondary occupation and further improvement of the system of vocational education. The aim of the proposed amendments to this Act is to enable natural persons to carry out their activities as domestic or secondary occupations that would be limited to the predetermined amount of total income, so as to enable additional number of our citizens in particular to carry out certain activities without having to pay on these taxes for health and pension insurance, and the activities that they will be able to carry out on the basis of this will be carried out on a list to be made on the proposal of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, with the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The aim of this Act is also to lay down simpler conditions for the performance of less demanding tied crafts, so that for the crafts for which the professional training examination is prescribed, it is possible to pass the examinations on professional training and in authorised educational institutions, not only in the Chamber of Commerce. This Act lays down simpler conditions for access to the master's exam, so that as a condition for passing exams for persons with completed secondary expertise, the two-year work experience is defined. For persons with inadequate completed secondary or school training, determines three-year work experience and for persons with completed primary school of ten-year work experience. Furthermore, this Law allows for the granting of licences for the admission of students to practice in as many economic operators as possible, and proposes that, in addition to craftsmen and companies and other economic operators and legal entities, students can receive them for practice. In addition, it is specified that persons with a master’s test and three years’ experience in youth education may also participate in persons with completed adequate secondary expertise, three-year work experience and with an exam on basic knowledge of the teaching of scientists. Furthermore, this Law extends the conditions for which non-compliance with tradesmen and legal persons are withdrawn from the authorisation to conduct apprenticeships. The establishment of surveillance over the teaching segment carried out in the work process will ensure a better and safer education for young people. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts will allow a wider number of natural persons, especially pensioners, to carry out their activities by laying down simpler conditions for access to the Master's Exam, will speed up the quality of the implementation of crafting and employment development policies and by constantly upgrading the education system and by prescribing the control obligation to issue the permits for the practical part of the training will ensure a better quality education for the needs of craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78531	Thank you. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Drandic. Cain? You got it. Here you go, pal, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78532	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, This is the first, first reading, Law I agree, you should go to second reading. And some of the illogical things that I'm going to talk about that are happening in practice need to be changed. This observation made by the State Secretary that pensioners can also have a trade, if I understand it well without paying the contribution if this is the case, then it must certainly be welcomed. The Law on crafts was normally adopted in 1993 and regulated fundamental issues of craftsmanship such as the concept and type of crafts, conditions for doing business crafts, education, training for performing crafts, organisation, supervision, administrative measures. In addition to the Commercial Society Act, as it is said here in the assessment of these evaluations. It is a fundamental law that regulates status and other important issues for the operation of economic operators. It's the same after the 1993 entry into force, isn't it? changed twice, 1996 and 2001 and so on and so on. However, I will look back on this law only to Article 21. The law on crafts and it literally states that for the obligations that arise in the performance of crafts crafts, the craftsman shall correspond to the total amount of assets required to carry out the crafts. I've spoken several times, and now I'm going to repeat that more often, small craftsmen may be in a worse position and than the workers themselves who work with them. Why? Because based on court practice, the craftsman corresponds to his entire assets and the worker corresponds to his work. If he doesn't get 3 or 4 months' salary, he'll leave the craftsman, and if he doesn't settle his obligations once, he'll lose his home twice. So no harm, because of a bad business move, a craftsman can lose overnight without everything he has created or inherited, the worker is left without pay. I personally believe that such a provision is wrong. Why? Because a craftsman must not be in a different position than the one running the company and that corresponds only to the property of the company. On 1.6 this year, we had 36,000 blocked turns. I'm saying there are over 40,000 deadlocks today. It's more than 5 billion kunas of dubiosis that 36,000 crafts have. Over a year, as many as 35,000 turns have been blocked, and now the question is really being asked how to proceed. If, for example, a craftsman is obliged to pay the VAT within 30 days, then the State should pay off the obligation within the same 30 days, not that the state that becomes an ever worse salary makes the craftsman into bankruptcy, and on the other hand generates indifference. However, what I have come up for is the need to amend the provisions on the responsibility of the craftsman with all his assets. That this is one serious and among the courts of the debate and one letter that I received, which the Commercial Court of Zagreb referred to on 18 April 2005, to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, more specifically their civil department, with the aim of harmonising the case-law at the level of the Republic of Croatia with regard to this particular responsibility of the craftsmen referred to in Article 21. And among other things, it is literally said here that because of the above-mentioned conflict of interpretation of the standards of Articles 1 and 21. Trade law, and Articles 68 and 197. We propose that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of the legal powers of the article and of this Law on Courts, ensure the uniform application of laws and equality of citizens, and take a clear position on the responsibility of craftsmen and decide whether the craftsman is responsible for the obligations of the craftsman to his entire assets or is responsible for the obligations of the craftsman only. If the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia accepts the definition of liability referred to in Article 21. The law on trade according to which the craftsman is responsible for the processing obligations only of the property entered for the purpose of making the craftsmen then ask the same court to decide that the courts should act in executive or litigation cases in which one of the parties is a craftsman who has checked out the crafts and the property of the craftsman no longer exists. Under two, how to align the application of Article 21 For the purposes of this Article, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this It's a bankruptcy code. Is it possible, under three, to open a bankruptcy proceedings against the property of the debtors of the individual in case the trade is closed before the bankruptcy proceedings are opened. In the event that the definition referred to in Article 1 is accepted as correct. The law on trade according to which the craft is a natural person who carries out economic activity on his own behalf and for his own account then all these procedures relate to the existence of a natural person and not to the existence of a craft. It's been 13 years since the law on crafts was passed, and since the adoption of the bankruptcy law for 10 years. We believe that these issues should finally be resolved in a unified and clear manner in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia in order to achieve equality between all parties before the law. It simply states the meaning of the Commercial Court in Zagreb, it is simply unacceptable that there are different criteria on such an important issue as the responsibility of a craftsman. According to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, it does not matter, etc. In one word, gentlemen, the court practice is inconsistencies. One court, some courts force craftsmen to match the entire property. Other courts only with the property that was entered into that craft. This I assure you creates huge problems although there was a Supreme Court verdict there in 2004, with which it is relatively clear, decidedly saying that the craftsman corresponds only to the assets entered into the crafts. But unfortunately, it's not a dominant opinion among our courts. No matter what, I believe that our craftsmen should not be in a worse position than those who run companies, that one word to all should be treated the same way. I think this particular detail is the central issue of our craftsmanship and we need to clear, unequivocally resolve it. To this extent, it is good to discuss today the First Reading Law, that this law should come before us again, and I think that for such an interpretation that the craftsman corresponds as well as the companies entered with the property should also be elected by the competent minister. Otherwise, I believe that this House should bring authentic interpretations of a problem that creates a huge problem for the vast majority of our craftsmen that demotes them to register in this way, regardless of the fact that we have about 105,000 of these companies at this time. Two years ago, we had about a hundred thousand, and here today we have about 12,000 if I'm not wronged by more craft employees than it was two or three years ago. The IDS club will absolutely support these solutions, but we believe that this detail should be apostrophyd in some way because we believe that it is crucial. Why? Because a craftsman must not be in a worse position than the owner of a company of one or that of nature. Once again, we welcome the law, and so we just draw attention to Article 21. I assure you gentlemen that this is a huge problem with the more than 35, maybe 40,000 blocked crafts, that these people are responding to their entire assets, which will say that 35,000 houses, properties, I don't know all of what their ancestors created in some way in a drum and that they can stay without it overnight. So much esteemed gentlemen, please consider this article 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78533	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected colleague Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The HDZ Club supports, of course, and happily accepts this law that has been on the trail of everything this government has been doing for several years especially intensively since 2005, through the Ministry of Economy, when the measures of intensive promotion of crafts have begun, so that we have results that are evident, and these intensive steps have been different – from the different new interests that the colleague has said, to the price of a craft that has been reduced to 200 kuna, until the simplification of the creation of new crafts, so for the first time in this year we have a positive difference, so we have many more newly opened crafts than those closed, and that difference is that by 30.11. this year, only a thousand 202 new crafts have been opened. So in this branch that is resilient, which in the past systems is precisely because it guarantees personal property for its activity has progressed but much weaker than now we have about 1/4 of the total employees in Croatia in the economy. And that's why you keep encouraging it. So we can say that this law came out on the basis of the requirements that were accepted at the Ministry's Department of crafts where there were about 1,000 requirements that were at the border of what the previous law had prescribed, which has been changed three times today but which, with this new change, is therefore on the verge of allowing those at the border, so that there is no reduction in the criteria of the quality of the craftsmanship but also of the simplification of the criteria for obtaining the craftsmanship, so from three years to two, and for those new occupations that are open. Even for new activities, and therefore those who fail to make a greater total income than 43,000 kuna per year on the occasion of the amount of those 10 average personal incomes in the Croatian economy, therefore, do not pay taxes and so to say the budget of the family rich. And that's what we've recently adopted, which is supported by over 30 million kunas through marketing activities, through various incentives, by subsidizing interest precisely this activity of craftsmanship, which only for the education of craftsmen in the following year, predicts over 4 million and 300 thousand kuna in the following year. So after these three amendments, this is the fourth one we are to support that request and the opinion of the Ministry itself, which is said to be proposed to finally issue a consolidated text of this law, so that there are no more misunderstandings, so that people know very clearly that through and e, the crafts in one day can open the crafts, and in particular we support what already exists here, and what we will have in that Law on the Court Register, which is the simplification of the forms, so the missing forms and even the whole process of opening the crafts and checking the existing crafts. Here I had this opportunity to click on the Ministry of Economy today and type the name of our dear colleague, Joza Topic, and immediately his trade, addresses, everyone else. So that's something to be appreciated. By allowing authorised persons to enter registers, so to change data and people, users no longer have to walk from institution to institution. It's in the Croatian Revolution. So this should be rewarded, it should be commended and told the citizens what is at their disposal as the possibility of the technique and technology that Croatia accepts among the first. And the Croatian Democratic Community Club is therefore proud that this is happening for our term of office. I'll look back on a few articles. So the law is right in front of us. He foresees different new solutions. It is especially important that it has two segments that it processes, which is a domestic activity relating to production activities. So at home, you can do a range of products and various processings that people are doing now. But we also have different maintenance and repair services for which certain conditions should be met, of course. And it's a school room that's prescribed from high to low. And the number of years a person spends doing his job well, so in that craft, it is cumulative with that school preparation and the condition that he can open the craft. And what's important about this law is to say that this law doesn't know the craftsmanship as a paper, it knows the craftsmanship. So it's something that allows the acquired assets, the name, the company, everything, to stay in the family, to inherit and then to continue that activity that is positive. Also today, there have been amendments and additions to the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Qualifications. This law also knows the recognition of foreign qualifications for craftsmen. Which will make it easier for our returnees, therefore, to be able to either open turns by returning to Croatia or continue to work in crafts that they worked outside, and to be recognised by those qualifications they acquired in their home countries. So that's another benefit. So I'm going to point out again that the master's exam can be accessed after two years of work experience, if there is, of course, proper preparation. If there are at least 3 years of work experience and high school prepares unsuitable it can be done, and can be done with primary school, with a good knowledge of work after 10 years of work in the profession. And that's something that will once again enable a number of entrepreneurs to have economic activity and hopefully expand the number of crafts. What was controversial, because we all got on the benches together, of course, and the remarks of the Croatian Chamber of crafts were settled in the law as is best for all. So also for the Croatian Chamber of crafts and also for the users and for the legislator because what the Croatian Chamber of crafts demanded that all data be kept with them. It wouldn't be good just for the purpose of re-establishing that unique register that's already invested a lot of money. And this year, an additional 2 and a half million kuna will be invested for the expansion. Therefore, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce can also use all publicly available data. We also have certain benefits for these areas that are less economically developed. Therefore, in these mountainous areas of special state care, those who do not have full qualifications have the same possibility or with the employment of a manager with a certain qualification in their plant or with a degree of lower qualification do so precisely because there is not enough trained workforce, and jobs are done well or can be carried out under the auspices of that law. So there is still order in teaching children who go to craft schools, and in that part there is an extended number of those entities in which it can be done on a broader birth term that speaks a legal person. It is therefore no longer exclusively a commercial company, but it is cooperatives and different other crafts that are licensed by the Ministry of Education which will also control that practice. Because we've had cases, we can say it very openly that they've been coming somewhere, so they've just been sitting or I don't know how to wipe floors, and they haven't done that professional job if they've been trained for mechanics, builders or anything else. So this will be corrected, strictly controlled during this future period, and will in all cases lead to a new effect in this pro-populative branch. And for this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club expects, of course, that after the first reading and after all the well-intentioned remarks that lead to the improvement of this text, and of course the consequences of the law that arises for those concerned, to accept a new modern law that will make it easier for entrepreneurs to contribute even more to the participation of craftsmen in the overall economy of Croatia, such as the trend in all the Western countries that we seek, and that it will not be at the expense of the quality of the work done and that it will come out of that grey economy by registering both small craftsmen and that of home work, and of course, this is all leading to a better life in the country of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78535	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Pecek. Here's your colleague, Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78536	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. So I estimate how important it was to go into a new step and to change the rules regarding craftsmanship, of course through this fundamental law, but whether this step forward or in some parts of the proposal should be a step backwards, we should discuss it right here in the Assembly because it is obviously a proposal that has more serious ambitions to be first reading, and to supplement it in one part. I'll go back. Why is that a step back? Because the only innovation I notice in this law is a proposal to have him enter into force six months after the publication in the People's Newspaper. I don't know if we've had such an example here in the House, and I'd be particularly interested in what the arguments are to do in this way. For a period of six months, we would have a law that would be a dead letter on paper, a period where the minister couldn't pass sublaws and regulations, and apparently this law has ambition to have a lot of regulations and sublaws. In other words, this law will not be implemented for at least a year when it enters into force, when all the acts are passed and what we have done with this proposal is unclear to me and I think that the Proposer should explain here in the Parliament which are the ambitions of such a proposal. When we talk about a step backwards, then first of all I think about an existing system of education which is almost entirely for craftsmanship, of course, wants to change through this law and in a quiet way where we change the good practice that was done within the Croatian Chamber of crafts through vocational schools and through their interconnection. We are talking about one process that lasted 11 years, and in those 11 years, no remark or even a more serious proposal has been recorded to change such a situation. What's also a step back, allowing tied turns to open if you finish the course, I'll call it that, in the evening school. We are the land that we have heard in the reasoning of the budget and in the policy for the next period, which wants to seek to be a land of knowledge, not to be a country of tradition, not to be a country of private wealth, but to build our own development on knowledge. So it's logical that we try to compare ourselves to Scandinavian countries where 92% of people have high school and have a high school, that they end up in regular schooling and that they open up business based on these acquired skills in such schools. But here we allow someone with a primary school to open a craft and to allow such a craftsman without specialist knowledge to do the same as the one who had to go to regular education for four or five years and then take the master's exam, etc. Since this law is not ideal, a colleague mentioned the comments of the chamber. Yes, colleagues, we have 25 remarks from the Croatian Chamber of crafts which is still the most responsible for this state of crafts. However, these remarks are not respected, and these are precisely the most important ones in this law. Why don't we want to go on a new step? So that we do not give ourselves for the purpose as it says in some European Union documents for crafts, that both crafts and small companies should be opened within two days for 200 kuna, such as Is that what they're gonna be next... Whatever you're saying, give me one such example, I have all the other information about opening and procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And finally a thousand open craftsmen on the HItro for a year and a half, so that's what we're talking about, colleagues. So we have three thousand that opened the other way of crafts if we're going to pollemize. Where's your difference? Where's your difference between a thousand through the HItro service and other ways? What was inherited was inherited by the trade register. A craft register in which, within three years of the moment of issue of a craft on the central server, it appears on the same day who founded the craft. You didn't say anything new, which activity, at which address, etc. But the next phase should be for this craft register to be managed by the Croatian Chamber of crafts as the only institution interested in the development of crafts and as the only institution that could do so in quality. It's not in phase two of the state administration's work and it would've been a good step if we'd made it. Why do we not allow the Croatian Chamber of crafts to run its crafts register but must run a parallel register? It's completely unknown to me. It's true that that craft register was made for five years, even if I don't know what we're going to spend two and a half million kuna on. I don't really know, 'cause obviously he's been working for three years. I guess we'll spend it as well as for this next law called about a small economy. I'm reading in the budget that the amendments to that law cost two hundred thousand kuna. We changed four articles, 25 words, I used to write him thank God with my associates, it didn't cost anything, but in the budget we see that the amendments to that law cost... It is, therefore, worth four years and is therefore in response to the European Commission's question, and we have had the opportunity to answer all the questions in a good way as we can now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So if Croatia is a country seeking to society knowledge, it is unacceptable to lower the level of education achieved for craftsmanship. I've set two examples here. Someone can finish the evening school and can take the exam, someone can have a primary school and take one more exam and they'll get the names of the craftsman. We ignore what the state has done, and so has the Chamber in the last 10 years for vocational education in Croatia. So the Croatian Chamber of crafts received some powers granted by the Assembly not only at the time of the former coalition government but also something before. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce has been entrusted with public authority to deal with vocational education. Here we define it, and moreover, here we give opportunities for others to do it. We didn't say under what criteria, what conditions they had to have for it, what training people do, we didn't say anything. We just said we were giving it to them. As we have already said in Article 1 that we allow other non-commercial companies to deal with craftsmanship, so we said that they should be legal persons, but we did not say which legal persons. Well, it's probably a facility, too, 'cause I can see that there's a facility in there. And perhaps then the hospital can also do craftsmanship if we are to paint it. However, these proposals are interesting. In the opening explanation, it says that we will extend the powers of the Court of Honor to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which should, in any case, be done because I think it is one measure of improvement in the system. My colleague Cain mentioned that we have 25 thousand turns in the blockade and inside the craftsmanship there are strange situations. And that's why this court of honor should work better and have good powers. However, it says in the introduction, but no norm can be found in this Law. These amendments to the Law don't say anything about it. He writes only in the introduction and so much about the quality of the solution ahead of us. We still have the ambition to declare craftsmen dealing with tradition, or artistic craftsmanship. However, we did not say on what basis we would do so, what conditions they should meet. We didn't say anything in this law. Especially what I want to warn you about is the traditional problem of a craftsman with a business space where they work. We're going back to that example of whether a craftsman can work in a space that doesn't have a valid license if he's found inside. Here we are now introducing some brand-new terms called the right to dispose of. We are introducing the right to make available and we will return that useful permit even if the ministry proposed by this Act works in an object that does not have a valid permit. That facility never had a valid license, and it'll be very hard to get one. So, one criterion applies to the state, and the other criteria apply to a craftsman we expect to hire, develop, export. However, we always limit it, we always leave it with something extra to make it harder for him to do business. So I'm going for some solutions that are good here, anyway. As is the possibility of doing some work within the house. Europe also went to similar solutions, but of course it defined it much more precisely. She said they are born, new circumstances occur, especially regarding electronic forms of business and that work can be done from home. But we here now say that there's a limit of 10 average incomes and we don't say again what happens to people who do it and who will pay, who will still pay because the other laws make them, if they work through the Law on crafts, who will pay health and probably pension insurance. He won't have to interrupt, if he's retired, his status. He'll still be able to retire but he'll have to pay his pension. Did you take care of it? Will he have any rights if he pays his pension and at the same time he's retired? Will he have any additional rights if he pays for two basic health insurance? There's not a word about it here, and you see, these are the questions that interest these people the most. We also have a lot of unresolved issues, so here, I'm using this opportunity to remind ministry representatives that we here in the Parliament over two years ago have brought amendments to the Law on the lease of business space where we have allowed craftsmen to buy business space or to rent it. The law says it will be regulated by a regulation. The government has never announced it, we haven't even seen it. I will also remind the ministry that there is a possibility of introducing a flat-rate taxation, that these amendments to the Income Act allow. We've been waiting the same way for more than three years. So obviously ambitions are good, to go into changes that would bring something new, but ambitions are not fully clarified. Ambitions do not have enough width, such as the Croatian Chamber of crafts, finally and each craftsman individually assumed it would happen. I suggest that, in fact, each article is considered in particular and, among other things, the one where we say how a craftsman will practice. So it is said that he will conclude a contract with a conditional employer. A 15-year-old child has no right to enter into a contract, so at least here in the competent ministry called among other things and the labour economy should know and know. That's why I think this is one step back. That Croatia, which wants to be a country of knowledge, cannot treat craftsmanship like this. A craftsman who completes his vocational education, who then passed a specialist exam, who becomes a master cannot equalize himself with the one who finishes the course, who finishes school and then passes by paying 2 kilos of lamb the same test. Let's do the Chamber what it's been doing so far, let's leave it to secondary education to function as it has done so far because we're just going to continue with these good trends that happen in craftsmanship differently. Once again, we're going back one big step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78537	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pacek. Corrections to an incorrect allegation, the esteemed Mrs. Trakostanec has. Here are my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78538	I can't correct at least ten allegations I'm capable of, but I'd like to go with those whom I've corrected myself with Mr. Pecek. First, he said that the only correct innovation is the deadline of application of this Law, then he talked about changing the system of education, of course he was denying himself because there was innovation and that system of education, but in a better example than before, and then what he said was equating this uneducated with the one who had been educated for five years. That's not true. This only allows the knowledge and skills to be acquired in addition to formal education and informal with courses, with working experience, with learning life-long, so we believe that people who have gained knowledge and skills by working experience must be able to show it by passing a master's exam. So, the exam is the one that says how much you got by formal education plus practice, and how much you got by informal education plus practice. If that's the same why people can't make turns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78539	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Markovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's not true that with evening school you can't be a successful craftsman. I can tell Mr. Pecek a whole series of very successful craftsmen who finished their evening school, and even are successful, be careful even those who were before the '90s are successful. In two, three days they bought formal education in the neighbouring republic. It was very, very organized and went to the buses there unfortunately, not underestimating the clear education, the regular education that I think is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78541	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HSP club, dear colleague Tadic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78542	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen of the Ministry. Discussing the Law on crafts, one always wonders whether the law has been discussed by the Chamber of crafts, or whether the competent ministry has consulted the Chamber of crafts on the law. I have thus been acting as a representative of the past term, even when my colleague Pecek was in the role of minister and I have always tried to consult the ministry, on the one hand, to hear what they really think about the law, and on the other hand consult the Chamber of Commerce. It is therefore expected that the ministry shall consult the Chamber of crafts and that, when it does so, it shall ask those to whom the law will apply and simply because we have given the Chamber of crafts a certain public authority to carry out part of the business on behalf of the Croatian State. However, if the Chamber of crafts towards the Parliament, according to the club representatives, goes with six, seven pages of objections then it is crystal clear that the law was not really made according to the interests and needs of Croatian craftsmen. I don't care what any of us think, I'm interested in what the Chamber of crafts thinks and what they really want? They are, of course, objecting to what my previous words were, and that is the way of acquiring qualifications. Those who studied Russia’s history know that at a time of new economic policy, someone there cracked into their head to shorten their study hours, so they had engineers in two years and masters in one year. I am afraid that this whole story here is repeated and that someone has imagined that by cutting schooling and reducing education they will get equal quality masters who will not work in Zagreb, they will not work in Split either, they will not work in Rijeka, they will work in islands or mountain-mounted areas. So, watch out for the thing is completely misplaced. I agree that these are special difficult conditions of management, I agree that it is vital to have both the Hvar urns and the carpenters and the tailors, but let's please just not solve the problems over... So let's say this and this job can work even though it did not pass that qualification as a man who will work in Zagreb, but let's make it easier for a man from Hvar or Visa or Lastova or from Mrkople or from any mountain-mounted area to complete that exam. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's give him a scholarship, get him taxed, let's let him finish it, but let him have the same paper as the one that normally passed the master's exam in Zagreb. Let us not have masters of first and second categories, those first categories that will be in Zagreb, those other categories that we let work on islands and mountainous areas. It's an absurd thing to be introduced with this law. So if we want to help these people have craftsmen in their neighborhood, if we want to help craftsmen who want to work there, then let’s make it easier for them to study, but let’s not shorten that education or completely ignore some courses and correspondence courses. Forgive my sarcasm, but that's the essence of what my colleagues in the Chamber of Commerce are protesting here, and I absolutely agree with that. It's like saying someone can doctor physics through a correspondence course and night school. There's a course like that, there's a postgraduate, there's scientific papers, there's a procedure and there's that and there's that. You can't say now that if you do a doctorate in this country or that country and they're different. It's not. There are the same criteria and these criteria would have to be the same here. Now we're coming up with another problem, and that's a question of non-recognition of foreign qualifications. There was always a story about what would happen with mountain-mounted areas, etc., i.e. what the craftsmen there would look like, whether they had to take the master's exam or not, but here in Article 39 we add a new article... in which we peacefully recognise all possible foreign educational qualifications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, for me, it's even more worrying because here we're actually letting the craftsmanship work work equally done by a person who's not actually tested in any way in the home system, but with... A bona fide that comes from outside with a qualification that's the same as here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't have to believe it, and I believe that the Chamber of Commerce had to be consulted on this part to still be the one to check his master's calling, not the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. If, therefore, we have given the Chamber of Commerce the right to public authority and if the Constitution states that certain public administrations can only be entrusted by law to legal persons who have public authority, if so we have done so for the Chamber of Commerce, then neither the Minister of Education nor the Minister of Economy can take over. It's done by the crafts chamber, and if we let her test those who want to be masters and those who come out with some master's degree, then that obstriction should be performed by the craftsman's chamber. Fortunately, it's about first reading. I kindly ask you to consider these remarks, it is essential... and that when you write the final bill you consult the Croatian bar of attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78543	Thank you very much, dear colleague Tadic. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is a respected colleague of the Koreans. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. A colleague, Mršić? He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. A colleague of Vesna Skara Ozbolt? She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. And a colleague of the Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78544	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the motion, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Look, with us in Međimurje, there is a great agrarian population, a little land and a hard life they created from the Međimurec of an eternal traveler and a sealbar but also a valid, hardworking and professional craftsman. As the centuries-old and true Croats, the Međimurjes, their working, Christian and human virtues throughout history, had no basis for the Croatian homeland, which has been an active participant in the creation of European, economic and cultural civilization for centuries. In Međimurje, there have always been around 2,000 craftsmen working in Međimurje, who employ more than 6 and a half thousand people, almost 5% of the total population of Međimurje, a craftsman, as an inventor, as the ultimate creator of ideas. And certainly for this reason there is no end in Croatia that would have as many different craftsmen as Međimurje has. As a result, craftsmen in Međimurje always look intently at every newspaper produced by any new legal text dealing with the regulation of the rights and obligations of craftsmen. This novel of the Law on crafts, which in a certain way harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, wants first and foremost to produce 4 key things in my opinion, namely: the introduction of domestic work and secondary interest enabling persons in particular pensioners to carry out their activities, laying down simpler conditions for access to master tests and enabling them to carry out related crafts, the introduction of the obligation to have a business space to carry out their activities and to continuously upgrade education systems and to prescribe control obligations for the issue of permits to carry out a practical part of teaching. I think that of these four most important newspapers that are brought into our legal system and into our Law on crafts, what most craftsmen including here and Croatia's Chamber of crafts will sign 3 and I think that the opposition exists when it comes to determining simpler conditions for accessing master's exams and allowing them to carry out tied crafts. But that's why I welcome this situation when you can see that this law that is P.Z.E. We are talking about it as in the first reading today, and I hope that by the next reading of this observation that will be heard and in this debate today on this problem, as well as the remarks of the Croatian Chamber of crafts will be accepted and that, finally, it will be agreed to bring in one good and useful novel of the Law on crafts. Because you know for me as well as for all of us craftsmen and craftsmen should be in the spotlight of interest not only now when adopting such a law on changes and additions but every day because the craft was created with the first beginnings of civilized life on Earth and it was held until today. This is what makes the craft very healthy with the strength of every economy as well as Croatian. All the importance of crafts and craftsmen shows us only one fact, about tiny and inconspicuous and inconspicuous so much in the media and actually very, very important to all of us. And that is, only in June of this year did Croatian craftsmen open 5 thousand 300 jobs and opened it in the way they have opened for decades, centuries and thousands of years and lived peacefully, modestly and without any representation of it as a great success. So two thousand years ago let me finally tell you what we see and we can read from the book of Sirah. "They all trust in their hands, and each one is worthy of his work. Without them, no city can be built and there are no settlements or trips. But they do not ask them in the Council of the People and do not stand out in the municipality. They don't sit on the chair of a judge and they don't understand the Law of Testament. They do not stand out by education, nor by sound judgment, nor are they among the creators of the wise sayings. But they reflect the created world, and their prayer is directed towards the work." If that's how we're going to look at craftsmen during today's debate and finalisation in the second reading, I think we're going to make the most of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78545	Thank you, dear fellow Dancer. It's all right, dear fellow Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78546	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs! I will also say a few words with this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on crafts. I personally come from the crafts, so I'll first say what we craftsmen are and, unbound by the craftsman's chamber, expected that it should change and that in some ways it is controversial in the functioning of craftsmanship instantly on the market. Namely, it's bound to be said immediately about the work as the first inspection service. We do, we passed the law in '93. and this law is, in a way, governed by the legislation governing this matter in Central Europe, especially Bavaria, the whole of Germany, Austria, Belgium, etc. And there it is explicitly said that binding turns require a certain qualification. It takes a master's test. And this master's exam is passed in front of a certain commission from the crafts chamber itself and of course that at the first moment the law was passed and the Croatian Chamber of crafts was established that it was not all possible to predict immediately and it was not all clear how and how best to regulate it. Because, in principle, regional or county principles, there are so-called craft chambers at County level. And at the county level, any regional crafts chamber can organize master exams, but we also have witnesses and we have found that, it is one of the problems that we notice if we are talking about the quality of qualifications themselves. We have noticed that certain counties are not equally developed, so even craftsmanship in the respective counties is not properly developed and we do not have certain crafts sufficiently represented especially unskilled. And then you're going to organize a commission in such a county for a master's exam and surely that the quality of that exam and these diplomas can't match the quality of a diploma in a center where craftsmanship is developed. And there are serious objections from the craftsmen themselves, given that Croatia is not uniformly developed, in order to in some way centralise but of course under the cap of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. Another problem also related to the Institute of Master Examining and related to the so-called related crafts is that many entrepreneurs, in order to avoid the condition or requirement that they must take the master's exam, open crafts activities but as a stock company, as d.o.o. and thus also avoid passing master's exams although it is said in law that they should meet the conditions that they, in their companies or companies, in this case crafts, have qualified masters. But because of this lack of coordination between the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Economy and, of course, the Chamber of Commerce is passing through so that you have a large number of crafts that operate on me crafts activity without having adequate qualifications in such a way as to serve the Institute of Share Society d.o.o. It's one of the same serious examples. Of course, by saying that this law was made according to one model basic law of '93. according to one model, the Central European model is why, given the opportunities that we had then had in Croatia, we could not literally transfer it and rewrite it because the craftsmanship in Croatia was abandoned, because this tradition of successful craftsmanship, which was just spoken of by Mr. Pleško before, that it was interrupted after World War II, so that many important institutions of Croatian craftsmen were gone, their property was taken away and many craftsmen were taken away. We are at that moment when we changed the social system, when the free state of Croatia came, when we joined the market economy we did not have enough quality masters. That's a fact. And we kind of adapted the law to the conditions that were then possible and that's good. And I think with these amendments and the additions to the law, and I expected that the changes would go in that direction, that they would go in further improving education, the education of craftsmen. But here it went in one other direction. I understand the promoter, and in some ways I can support this quest to employ an even greater number of people through crafts, because we have finally realized that craftsmanship is an extremely significant quarter of the working population, or employees work in crafts. And a twist should therefore be given a very great importance. But, gentlemen, in the context that we want to join the European Community, in the context that we have taken from the very beginning the model of organization of crafts and the law itself in such a way that it is in a way that it is in line with the legislation of Central Europe, then it would be logical that we continue to follow these trends and I expected that a proposal would come to us to further set up crafts schools, professional crafts schools, master schools and certain academys. We don't have that here. Unfortunately, there is a reduction, so there is a reduction in what some colleagues may have said might have been a little too harshly said that in the evening course or in some course you can get a diploma to carry out certain activities. I support this initiative, or the idea of this bill for learning activity. I think it's okay and it should be supported. I also think that this institute that was introduced in this bill is good, which is to restore the status of a traditional art craft. It's two good newspapers and I support them. But dear gentlemen, this about these tied turns that, for example, what colleagues have already stated and said that other criteria in qualifications and expertise should apply to a craftsman who works in the field of special state care or in islands compared to colleagues who work, fellow craftsmen who work in larger cities. Of course, this institute, if I am not mistaken, this article 7 was passed in 2001 by amending the law and I don't think it showed the results that the promoter expected of it because you have a situation where, for example, a craftsman from some major work registers the company, I will say in Grazac for some installations and other works, and he doesn't have to meet the qualifications as all other artisans have to meet but can compete and ultimately act and work in the field throughout Croatia. I think that quality, raising the quality of craftsmen, is very important to us precisely because of our entry into the European Union. And I'm going to say one example from the practice that I know, here's what I recently heard from a French firm, a company that bought one of our hotel's renovators that had to invest 5 million euros in order to repair all the failures and damages that were caused simply by unprofessional work. And be careful, we can swear, I think that the potential in craftsmanship is extremely great but it is necessary to make additional efforts in further education of craftsmanship and I think that the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen must in some way play an even greater role in all of this and I think that in relation to the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Science and the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, it should bring new and novelty programmes for the education and training of craftsmen and craftsmen. Here's my time, I thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78547	Thank you very much, dear colleague Topic. It's time for my dear colleague, Roxandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues and colleagues, state secretary and assistants. I'm going to make a connection, and it's a good thing that my colleague Topic ended his debate like this because I'm about to make a connection by supporting this idea of his that we should really raise the level of education in craftsmanship to a higher degree than it is so far rather than shrinking. But I think it is good that these laws and changes of law also allow individuals to carry out their activities as domestic and secondary employees. Normally, with limited reception achieved from the pursuit of activity because I think it will be possible to preserve a large number of traditional crafts; blacksmiths, corporals, medics, lycitars. It is good that this bill has particularly highlighted these traditional trades because such crafts on which not much money can be earned are almost lost. Despite all the promotional activities that craft schools have already spent in primary schools, in addition to the scholarship of deficiting professions, students find it difficult to enroll in professions such as wallpapers, enemas, roof covers, limes, chimneys, collages that are almost gone. Here's an example from practice. Despite the fostering of Croatian sows, the horse of the Croatian sower, the cold-blooded, along with all possible activities carried out to keep this, this breed, the indigenous breed, that it develops you will not believe but there are almost no blacksmiths who can soar horses, for example in Sisak-Moslavina County, which is currently leading in the number of these horses. So you really need to encourage young people on these traditional turns. Perhaps this, this provision in this bill will also lead to some blacksmith appearing in this area. It is also important to point out that this amendment to the law applies and supports some changes also in the segment of education. Namely, the statistics on enrolment in craft schools tell you that of those, the number of planned craft professions is almost never recorded in any area by children 100%. It's always between 60 and 70% of the planned number of entries in craft professions. For years it has already been placed in school circles, as well as in the Committees on Professional Education, which also work in craft chambers, how to popularise enrolment in craftsmanship. The biggest problem in the education for craftsmanship is the implementation of a practical course in crafts schools. The chambers point to the problem of a licence that could have been implemented in craft workshops so far that all personnel, material, spatial and equipped workshops were satisfied, and in some parts of the workshop were really very small, so one or possibly two students could be enrolled in a particular profession. As a result, it is good to allow the new proposed Article 29 to carry out practical training, except in the craft workshop and the company and the institutions and cooperatives. Normally those who meet the conditions they must meet in order to obtain a licence to carry out practical training. Article 33 states that the craftsmen and legal persons who receive the teaching of scientists conclude with him a written learning contract, which the craftsmen have done and concluded so far, but now that the number of those who are able to carry out practical teaching should also experience some changes. Here's why. Article 5 of the R & D Treaty regulates the obligation of craftsmen, and this is now under this new proposal and an extended obligation on some others to pay cash compensation during the practical period. And it says this: 15% of the average net personal income achieved in the previous calendar year for first grade scientists, 20 for 2nd grade scientists, 25 for 3rd grade scientists. According to a survey conducted by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and crafts, a large number of craftsmen are not currently paying this fee. So no, there are no and no betrays or most often crosses when a parent comes on behalf of a student to sign, and even so far, parents have done so, I hope that even now because it is about fourteen-year-olds or 15-year-olds, a craftsman most often crosses this provision in a contract with the parents' signature that he does not have to pay that fee. I think it should affect, and that's what they're asking, at least so far they've been looking for craft chambers with which I've been talking about maybe this article 5 changes in the contract because the fact that all scientists are not equally interested in practice. Some, part of the scientists don't even refer to that practice the way they should. He's not fulfilling his obligations. So that paid part of the scientist's fee is according to, let's say the merits. And maybe it would be good to think about it now and we should make a new learning contract because if there is a change in these legal provisions then that contract must be changed. In order to perhaps commit those who exercise practical training to provide students with a potentially warm meal and work and protective clothing. Maybe this cash compensation shouldn't stand so strictly but that perhaps the craftsman that rewards the person who makes a practical fee out of teaching but under certain conditions or that in some way this fee goes into business costs, so that craftsman will be believed and motivated to give him this cash compensation. It is very difficult sometimes especially in smaller environments, what counterpart Topic said where the crafts were not developed, it is very difficult to find such a workshop and such a place to learn. Watch out for students to receive teaching is also a great commitment to a craftsman. All people who do trade, their ultimate goal is to create income and profit normally. Such a student, I will not say that it is a distraction because it would be a very difficult word, but certainly in some particular situations with this student must and normally and is expected, and that is the purpose of practical teaching and work and allow him to make some product and make mistakes and spoils. So that's really the cost of that craftsman. I think these contracts should be taken into consideration by the adoption of this new law. Here, so much of my contribution to this, in craftsmanship and finally, I think that the ones that you have proposed will certainly be the ones who have proposed changes to the licensing of workshops and those who can perform practical classes, especially in crafts schools, because extending the possibility of licensing outside craft workshops, I believe, in some parts, will also allow for an increased number of enrolments of children in craft schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78549	Thank you very much, dear colleague Roxandić. It's time for my dear fellow Viceroy. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78550	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary, Mr. Assistant Minister. Where, with these amendments and additions to the Law on crafts whose adoption is proposed, it is intended to enable natural persons to carry out their activities as a domestic activity or a secondary occupation that would be limited to the predetermined height of the total receipts. In order to establish simpler conditions for carrying out less demanding tied crafts, the skills for which a professional training examination is required allows for the submission of examinations on professional training and in authorised educational institutions, if the conditions for access to a master's examination are laid down, so that as a condition for a two-year working experience for persons with inadequate secondary training or school preparation of a given three-year working experience, and for persons with a completed primary school, a 10-year working experience. Where a licence or licence is to be issued for the practical part of teaching to legal persons, cooperatives and institutions that meet the prescribed conditions. If the establishment of supervision also wishes to ensure a more quality and secure education of young people in the process of teaching, and if the consequences of law-making will be that the introduction of domestic work and secondary occupation will allow for a wider number of natural persons, especially pensioners. This is very important. In particular, pensioners shall carry out their activities by laying down simpler conditions for access to the master's exam and by making it impossible to carry out tied crafts under certain conditions only with completed medium-sized expertise in the areas of a specific law on areas of special state care, the Law on the Islands and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and thus to speed up and achieve better quality implementation of the policy of development of crafts and promotion of employment, then such solutions should be supported in any case. However, I believe that if we look at the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, then some views should be harmonised, all in favour of craftsmen and craftsmen. Namely, among other things, the Croatian Chamber of crafts indicates that the Law on crafts is defined as a form of carrying out economic activity. For one of these activities, the related crafts shall be required under general conditions and special conditions of professional training or of the submitted master's examination. Gentlemen, that should be considered. In this respect, the difference between craftsmen and other economic operators is important, as the conditions of special expertise and knowledge which ensure the provision of quality services and quality products are required to carry out crafts activities. The Croatian Chamber of crafts believes that some solutions in the proposed law can significantly affect the reduction of the quality of the educational process. Of course that kind of thing I believe this ministry won't allow. Right? So, finally, I suggest that until the second reading of this bill, this proposal is reached, to agree with the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen in order to help craftsmen and craftsmen rise to the level that craftsmen belong to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78551	Thank you very much, dear colleague Poirot. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. Here you go. Mrs. Kissic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78552	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. I most warmly thank you for this very comprehensive debate and for the arguments you have made regarding the amendments to the Law on Turning. I must point out here that the ministry is working very well with the Chamber and that the Chamber of Commerce has been in working groups preparing this bill. I have with me the opinion of the 29th Chamber of Brethren, which is addressed to our ministry and whose over 20 suggestions and suggestions have been accepted. Of course, we did not accept any suggestions, but this opinion came to the Assembly and from the 40th session of the Management Board of the Croatian Chamber of crafts held on 20.11. The economy ministry didn't win, so we couldn't show ourselves to it. Here, I commit myself, or the Ministry, to once again sit down until the second reading and see if these remarks, which the Chamber of crafts later provided, have been submitted whether we can include them in the proposal for a law that will go to the second reading. Here, once again, I thank everyone warmly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78553	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78554	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. I give the vote the conclusion: The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on crafts and all objections, proposals and opinions will be adopted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 79 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78555	We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Encouragement of Small Economy Development, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 571; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain this further? Yeah. State Secretary, right, Tajana Kesic Sapic, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78556	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the small economy as a summary concept includes crafts, cooperatives, small and medium-sized companies and other forms of private entrepreneurial activity. It is one of the most important drivers of overall economic development. It promotes private ownership and entrepreneurial capacity, it is adaptable to market changes, generates employment, helps diversify economic activities and contributes significantly to increasing export production, making it the most dynamic part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. Small economy entities account for as much as 99% of the total number of economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, they employ 55% of the total number of employees, making a significant share of the gross domestic product. In 2002, the Small Economy Development Act was adopted and created a legal basis for taking economic policy measures aimed at the dynamic development of the entire economy, and in particular measures adapted to defined small economy economic operators. The amending Accounting Act, as well as the optional guidelines of the European Union, has led to non-compliance with the definitions, sizes, economic operators in Croatia. So a definition that regulates the size of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The national programme for the accession of the European Union for 2006 has given the Republic of Croatia the obligation to comply with the national economy rules with the Acquis Communitaire which will be met by the adoption of this law. The aim of this law is to simplify the environment for a small economy by using a common definition in accordance with the Accounting Act, to improve statistical reporting by avoiding multiple statistical definitions, to establish a better management system for small-scale measures designed to achieve greater efficiency and efficiency of the government's development guidelines, given the large number of small economy support programmes. A harmonised and detailed definition aims to ensure greater legal certainty and to respect economic reality which will lead to simplification and acceleration of administrative procedures in cases where division into micro, small and medium-sized economic operators is necessary. The Act amending and supplementing the Small Economy Development Act shall be amended as follows. The definition of small economy coverage in order to identify precisely the target group of small-scale operators intended for incentive measures in accordance with the Law on Accounting and Recommendations of the European Union, the criteria for the distinction of micro, small and medium-sized operators, the specific incentive measures for vocational education, retraining and qualification of workers, or the application of the principle of lifelong learning. Mandatory application of State aid rules is prescribed when granting support. Active and preventive employment measures subject to specific rules and programmes are excluded, the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia is clarified. Legislative terminology is harmonised with the Law on the Establishment and the Part-Corruption of Central Authorities of the State Administration. The consequences that will come to pass by law are as follows. Simplification of the environment for a small economy using a common definition in accordance with the Accounting Act, increased statistical reporting by avoiding multiple statistical definitions, and approximation of the European Union recommendations, which will harmonize compliance with the conditions for the European Union’s small economy programmes. This is the first law in the Republic of Croatia to assess the impact of the law on the economy where we measured the impact of different definitions, so the current definition which is based on the current Small Economy Encouragement Act, the definition which is applied under the Accounting Act and the recommendations of the European Union guidelines, is therefore a definition recommended by the European Union. The impact assessment has shown that accepting a European definition brings the greatest benefits to our entrepreneurs as a much larger number of businesses would enter the support system for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but by much more stringent criteria. At this point, we felt it necessary to harmonise the definition of the Small Economy Encouragement Act with the Accounting Definition, and the second step is to bring the definitions of the Accounting Act into line with the European Union's guidelines. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Small Economy Encouragement Act will create assumptions to improve transparency and accessibility of small economy incentives, while raising the level of harmonisation of measures and bringing closer to the European Union's recommendations, which will allow a greater number of entrepreneurs to run for incentive programmes for a small economy in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78557	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Attorney Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78558	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary, Mr. Government. Of course, the legislative regulation that comes into discussion at first reading I think it is welcome in any case and in any case the IDS Club will support this Amendments and Supplements Act in certain segments. Because we believe that, by its concept, it contributes to the development of a small economy in the finality. If the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy is governed by the definition of small economy coverage in order to identify the target group of small-scale operators which are intended for promotional measures in accordance with the Law on Accounting and Recommendations of the European Union, if the criteria for the differentiation of small-scale micro-, small- and medium-sized subjects are, if specific measures for vocational education, retraining, retraining of workers, i.e. the application of the principle of lifelong learning, if the active and preventive employment measures subject to specific rules and programmes are excluded, if the availability of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia is clarified, if the number of holders of the implementation of the Small Economy Development Programme is increased, the institutional framework for the implementation, control of certain measures, and thus, and the achievement of the objectives should then I say in any case should be supported. If the consequences resulting from the adoption of this law are to simplify the environment for a small economy by using a common definition, if static reporting is improved by avoiding multiple statistical definitions, etc., etc. Then such solutions should, in any case, be supported. I believe that in all this it is good that we also have the opinion of the Competition Protection Agency, which says among other things, the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Small Economy Act does not contain provisions which are contrary to the laws, with the provisions of the State Support Act. However, in order to avoid possible ambiguities and the application of the Small Economy Incentives Act, the Agency proposes to add to the text of the draft Act amending and supplementing the Small Economy Encouragement Act an article that reads, under quotes, "All the incentive measures under this law will be adopted in accordance with the rules on State aid.". I believe this one, I believe, will fit in. Secondly, I would also like to point out what I am interested in in this case, given that in this part, therefore, the harmonisation of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Article 1 is therefore amended in Article 1 which said in the first paragraph, a small economy within the meaning of this law is made up of entities, paragraph 3. Therefore, those entities which make the total annual turnover of HRK 60 million or have a balance sheet total if they are taxpayers of profit, i.e. they have long-term assets if income tax bonds are worth up to 30 million kuna. That law is now changing practically as far as I can see, quadruple. So we go from 60 million kuna to an annual turnover of 216 million kuna and taxpayers on income from 30 million kuna to 108 million kuna, so there is little I can say vaguely, where then our Croatian small entrepreneurs go. I know that a small entrepreneur in Austria or Italy is quite something else than a small entrepreneur in Croatia, so maybe that's what I can say for myself, which is why I believe I'm going to get an answer to that. However, since HABOR is also mentioned in this, I know that the administrative council as far as I know has a large number of members if I am, right... Hamag yes, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Hamag. I don't know how, I believe it would be good to do something about it, whether to cut the number, but in any case I think it would be very good to get involved inside. Finally, here is the club IDS proposed that this bill be agreed by the second reading and with the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in order to give a small economy the place and this legislative proposal that it should ultimately belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78559	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78560	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. I don't think there's any symbolism here that actually we in the back row are talking about a small economy, because a little economy is how much we see from this data in the first row, but there's always something. So we have shown the need to see from the bill, for the definition of small economy coverage, so we define the division of micro, small, medium-sized, small economy, so the maximum criterion of annual transport, the overall activity, the long-term assets that these entities have to meet. I think the figures are fine and they should be supported, and all of this must be respected, both clearly and in accordance with the Accounting Act, and it is also good to respect the European Union guidelines, although they are optional so far. The goal is to achieve the best possible results with small economy incentives and better coordination. This is an interesting example of the fact that as many as 8 government institutions in Croatia provide support for a small economy through 65 separate incentive programmes. Here, it's clearly quite difficult for entrepreneurs to manage, but here are more and more different institutions dealing with these, entrepreneurship centres so that entrepreneurs have this kind of strong logistics. And the European Union sees that it requires simplification of regulatory frameworks, harmonisation of the statistical observation of the small economy to standardise Croatia with the countries of the European Union. By this law, I think, by the bill of law, that all that I have stated will be achieved. How important really pre-accession funds should be, and we should talk a little more about it, and we who were here at a seminar in Brussels, here with a few colleagues, where we had lecturers from countries that had recently joined the European Union, where they were actually warning us how unfortunately they had not used those funds. So very well-intentioned. According to all these approaches, it is very important to make a very serious use of everything offered, because in fact, the economy always needs a lot of resources. We see that the shift is quite good, here and we have received information that in 2003 2.5 entrepreneurs were on 100 inhabitants, in 2006, already more than 6 entrepreneurs per 100 inhabitants although Croats are not very prone to entrepreneurship, but I believe they are moving more and more into it. And if this is the Ministry, the government helps us to see from a series of examples here. Small and medium-sized enterprises even represent 99% of registered business entities, so the team should pay more attention to the conditions in which entrepreneurs operate. According to the FINA data, we even have that the total revenues of small entrepreneurship in 2005 are 10% higher than the year before, so there are positive positive developments that are well seen. What does the government offer them? Here's the H.I.T.R. service. My colleague says I just don't know a thousand registered through the HItro service, and three thousand in one classic way that's very good, because if we add that up, that's four thousand new entrepreneurs, so here we can be satisfied with that. Otherwise, entrepreneurs still don't tend to do too much information, avoid wherever they can, clearly the bigger ones take people who are good at information, so that's one of the reasons they still work in a classic way. Here, in June 2006, the so-called E-turn, electronic service for those lines registration crafts. We wait impatiently for all the Heathress to destroy. I believe a lot of things will go away, and with that, a series of restrictions. In order to facilitate access to financial resources here is the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in cooperation with the regional self-government and business bank... carried out a local project of business development. The rate thanks to the ministry's subsidy is between 2% and 4%, which must have been well received. According to the project, 3 000 474 credit claims were granted to entrepreneurs, and the amount granted was as much as 3.7 billion kuna. It should be noted that more than half of the approved requirements apply to craftsmen, however. Then we have other projects that will very much help, it's an E-tax project, so it'll be able to be informed in all possible ways, there won't be any more questions why. The E-regos service as part of the HItro service also removes the window waiting when handing over mandatory retirement insurance forms. Then new entrepreneurs can, and even those who intend to expand, also use the E-katastre, and digital land books within the E-Justice project, contain data from land books that are very harmonised, which should be maximumly harmonised, because let us remember that ownership of the owner and the mediator really has a number of things that are out of line, so many are surprised when they get the papers. We had a recent encounter with the IMF where they tend to point to investment difficulties again, difficulties with entrepreneurs. We explained to them nicely that whoever of the investors comes with good intentions and who wants in one transparent way regardless of whether it's our entrepreneur or our foreign entrepreneur here to open up the firm that he can. The problem is with those who actually come across representatives, our citizens, here where intentions are not quite right. Well, if that's detected properly, there won't be any problem. Therefore, the HDZ Club will in any case support this Law, and I believe that until the second reading will be accepted and suggestions for improvement will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78561	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, now I'm also able to show changes to the law that cost 200 thousand kuna. 10 articles, each article, 20 thousand kuna, and it's made most of the provisions, it's deleted, it's erased, and there's not a single new measure. Conversely, the measures are being abolished, and it is a good thing that fellow Markovanovic talked about craftsmanship and entrepreneurship because otherwise these people wouldn't even know how well they were doing. Then why are 30 grand in blocks and why they barely survive? Because of the lack of measures that are supposed to take place, and this Law reminds me of some measures, and this Law allows some others to get into a small economy. So why do I want to say that this is also a law that we're going to step back, which we're raising too high a ladder to do. We're raising her to the criteria. We allow large-scale access to measures to support craftsmanship and a small economy, and at the very moment when we can expect something more from Europe. So you can imagine how much these little ones will be able to consume that money pre-accession if they compete along with the big ones. So we've raised the criteria that INA will also be able to show up, caricate things, of course, as a small businessman. So did you read what it says here? Article 1 states that a small businessman is the one who makes 216 million kunas of transport. That the little businessman is the one who has the value of the property of 108 million kuna. So, he will be able to compete with the measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, carried out by the Ministry, the HBOR, implemented by the Small Economy Agency and, of course, will be able to consume pre-accession European funds. But here it writes nicely in the introduction when we boast about how many small and medium-sized enterprises we say there are 70,000 of them and we say how many employees they have, just as much income they have. Well, the income of an average small businessman is somewhere around, I estimate this year, about 500 thousand euros. So somewhere around 3 and some million kunas, and we set a criterion for small businessmen to have income of 216 million kunas. So what was it that led the proposer to lift the scale this high, make it possible to access the big one? So do we always have to listen to the European Union's recommendations? And they didn't go that way. Of course, the European Union has similar measures and has similar criteria, but try to place yourself in a position of income and property of small enterprises in 25 European Union countries and Croatia. Well, of course that's not comparable at all. So now, I say, one INA will be able to compete for incentive measures. The same goes for us in Article 2 which is only "innovative" under quotes, as well as Article 1. It's a micro-entity that makes 14 million kuna income, an annual income. Or an annual income that is 5 times the average income of small businesses. So what are we talking about, gentlemen? So how can we praise these measures? This has nothing to do with the lives of Croatian entrepreneurs. That's what I want to comment on. Likewise with the property, it is the micro or smallest entity of the small economy that has the value of the property of a million euros, 7 million kuna. So what kind of micro-economics are these? And of course, we will allow all of them to use measures. However, in this law there are no such measures. By this law, we suggest that we delete some measures as much as possible. In addition to the definition and the wrong criteria for the distinction of large and small in Croatia, this Law also deletes some active employment measures, because we say we will solve this through other laws. Of course, we always say we'll settle through other laws, so let's never solve it. So here we will delete the provision under which a small businessman can use special support, i.e. get the grant support if he employs every new worker and keeps it. It was passed in law as a possibility. Of course, under the law, a special programme was to be adopted to support small businesses in this way, however. We don't bring in the program, we shut down that possibility. In the same way, the Croatian Small Economy Agency could, and I think it should, implement the measures or the activity of the public tender in order to rent to small businessmen unused state space that can be in business function and that they can buy it through the tender, i.e. to rent it. But here, in a simple way for 200 thousand kuna, we say, we delete that. The Croatian Small Economy Agency will no longer implement the measure. But it was created as a specific measure of the Agency and as a specific approach towards the small economy in Croatia. So now she's losing that opportunity at all, and the law forbids that the Agency works that way. But what is the role of the Agency? So the Agency's role when it's probably up because it's already a new law and a new statute of the Agency seems to me for four years, so it should probably have a branch office in every county and every major city in Croatia like that anywhere in the world from America, Germany, the Netherlands. No, I don't. In Croatia, we don't have that. We don't have it, Mr. Markovanovic will probably successfully correct me on this because I already see that he's raising a bat, he's a successful correcter of what isn't said, but I would be glad that this small economy agency is both in Vukovar, in Dubrovnik and Zagreb, and I would be glad that it is possible to access these measures in such a simple way. Croatia's problems are known, it's unemployment, it's a deficit, it's an excessive debt, it's an unbalanced regional development, it's corruption, there's legal uncertainty. So what kind of problems don't directly affect a small economy, craftsmanship? Everyone influences directly, because, of course, if corruption is a difficult position, if it's legal uncertainty, then when he's in court, he's fighting to better pay for the invoices he sent will fail. However, what are we now trying to change through this Law and through all other measures? Do we want to have horizontal measures besides vertical ones? Do we want to approach solving the bottom-down problem once and for all, not just top-down? And do we want to run such a policy that will address administrative obstacles, so I still see them in this law. And do we want to create a supportive financial environment especially for a small economy? You know what happened in Croatia five, six years ago? It happened that a large economy had a fall in employment, and a small economy had a growth and a very intense growth, and we can continue to do so. We swear a small economy is a development generator, a employment generator, a great potential in exports, but when we bring measures, when we change the law we always forget it. Europe, so much swear on it, implements measures, this Law was written four or five years ago, but Europe has in the meantime adopted four, five measures that have also improved the legislative framework, and they have adopted measures to help the small economy so that we can find measures to develop the entrepreneurship climate, there are measures to speed up banking procedures towards small ones, how to finally increase efficiency and how to increase the transparency of government measures towards small economies and general instruments for entrepreneurship, how to improve access to capital, especially if they are state institutions as HBOR, how to build further encouraging infrastructure for small entrepreneurs? Well look we had a call center four years ago for small entrepreneurs not only in Zagreb, but in all the districts where there were several hundred calls daily, but we no longer have it. We had one paper specializing in a small economy so we don't have it anymore. Here you see, Europe is doing this, and here we are in the last year of the government's mandate changing the law in the wrong way, changing it so that we can raise the bar too high to allow large ones to use measures for small ones and swear that we are an entrepreneurial government, as our colleague Markovanovic e-Government said, e-Register, that is, that is, and actually the results are concrete when we change the law, when we bring in incentive measures, there are none. And even in this Law, it says that his changes will not require any additional commitment of money from the state budget, nothing he has brought, life means usually when it is supported and financially, but obviously as it says here, there is nothing. I think we need to find other ways, better quality ways, more modern ways to get closer to the sector of crafts and small economy. They have great expectations of us as we have of them to hire and develop. However, the prerequisite is one more ambitious Small Economy Act, this is the first such law that we change, it was first passed, but now with changes I am absolutely sure that it should have better quality solutions, that it should have more incentive measures not to act as decentralised as it clearly intends to continue. So let's try to get better quality, let's try to become more innovative. The easiest thing to say is that we are amending the law because the European Union is proposing, not asking, but proposing that we increase the criteria for total income for a small economy. Well then we'll say the little businessman is the one who makes 216 million kunas, even if the average makes 3 million kunas. Which is 70% no longer relevant, 70 times no longer matters. As a matter of fact, we have found a recommendation from Europe somewhere, and we have translated it into law, and we have not normally consulted anyone and we do not normally know what it carries in the future. Well, I'm absolutely sure what he's wearing. 90% of all incentives will take away large, 90% of European Union funds will carry out large revenues of over 100 million kuna, which have the value of more than 100 million kuna. How can a micro-entity with one or two employees successfully compete with one who has 200 employees and 200 million kunas of income? I assure you in no way and that is why I propose, and this will be our condition of support when the law comes to the agenda in the second reading to reduce the criteria, to reduce the total income into real Croatian frameworks, as well as to reduce the value of the property into frameworks such as in Croatian small entrepreneurship. This applies equally to small and micro entrepreneurs, and what is still the additional condition of the HSS is that instead of erasing support and activities that could help the small economy to have at least a few new forms of opportunity in the next changes, the craftsman and the small businessman get the support they will feel in their pocket, not just verbally as we do too often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78563	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Krono Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78564	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He said only at the beginning, "The craftsmen do not know how well they are." Well, I think they know they're better off than when you were a minister because the differences in the number of entrepreneurs, the higher income, the greater the profit tax. And finally, your greatest success was to cut off the county, city and municipal budgets and play benefactors to entrepreneurs and craftsmen. And I thank you for the compliment that I am a successful correction of failed ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78565	We're moving on to an individual debate. ... Well, you gave him an insult. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said in advance what you didn't know he was going to say. ... Well, then let's just be a little bit tolerated, and that's how those advances were later unwarranted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the first is in an individual debate Mr. Miroslav Korenik who is not there. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt? Good to see you, too. Mr. Ivan Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78566	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, I've prepared a debate, but I'm still going to start something else. In particular, I will say that it is not as nice as my colleague Markovanovic says, but it is also five times so not all so black as to want to show my colleague Pacek. And the happiest would be if the authorities and you from the opposition or if at times different support one law and say that it is good and that it leads to economic growth in the country of Croatia. Respecting the fact that the small economy is one of the most important drivers of economic development, the small economy accounts for 99% of economic operators in the total number of economic operators in Croatia, that the small economy accounts for 55% of the total number of employees. Once again, the highlighted results of a small economy achieved in 2005 according to data from financial reports, medium and large economic operators increased the consolidated financial result by 2 and a half times, and it was 2.4 billion kuna and small economic operators achieved a positive increase of more than 300 per cent from a negative consolidated financial result in 2004. According to FINA data covering only legal persons in 2005, 70,000 small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with 457 thousand employees achieved 200.9 billion kuna of total income. A significant increase is also recorded in the craft, and in the Republic of Croatia in 2003 there were 100 thousand 061 registered crafts with 138 thousand 582 employees and in 2005, there were 105 thousand 393 with 150 thousand 943 employees. It is good that the government is going with the proposal of this law, it is good that it goes into two readings and certainly that the adoption of this law will improve these economic indicators that we have continued to say. This law also regulates the following: the small-economic coverage is defined for the precise identification of the target group of small-scale operators, the criteria for the distinction between micro, small and medium-sized small-economic operators, the adoption of specific promotional measures for vocational education, retraining and the qualification of workers, i.e. the application of the principle of lifelong learning. Mandatory application of State aid rules is required when granting support. The availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia is clarified, the number of holders of the small economy development programme is increased, legal terminology is harmonised with the Law on Construction and the part-rounding of the central body of the state administration. This is the first law in Croatia to assess the impact of the Act on the economy where the impact of different definitions on a small economy, the Accounting Act, the Small Economy Encouragement Act on entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia is measured. The impact assessment has shown that the adoption of a European definition brings the greatest benefits to our entrepreneurs because a much larger number of businesses would enter into a system of support for small and medium-sized enterprises but therefore the stricter adoption of this law is harmonised by the definition of the Small Economy Encouragement Act with the definition of the Accounting Act. And the next phase is to bring both laws in line with the European Union guidelines. The European definition for the distinction between micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is not only a directive but a guideline for the countries of the European Union. We are in line with these amendments to the law with the European Union definition of defining the number of employees, business independence, annual income, property in micro-enterprises, while the criteria of the total annual income of assets for small and medium-sized enterprises are lower than the European Union recommendation. Once again, I support the adoption of this law in two readings. I am sure that the proposer will respect the opinions of all representatives and clubs that can improve the adoption of this law as well as the recommendation of the Competition Protection Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78567	Thank you. Mr. Hansel Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78568	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia! Here it was indeed necessary to adopt amendments to the Law on the Encouragement of the Small Economy and to define the frameworks of the existing law. It certainly needs to be pursued as effectively as possible by the Small Economy Encouragement Act as it is clear from all this data, and it is repeatedly highlighted in today's debate that it is necessary and necessary to strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurship precisely because this small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is both the most tough and the most resilient and first it adapts to all market conditions both at the level of the Republic of Croatia and at the level of the European Union. In this part, I am particularly pleased that, among other things, the number of holders of the small economy development programme is increasing, but also by tightening and controlling the incentive measures, as we will thus prevent any possible abuse of all those who have potentially used incentive measures without using those measures for which these measures were intended. What we will get in this case with amendments and amendments to the law, certainly a better environment for a small economy through the use of a common definition in accordance with the Accounting Act through improved statistical reporting, through the approximation of recommendations from the European Union, where we will receive, among other things, the possibility of using and those European funds, along with all the encouraging measures that the Republic of Croatia through the restoring ministries provides. In this part, it is certainly necessary to support the amendments and additions to the Small Economy Encouragement Act with a view to ultimately making it as simple as possible through second reading and this law as possible for all small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at the level of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78569	Does the Proposer's representative want to be final? Here you go. State Secretary Tajana Kesic Sapic. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't see any replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78570	Here, thank you very much. I thank you for all the suggestions and for this debate. Namely, I'd like to answer Mr. Poropat first. As far as the Competition Protection Agency is concerned, we cannot go to the Government without respecting the opinions of the Competition Protection Agency and their opinion is respected and is set out in Article 4 or Article 6 where it says that all the support provided for in this Act will be granted in accordance with the State aid rules, so that the part is resolved. As for the role of the HBOR in the Governing Council, we believe that we now have eleven members, and we believe that this is too much and it is quite ineffective, and we think that another member of the Management Board of the HAMG would not be necessary at this time to put it. As for the definition itself that determines micro-small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, we have not accepted the guidelines of the European Union which is far greater than this definition of the Accounting Act. That we remain on this definition where we are now in total statistical discrimination because at this point in the Republic of Croatia, two definitions were legally valid. One definition under the Small Economy Encouragement Act and another definition under the Accounting Act, and then we have a situation that when we are encouraged by entrepreneurs we cannot determine which category it belongs to because the Accounting Act has prescribed one definition and the Small Economy Encouragement Act is another. For that reason, at this point we found it appropriate to agree with the definition of accounting so that we could have statistical monitoring that at any moment we know how small, medium, micro or large enterprises are because at this moment when we had two definitions we had according to the Accounting Act, then we were collecting data from the FINA, then we were putting this definition of ourselves and we couldn't possibly get to the green branch with those definitions. Therefore, compliance with the Accounting Act is necessary at this point. As far as further harmonisation is concerned, whether we accept the European definition or not, it is now on us and in the debate. This will, of course, be said in the second stage, as at this stage, since all our partners were involved in this law, all our chambers. Also, an analysis has been made, as I have already mentioned, of the impact assessments that have shown us exactly how many large companies will fall into the category of medium-sized enterprises, how many medium-sized enterprises will fall into the category of small ones. We now have a situation to say under the current Small Economy Encouragement Act for micro-entities is defined as having up to ten employees. However, you may find a company with an incentive that has one employee and 17 million kunas of traffic. Is that a micro? It's not a micro. So we need to define precisely, exactly what limit can an entrepreneur get to, which doesn't mean that now as Mr. Pacek said about INA. In order to fall under the category of micro or medium-sized enterprises, it must meet two of the three criteria, which are the number of employees, total income or assets. So if it doesn't satisfy, if two criteria of three are not met, it can't be classified as a category so I don't think INA will be able to fall under a small company. Here, as far as I'm concerned, I'd like to look back on Mr. Pacek, as he said this is where the employment support is excluded. That's not true. They remain, they remain in the law in the second paragraph, meaning that, of course, support for employment yes but not in this form in which they were listed in the old law, in this current law. In the current law, they prescribed exactly how much some small and medium-sized entrepreneurs could get if they hired a new worker. However, these active and preventive employment measures are subject to the Employment Intermediation and Unemployment Rights Act and one of the activities of the Croatian Employment Service has just given such incentives to entrepreneurs of small, medium and large size for the employment of new workers in certain categories. But that doesn't rule out that we as a ministry, and now we have in our incentive measures, say, to encourage cluster development, we pay for, say, a cluster of managers, too, to an entrepreneur when he hires but by other criteria, means not according to those that are now in the law. The law does not exclude incentives for employment, however, but not in this percentage because the percentages have now changed. Now for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is a different percentage, so for small, medium and micro are different ratios, different percentages that can be allocated to new employees. As far as vertical and horizontal measures are concerned, I think there are also, what Mr. Assembly MP is, I can't remember exactly the names, Milinovic said there are nine central institutions in Croatia that encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship with 65 programmes. That's true. But how many more programs are being implemented through local self-government, through the county, through municipalities, through entrepreneurship centres. This number is not known, although each unit of local self-government and each county, according to the State aid Act, would have to deliver to the Competition Protection Agency within 15 days after it pays the support to an entrepreneur, within 15 days, it would have to provide the Agency with the name and name of entrepreneurs, businesses and the amount of support it received because, according to the rules, it means support relating to... These are support for small value up to 750 thousand kunas that one entrepreneur can receive in three years but they are added up, so now we have a situation to sum up at the central level how much one entrepreneur has received support in one, second or third ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the situation that units of local self-government and county do not report support so that we do not know whether an entrepreneur has already received, for example, the release of a municipal contribution to Bjelovar-Bilogorska County, and has also received support from the Ministry of Economy, for example, for a project. All the support should be summed up and all the sums of support must not exceed 750 thousand kuna. And I think it's another big problem that needs to be reconciled and the local self-government and county units take the seriousness and have to report that kind of support. I hope this law allows us to keep track of it. We have a lot of projects that we have run for, European Union projects, among other things, one PHARE for 2005 that will now be united, means that it will be a pooler of all support at central and local level to see in principle what are all the support provided by local self-government units and also by the ministries. Here I would like to thank everyone until the second reading if we find a common courtesy of the remarks of the distinguished parliamentary representatives we will do so, but if we cannot, if there is no alternative then we will not be able to do so. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78571	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78572	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting the assumption that actually it won't affect moving the income and property criteria because of the three criteria two must satisfy the entrepreneur. Well, Mrs. Shepic, you've increased two criteria. So you increased your income annually from 60 to 216 million kuna for a small entrepreneur and increased your assets from 30 to 100 and some million kuna. So you've made it possible for two criteria already if an entrepreneur achieves to be small. So Podravka, Pliva, I am rearranging again INA will be a small entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78573	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78574	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 79 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78575	We move to: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 575. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the adoption of this Act... The Rules of Procedure refer to the first reading of the law, and the debate was carried out: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on European Integration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Ms Vera Babic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honored MPs and honored MPs. Allow a few introductory sentences related to this bill. I will remind you that the current Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds began to apply in 2002. There were several novels in 2003 and 2004. As part of the implementation of the pension reform, this law established the functioning of compulsory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individualised capitalised savings. The holders of the newly established pension system are pension companies operating pension funds and pension insurance companies paying out pensions from compulsory and voluntary pension insurance. To date, 4 compulsory pension funds and 15 voluntary pension funds have been established and operated, with 6 open and 9 closed and one pension insurance company. The pension insurance obligations on the basis of individualised capitalised savings on 31 August 2006 included over a million and 293,000 insurance companies while voluntary pension insurance covered over 73,000 in 15 voluntary pension funds of which more than 63,000 in the open and slightly over 9,000 in closed voluntary pension funds. The four-year application of the law has shown the sustainability of systemic solutions as well as the need to build up individual institutes and adapt content, the nature of the capitalised pension system and the conditions of social and economic development of the country. The need to redecorate certain provisions has also been demonstrated in order to achieve greater accuracy and thus improve system feasibility. The proposed amendments to the law are also necessary for the sake of harmonisation and, above all, with the national legislative framework. I will remind myself of the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the novels of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance in Accounting, Investment Funds. But what is equally important, or perhaps more important, the proposed amendments and additions to the laws are also related to harmonising with the European acquis. It is about directives of the European Union that regulate several important areas; financial services, freedom of movement of capital, economic and monetary policy, freedom of movement of workers, and the achievement of the principle of equal treatment between men and women in social security professional systems, therefore, in voluntary pension insurance. And that is how we have tried to bring our legal institutes in this area into line with the acquiss of the European Union. So I'll remind you of several institutes that are important in these changes. The conditions for the establishment of new mandatory and voluntary pension funds are mitigated in such a way as to delete the current condition of the minimum number of members for the mandatory funds that is 50 000 and for the voluntary 200. It is considered that the number of Fund members should depend solely on the business policy of a pension society in terms of freedom of entrepreneurship and not on the subject of legal regulation. The applicable law lays down the conditions of good business of a pension society, the amount of capital required, the amount of guarantee deposit, the rules of risk management, and so on, thus achieving the financial stability of the pension society for the management and protection of the interests of its members, and that is satisfactory without the regulation of a minimum number of members. Furthermore, the Institute of Related Persons remains in the law in order to prevent the dominant influence of financial conglomerates or of one financial group or of a particular bank, but the definition of a related person through which shareholders or a group of shareholders holding more than 10% of the current 5% of the shares or ownership shares or rights in conflict-making is changed in accordance with European rules on related persons in the field of insurance in order to avoid conflicts of interest. Further arrangements shall be made for the easier and more efficient transition of the Fund members from one mandatory to the other. The issue of guaranteed contributions for members of the mandatory fund is more appropriate. The application of the law further pointed out the need for certain changes in the investment of the assets of pension funds in order to extend the possibility of investing in certain types of assets that have so far been impossible to invest and increased investment opportunities in assets outside the Republic of Croatia. The obligation to invest at least 50% of the compulsory pension fund's assets in long-term debt securities issued by the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank is retained because it is estimated that the accelerated full liberalisation of the capital market in this area could cause a disturbance in the entire economic system of Croatia. That is why it remains with a more conservative approach. The liberalisation of investments begins on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which is regulated by the transitional and final provision of this bill. Significant changes are proposed in the area of voluntary pension insurance. By harmonising the provisions of the law with European regulations governing the area of freedom of movement of workers and thus preserving their pension rights from additional pension systems, it is proposed to define new concepts relating to part of a voluntary pension system, to closed voluntary pension funds. The definition of an additional pension system, additional pensions, pension rights and pension rights granted is proposed. The concept of contributions to additional insurance and the notion of an outsourced worker. These are all important definitions that contain legal gains. Therefore, in order to avoid misunderstandings and in the application of our law, we consider these definitions important in the content of the law. In the part of the draft law relating to voluntary closed pension funds, cross-border payment of contributions shall be ensured in order to prevent the smooth use of the freedom of movement of workers and independent workers within the Member States of the European Union, i.e. European Economic Area. We believe that the adoption of this law will remove certain irregularities in the existing legislative framework, that the continuity and stability of the pension insurance system of individual capitalised savings will be maintained in order to bring individual institutes in line with economic developments, i.e. legal gains. And, in conclusion, allow me to perhaps avoid any misunderstandings in the debate. In particular, to highlight the issue of incentives for voluntary retirement, as you could see in the bill, it is proposed that the current system encourages the day of entry into full membership of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union and the incentives do not apply in the way it is governed by this law. This does not mean that the government is abandoning such an important system. However, if you have noticed in the strategic framework of development, it is particularly stressed that the government is defining to strengthen the system of both the second and third pillars, in particular the third pillar, which it considers to be also an incentive element of economic growth and development and stability other than social efficiency. So, I'm sure he won't give up on the encouragement. But what we think should be, which is that these solutions are within the tax policy system, to enable flexibility in determining these incentives in order to adapt them to certain needs to promote the long-term savings system, not that for any such change, we need to touch the system of this law. So we've offered this solution like this, and it's enough time to come up with this incentive system. So, in particular, I would like to stress that there is no misunderstanding. Surely, this system of voluntary pension savings will certainly be recognized as a very important segment of our economic and social structure. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78577	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78578	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we heard from the presentation of the Government's representatives, which is actually a novelty, and which is why these amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds are being adopted. As said in '99. they passed laws, and they entered into force in 2002. However, in the meantime, to this day there have been changes and changes to some in the adoption of the law with us, the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency, the Law on Contributions, the Accounting Act, the Investment Funds Act. Therefore, even because these laws were passed later than the Law on Voluntary and Mandatory Pension Funds came into force, it is necessary to comply with these new laws that I say came into force later. What is important is that we also bring these changes into line with the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, all those directives already mentioned on the free movement of capital, free movement of workers, monetary and economic policy and financial services of all kinds, etc. What is important is to remind and what is said to be a retirement society. So these laws our pension societies run these funds. So we have four mandatory funds and 15 voluntary funds. So, 4 funds that regulate the popular second pillar with a million and two hundred ninety-three thousand and one hundred and sixty-one insurance records on August 31st this year. In the third pillar, there are 73207 thousand insurance companies. Of which, 64483 in open funds and 9724 in closed funds. It has been said that these laws actually amend and supplement these changes, which should actually be regulated. New definitions are also introduced in this law, which are definitions which specifically mention the personal account, temporary account, Institute of Related Persons, then an additional pension system, additional pension, contribution to additional pension insurance, as well as the notion of an outsourced worker. The clarification is also more precise for the custodial banks as well as for the obligations it has. The notion of future contracts also emphasises that for the sake of protection of the fund, up to 30% can be available in these contracts through funds. Secondly, the possibility of voluntary societies being able to establish and manage voluntary pension societies now can be re-established and managed by several voluntary funds. It is a newspaper, and what is even more important is that cross-border activity is also possible in both establishment and governance. That's the news the secretary of state just pointed out. These amendments and additions to the law also clarify the role of the Financial Services Supervisory Agency which has a stronger role to play in these transactions, which will also be tied over, in cross-border activities. A minimum number of members is also abolished, as has been said. So everything depends on how the funds have capital and the number is no longer a limiting factor. The possibility of investing funds is also expanded, so as I have already said in assets outside the Republic of Croatia with this so-called The second pillar can go up to 5% in risk investments and the third pillar to 10%. The obligation remains that the liabilities of the second pillar must be invested with at least 50% of the capital in long-term and debt securities of the Republic of Croatia as well as the National Bank of Croatia. So what is more important to stress is that the third pillar's incentives are abolished. And that's the danger that can actually question the general existence of voluntary funds if there's no incentive, no stimulation, it can simply be shut down. But as we have heard from the secretary of state and, if it is envisaged and suspended, not all possible other incentive measures that the Republic of Croatia will have in mind to preserve in some way the existence of voluntary funds or, above all, the third pillar. In this new proposal, amending and supplementing the law is also particularly regulated by law because the special law regulates open funds and special closed funds. So in a way and in a legal sense, jurisdiction has been separated. Therefore, for the purpose of these changes and changes, the pension system has to be maintained as it is, to maintain its stability, to specify more precisely the legal provisions in a way. And what is already said, which is a danger, are these two large newspapers that now a voluntary pension fund, so the second and third pillars can be invested outside the Republic of Croatia. And that other newspaper that actually the place of residence is no longer decisive in voluntary insurance, that voluntary insurance can also be joined by people who do not live in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in addition to all these in some way and the dangers arising from this in some way of opening up when it comes to the property of pension funds as long as these voluntary ones and the opening of the register of non-citizens, people who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia believe that, with the precise role of both the Agency and all the legal regulations that are likely to follow next year, that the stability of our pension funds will be preserved in some way. Therefore, the HDZ club supports the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78579	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78580	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. I am not sure that all representatives of the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill. I'm not voting for him. The rest of you, act on your conscience. Namely, this law bears the label P.Z.E. And when you read it, it looks pretty good. Coordination, strengthening the Agency's functions, security. However, something that does not bear the P.Z.E. mark, and we have in Croatia and in this law there is no one to read, but directly refers to the application of this law, which is the fact that we in Croatia have one regulation, and unfortunately a collective contract that speaks of the lowest basis for paying for contributions. From '98. For years, instead of a collective contract on minimum wage or guaranteed salary, since '98. the same text in force acknowledges that the minimum wage is what the State determines and as the lowest basis for paying mandatory contributions. As of next year, if I follow the official data correctly, that lowest base is 2 thousand 298 kuna. 40% of persons employed in Croatia in the pension system are registered on the lowest basis for payment of mandatory contributions. And Croatian employers pay their workers a 20% pension contribution on the lowest basis. They will pay from the new year to 2 thousand 298 kuna. This means that the pension contribution will be for such an employee of 459 kuna. And now I come to Article 198 of the Amendment and the Supplement relating to Article 58 of the Law which improves the status of those in the second pillar of pension insurance and says that each member of the Mandatory Pension Fund shall be guaranteed the contribution of the pension fund at the level of the reference contribution established by the Agency minus 6 percentage points. In paragraph 2, it says if the pension fund did not ensure that up to 50% of the underlying capital was paid out of it, and that is not enough to pay the difference out of the state budget. The basic fund for the establishment of the pension fund is 40 million kuna. So pension funds can or must, by the letter of this provision, then amount to a maximum of 20 million for the guaranteed contribution. If that's not enough, the state budget comes in because they're guaranteed. But what's the problem? If 40% of workers are registered on the lowest basis which is unfortunately the lowest salary in Croatia in this generation column, i.e. in individualised capital savings from these 459 kuna contributions goes 114 kuna, 25% of that. Multiply that by 12 months that's a thousand and thirty-eight kuna a year. So every month in one, the worker receives a regular salary, the employer pays a contribution for him, and he earns an individual savings of EUR 378 per year and thus pays 30 years. That's 41 thousand 364 kuna. Let's capitalize that savings with 50% above the guaranteed yield. That's 60 grand, 62,000. And that employee has been a useful pension for 10 years. When we divide those 60 grand into 10 years, every month they'll get a pension from the second pillar of 500 kuna. It's Christmas Eve for this year, about. And if it comes out of generation solidarity according to the regulations that are in force, the system after 2009, the entire working life basically for the calculation, with this basis that is prescribed, will be 980 kuna and the total pension amounts to a thousand 480 kuna. This is guaranteed by Article 19 of amending and supplementing the law and nothing more. Why am I warning you this? This is a harmonisation with the acquis of Europe, but Europe has something else, no payouts under the table. There's not one application, there's no payout. There are no minimum bases but there is a category of salaries, punishment and closure of employers who do not respect it. And there the worker doesn't have to control and struggle to find out what amount the employer pays him a pension contribution and he knows it. And he's sure he can't be fooled and deceived here. That's the problem. That we do not change this second part of the system and on that second part of the system we do not have P.Z.E., and according to the reasons in Croatia, it is from 31 August this year in II. There were millions of 293,000 insurance companies, and only 73,000 went into voluntary retirement insurance. So those who have money to pay for their age, only 73,000. And those who are at 2 thousand 298 kuna have no money for III. A post of voluntary security, he won't even have it. For ten years, Croatia has been struggling with debt compensation until 98th, we are now in the phase of finding a solution and what to do with those new pensioners after 1.1.99. Now I point to the third problem that we are aware of today, and if we make this legal, but we really don't fix the system that follows before this provision is applied, the next assembly will deal with the third category of pensioners that will be abolished and that will be terrible. This law also provides for an amendment to Article 69, which is Article 27, which amends the conditions under which pension funds can also be invested abroad. Not only the members of the European Union and the OECD. In my explanation, it says: "The novelty would be the possibility of investment in the so-called Risk capital which represents the collection of money through investment funds for companies which are unable to collect it from traditional sources of funding, credit institutions and stock exchanges, and in order to invest in new technologies, development, increase trade capital and expansion of companies, strengthen company balances, buy other companies for restructuring and change of ownership structures, the possibility of buying companies employed abroad." Yes, there are limits to 5% of the assets for compulsory pension funds and 10% of voluntary pension funds. But only a few days behind us is when the pension funds that currently have potential somewhere around 3 billion kunas that they can and could have invested in securities had no priority on buying shares of INA. We did not give priority to the pension funds, by the government's decision to engage 3 billion Croatian pensioners' capital in a priority sense in the INA stock, a profitable company. And now we are expanding the possibility of capital going beyond Croatia's borders into so-called investment in the so-called Risk capital is this more security for Croatian pension funds. Is it possible that the announced INA privatisation model will also apply to some other companies where we will not give priority to Croatian pension funds again, but we refer them to countries of risky business outside the European Union. I know that this provision because of the European Union as a candidate for members of the European Union is a harmonisation, but I am not sure that Europe obliges us to allow pension funds to invest in risk capital in Azerbaijan. And if, therefore, we now know that the Government will implement the privatisation of the following companies according to the INA model, which is good, public and transparent, and in the meantime we do not ensure that the priorities of Croatian voluntary pension funds and compulsory pension funds, that this huge 3 billion kuna placement, which, according to my data, is currently available, are invested there and therefore Croatian citizens indirectly become owners of these companies, then I claim that the consequences of the application of this law will not be P.Z.E. And we simply won't be able to call it an individualised, capitalized savings anymore than a collective decapitated deception. Because if after 30 years of capitalised savings we get a pension of 500 kuna a month, then it's really not what we expected. I'm not saying, I didn't even ask anyone, that maybe the government hadn't already prepared a complete reform of the system of basics for payment of contributions. And that the Government will not, and that it will leave the system of collective agreement of 98 on minimum wage and propose a minimum wage law and that it will propose a system in which no more employer will be able to cheat on the state or pension funds or workers at the base for payment, not only pension but also health contributions and employment contributions. And all the governments since 98 have missed this area regulated. And all of the governments since 98. The secret is that on the one hand we say that we don't have money in pension funds and they're running away from all of us. And I repeat, 40% of Croatian workers are currently registered in the pension system on a minimum basis for payment of contributions. 40% of a million and a half people. They're not civil servants and deputies, they're not people who work in local self-government and banks. They're people who work in the private sector. We talked about encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship of crafts and crafts. Now, let's have an ideal chance to talk about encouraging workers to be employed in the sector. Otherwise, it's on us because we didn't respond in time. I don't know if anyone here wants to help me discuss this shouting, but then I'd be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78581	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78582	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As usual, very important topics on the agenda are at the end of the working hours, but it will also remain to be recorded as one of the possibilities for such topics to be placed in the earlier hours. So regarding this topic, we at the HSS Club have been very serious and, I would say, have consciously studied all the materials that have been available to us and concluded that we still need to remind ourselves of two essential elements or two important dates or elements that are important to us for discussion under this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. The first is, of course, the adoption of the ZOM and application from 1.1.99 when it starts to apply to all insurance companies and we can freely say that the rights already acquired are not respected and new pensioners appear. It's been quiet for a long time, and the other didn't want to talk about new pensioners, but here we are, aware that they exist as one very serious category of people. There's a lot of them. Since 2002, there has been application of the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, but it applies only to insurance companies under the age of 45. So, for generations, I deliberately put this as a prelude because I'm saying that a series of generations of insurance companies won't be able to provide themselves with acquired rights as some of their colleagues who were at a certain time somewhat younger or somewhat older. According to us at the time, and now we think insurance companies had to get or retain acquired rights, and pension reform would apply to those levels of insurance that could consume all the rights of the new pension system. Then we wouldn't have generations and generations of new pensioners and their unequal position compared to the old pensioners. I repeat, all those older insurance companies who could not exercise the rights of the second pillar of the pension system do not clearly have the same rights as other younger insurance companies. What's our overall status? We certainly have a gradual ageing population, a growing number of pensioners and fewer and fewer employees who contribute to their pensions. These are all changes that have led to a change in the damage of future pensioners. I do not believe that any government will launch faster economic development and increase employment so much that they can help pensioners in this way. This means that by force the country will take less and less care of future pensioners. That's unfortunately the reality. According to some studies, only 27% of the population saves a share of their income. Most of it barely ends with the end, and a quarter of the population with their incomes cannot survive. They fall on the burden of children, social care or something. If the insurance company is closer to retirement today, he found that pensions would be largely too small for a decent life. Will the second and third pillar fix it? Unfortunately, according to already available information and data, it's hardly likely that, primarily I'm talking about the second pillar, it's going to make some significant shift. We know the funds are too small. What did the bill say? First of all, he mentions three important starting points that led to changes and additions to this Law. First of all, I will try to quote at least part of it, where it is said that the current application has shown the sustainability of system solutions, but also the need to upgrade individual institutes and adapt to the content and nature of the capitalised pension system. This certainly is always useful when the need for upgrading and better solutions is shown. Secondly, harmonising the provisions of the law with a series of laws in the meantime and amending and supplementing certain laws, in itself, is understood and it is always useful to do so. Thirdly, the harmonisation of the law with the European acquis to the area of financial services, freedom of movement of capital, economic and monetary policy and freedom of movement of workers is mentioned. So, on the one hand, we are saying that we want to in some way comply with the European acquis, but here we also mention a comparison with some standard or standard of living of similar categories of people in the European Union and with us. Unfortunately, it is difficult or almost impossible to compare. I will not say that already today, pensioners have more than 50% less pensions than the average pensioner in the European Union, and if it continues with this trend, it will have only 30%, and it will have equal needs, equal prices, and a third, only a third of pensions as a pensioner in the European Union. It is certainly necessary for us, and in Europe already knows the entire system of protection, savings and investment, and such similar efforts are being made in Croatia. Of course, each of these parts of the system has a role to play and should be complemented together even though they are sometimes unfortunately competition. Our reality is still very different. Too few Croatian citizens have some significant funds in the system. Today, we can only conclude that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have, apart from the exceptions, found themselves in this situation without systematically built savings and protection. Indeed today it would take a few hundred thousand kunas for each of us to welcome a peaceful age. This is not easy to come by, especially not for the unemployed and the retired, and there is a lot of concern in our country. And when we talk about the age system, then every link of that system should be firm and strong, and we today can agree and disagree with me we still have a pillar of three weak link in which the third pillar or voluntary retirement insurance is based on the individualised savings of the weakest link. Only 73,000 207 insurance companies are covered, and we find it a little strange that this speaker also says that there is no need to discuss it so much, that regardless of how much it is predicted to enter the European Union and actually apply by entering the European Union to create a system. This system of waiting, unfortunately, shows us increasingly poor solutions, and that makes it unclear why it is waiting with incentives. It's not much stronger and second-degree link. I've already said that this 5% stake is unfortunately too small, it's obvious, and also fund management in this way will not God know how much to fertilize these funds. She proved it, and we're not going to elaborate, she's been saying something about it before. All of this in itself, of course we're not talking about this pension with generation solidarity because they're already proven too little, and then that link of that system is obviously weak. All of this in itself means the ineffectiveness of the entire pension system. It will also not be possible to talk about the real application of the entire pension system while there will be payouts on black, while there will be no more systematic care for older and powerless people who were insurance workers one day, and now they are pensioners. All in all, it would cheer us up perhaps a certain item in the second reading of this bill, where it would start as soon as possible, especially speaking for a volunteer, for this third pillar or voluntary retirement insurance, so that, with some of these remarks, we will see how it will be in the second reading, and then we will give or not give support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78583	Thank you. And an individual debate, Mr. Stephen Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78584	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am before I begin my presentation I must say that I fully agree with Mr. Lesar in the part where he talks about these minimum contributions that are the way they are. They are the result in this first pillar of such low pensions, but today they are taking the whole working life, or 31 years, here almost the whole working life is taken and these are the significant assets that enter there and that is why pensions are the way they are. As regards this second pillar of the compulsory capitalised savings rate and the free payment of the third pillar of pension insurance, voluntary pension insurance, I support this proposal here given here because it mainly refers to improved solutions, and also because the proposed amendments and amendments to the law need to be brought into line with the European Union. It means this is where it goes together. I also like it here, too, this voluntary retirement society that has a lot of limitations, there's a lot of things to say that needs to be done to make it work. So such a retirement, voluntary retirement society can work for several of these legal entities so that it is quite well regulated in my opinion. He's talking about a lot of things, and the only thing I don't really understand here is why a procurator can't be a member of representing a retirement society, but he's responsible about it, and he's the top one there. So this procurator should be a very important person. I don't get it. Maybe I'm wrong. It also speaks of everything that must be and that accounting must be conducted in particular, that each must have its own account and a number of other things. I also like this article in 58, where this value of payment of these contributions is regulated in a way that it cannot, the value of it cannot fall so all that is given there is positive, only to me it's strange, says 20% of the underlying capital, and... this needs a budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know how it's imagined, I don't really understand because there's a lot of it said here and there's a lot of it here. Now, especially here, it's not regulated, it's a retirement, it's not a legal framework yet. So, you're still calculating pensions, that's not there. We haven't had anyone to retire before, who paid first, second and third degree. We haven't had one yet. So that's where we're just about to have a real fight to make all this happen, because by passing that law, then there's gonna be real fights, real fire around it. Let's see how much that pension can be and how it can be. I agree completely that we need to see what the lowest contribution we should pay, which is the minimum wage because if that salary is, I don't know what it is now, if it's 2,000, I don't know how many kunas, then it's really minimum and this amount he's going to pay is going to be minimal and normal that these pensions are going to be minimal. Here's this problem that's here in the first pillar, I'm going back a little bit, and on that first pillar, it's pretty important, we need a lot of it to fix. We can still do this in walking and improve because all of this that's being valorized here is positive about it so that there's still a lot that can be fixed. Some legal solutions can be made to make these contributions significantly greater. And here we have to see those who are calculating already retired, maybe it's not a full-time job, that it's not 31 years old, because the real data actually doesn't have, and these contributions that are there are very low. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78585	Thank you very much. And finally, State Secretary Mrs Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the participants in the debate. Your thoughts, therefore, are critical considerations that will certainly help us to work out a final proposal. But allow me just a few clues regarding your discussion. Mr. Lesar, you mentioned risky investments, so you referred to a problem called risk investments. If you notice in the explanation is used the mark so-called. risk investments. It is therefore that the capital market must be freed in the sense that investments cannot be just government bonds. In this respect, investments in some other forms of investment may be considered risky in relation to government bonds but in no case is the risk of a loss related to investment for pension funds. Of course, whenever it comes to the pension insurance system, I'm aware that we can't bypass the return to the first pillar, however, you're a Mr. Representative, he's gone now in the Sabata Hall, he's saying something, he pointed out the problem of the demographic structure of society. Be assured that the demographic structure of the population, economic growth and development must have been a cause and a necessary framework for access to reform of the pension system. Understandably, there is still a transition period related to the reform. Its effects are in some way already visible in one part. There will probably be a need for some finishings but it is certain that the basic parameters and the basic set system that will prove I am convinced of the long-term good. So, the problem that Mr. Lesar also spoke about regarding the gray economy, of course, cannot be solved by this law, but I will remind you of the government's programme to curb the gray economy where, among other things, a lot of things are focused and a lot of instruments aimed at making the pay a basis, so not a minimum basis for insurance. We agree with that, and we'll take it, we'll take measures. You know that the issue of the gray economy is not easy to solve, but in any case, the government is committed and its programme is aimed at curbing the gray economy. Therefore, that part will certainly be dealt with in parallel with with this law. In any case, I would like to conclude, thank you for your contributions to the completion of the final proposal, which will probably help this final bill be adopted in this House of Commons and be a good instrument for strengthening our pension system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78587	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78588	I'm correcting Mrs. Secretary of State's allegations that this extension of the right to investment in so-called. the risk investment refers only to the change in not only the state shares. In particular, Article 27, points 8, 9 and 10 give the pension funds the right to quote: "Investing in long-term bonds or other long-term debt securities from foreign countries, foreign non-state entities, foreign shareholders of the European Union and the OECD." Therefore, the right to invest, the possibility of investing this bill extends to abroad, and not only to the state portfolio but to a share company outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78589	Thank you very much. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78590	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. I'm giving the vote a conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. Unanimity with 79 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78591	We move to the agenda point - Proposal for a Law on Asylum - first reading, P.Z.E. No. 573 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law have been applied in the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78592	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! I would only briefly like to explain the changes that occurred in relation to the existing law. The existing Law on Asylum entered into force on 01 July 2004, and after its application, we saw certain non-problems, i.e. non-compliance with the conventions and directives of the United Nations or the European Commission, and the basic reason for the adoption of this law was to correct the shortcomings that we have seen in applying and harmonising with the directives and conventions of the European Union or the United Nations. I will try briefly to say the most important changes that have occurred in the draft of this law in relation to the existing law. In fact, this bill introduces the so-called so-called law. Subsidiary protection and it applies to asylum seekers who threaten the death penalty or execution in the country of origin, torture, inhumane or destructive treatment and punishment and serious individual threats to life... general violence in institutions but do not meet the conditions for asylum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The two-degree resolution of asylum applications is then also introduced. Now there was a condition that we had three degrees. The first was the administrative procedure of the police administration, then the appeal to the commission and finally the complaint to the Administrative Court. In order to make this asylum request procedure as short, simple and effective as possible, this procedure is introduced through two stages where the complaint is also a final instance for the administrative court to resolve the asylum application. It also introduces a unique procedure and in connection with these subsidiary protections. So, at the same time, it is resolved at the asylum request and the right of the asylum seekers to meet the requirements of subsidiarity protection is checked. It is also due to this merger and because we have two degrees in solving the introduction and the accelerated procedure so that these asylum requirements are resolved within reasonable deadlines for asylum seekers or for avoiding unnecessary costs for Croatia. The harmonisation of certain provisions has also been carried out so that, moreover, under the proposal of this law, asylum is not treated as a right to be recognised but as a protection granted. It also allows asylum seekers the right to work if their request is not resolved within a year and the right to education for asylum seekers and secondary education is extended, so far it has been for primary education only. Free legal assistance is regulated to asylum seekers in a secondary procedure and the notion of a safe country of origin is introduced in order to be precisely defined in which countries asylum seekers can return safely without danger to their lives. The definition of family members and the right to join the family of asylum seekers and foreigners under temporary protection shall be extended, the right to work of foreigners under temporary protection, infringements shall be imposed for asylum seekers who abuse the provisions on the restriction of freedom, the obligation of asylum seekers to participate in the costs of accommodation if they are making their incomes or if they are employed and the conditions of detention of asylum seekers at the border or in the transit area of airports or maritime ports are prescribed until the end of the procedure. These are the most important changes proposed in relation to the existing Asylum Act. I can say that the experience and practice of implementing the Law on Asylum and the former and this which has been applied since 1 July 2004 has shown that Croatia is not an attractive destination for foreigners who would try to abuse the right to seek asylum. Since 1997, a total asylum in Croatia has been sought by 707 people. Of these 707 people, as you know two weeks ago, the first person and received asylum in Croatia, so there is no real fear as it was announced when the law was passed in 2004 that the adoption of such a law would be a cause for mass arrival. It is clear that most of these foreigners seeking asylum in Croatia were motivated primarily by economic reasons. So, they were economic migrants, not asylum seekers who were persecuted in their countries, in their countries, and for that reason, everyone except this one case two weeks ago was negatively solved and in control of the OSCE and other international organisations and institutions there were no objections to resolving these requirements. This shows that this current law has been relatively good and that the authorities of the Ministry of the Interior have also properly implemented it by taking care of the humane treatment of persons seeking asylum in the Republic of Croatia but also by taking care of the interests of the Republic of Croatia that asylum is not necessarily granted to persons who are primarily economic migrants. And yet again in conclusion, we believe that if this law is adopted in this proposed text, we will raise the asylum system in the Republic of Croatia to an even higher level, bring it into line with the requirements and acts, the documents of the European Union, and indeed ensure humane treatment with persons who are persecuted in their countries because of politics, race, skin color and other political reasons, while at the same time providing them with a correct procedure to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78593	Thank you very much. Does he want to? Yeah. Representative of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System Drazen Bošnjaković. Meanwhile, a report by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities came. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78594	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held at the 69th session on 28 November 2006 discussed the proposal for an asylum law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 10 November 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of a law allowing for the implementation of Article 33. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the legislation of the Republic of Croatia shall comply with the legislation of the European Union. On a proposal from the law, the members of the Committee made the following comments. It is proposed that the definition of asylum indicates that Croatia is the same character as the sanctuary. It is necessary to consider whether the concept of refugees involves all persons referred to in Article 4 of the Law. Article 22 should be clarified with a possible reference provision to the powers laid down in the Police Act. The debate supports a solution on free legal assistance by proposing that it also applies to aid in the process before the ministry. It is also indicated that free legal aid is free of charge only for asylum seekers and costs and assistance should be included in the proposal's assessment of the necessary means to implement the law. The bill uses the term accelerated procedure and is proposed to use the term shortened procedure in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia instead. It is necessary to review the solution set out in Article 33 of the Law that Croatian Caritas can lead educational, educational and similar programmes at the shelter because in this case this right should also be recognised by other organisations based on other religious definitions. The deadline of one year in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia should adopt a list of safe countries of origin and a list of safe third countries has been assessed as too long as it affects the implementation of the law. It is suspected that the penalty provided for in Article 99 may be applied to a person who leaves the Republic of Croatia during the course of the proceedings. The opinion is also expressed that the proposed penalty for the frequent violation of the provisions of the home order is too high. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: the proposal for an asylum law is adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78595	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78596	Dear Mr Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues are before us one proposal, a modern proposal for an asylum law that has adopted all those modern solutions as they are in Europe but also a developed world to confirm the democratic commitment of the principles and freedoms of principle that should apply in every civilised state itself. Therefore, the absolute Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will fully accept this bill. It is systematic, it is a logical sequence of actual efforts, all the efforts of the entire judicial system to in one legal way ensure and strengthen exactly the efficiency that should be in these cases. In particular, in the third chapter of the procedural provision, it is important to highlight the start of the procedure, how is it implemented? The importance that it is important and important to listen to asylum seekers who will answer all the questions in truth. The asylum seeker is also required to personally attend the hearing, whether there is a legal representative or a power of attorney, and also a tax-listing in these procedural provisions is not simply intended to speed up the whole process. It's about that, but it's not just about that. There is already one first-degree decision, so the first-degree decision taken by the Ministry, either granting asylum or rejecting it or rejecting it and approving the subsidiary protection it also belongs to in this case as a whole. They therefore seemed to me to have unfounded suggestions or suggestions from some of our associations or centres because they obviously did not study well enough because they pointed out that not conducting an asylum seekers hearing is contrary to the principles on which the General Administrative Procedure Act rests. In fact, right here in the law there is a very clear and taxing list of how this procedure should be done? It was also used what should be repeated once again that while another asylum seeker had not received asylum to have the right to work in the first year, to have the right to protection. And all of this in their own, in their provisions of budget forecasts and respective ministries so that we can truly say with certainty that the rights and obligations of foreigners under... They also have the right to stay, as well as basic means of living and accommodation, so health care, primary and secondary education, information on rights and obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Work, family reunion is particularly stressed, family reunion. Freedom of religion and religious education of children. The foreigner, under temporary protection, also exercises his right to work in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. Health care, this includes emergency medical care and the necessary treatment of the disease and for particularly vulnerable groups and other necessary assistance. Also the right to education, primary and secondary education and retraining, qualifications under the same conditions as Croatian citizens. It is particularly important to reiterate my request for family integration, which is submitted by a foreigner whose member of the family wants to come to the Republic of Croatia. Also in cases where separate family members enjoy temporary protection in different countries when family reunions will take into account the interests of family members. It is also particularly important to highlight the provision that information on rights and obligations should be made known and made aware of the rights and obligations of the parties under temporary protection and immediately within a short period of time assumed in a language which the stranger will understand. In particular, the powers that arise under this Law should be highlighted. Furthermore, criminal provisions and transitional and final provisions under which provisions this law enter into force on 1 July 2007 until all matters can be regulated and prescribed, as the legislator does in this proposal, as the legislator points out in this proposal. Therefore, this Law should certainly be adopted by this Proposal for a Law with all those modern achievements that have been adopted in the developed part of the world and Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78597	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As my colleague Peronja said, we have before us a modern law of a completely wrong name. The law is called the Asylum Act, it should be called the Asylum Act. Of course, it is not only a matter of reading the Croatian Constitution in which the word asylum is not mentioned in any letter, but it is mentioned in the article that I do not know exactly the 34th or 36th. Most of the time, there's a safe haven. It's not just a matter of formal respect for the letters of the Constitution and the letters of the law. Why do we use foreign words? So we can get emotionally away from what we're talking about. Every nation lives through its own language. The word refuge is a warm place where we receive someone who is offended, humiliated, hurt, threatened, who he wants to kill, whom he wants to slaughter, whom he wants to destroy. It's a sanctuary. The word asylum is a hut in a field surrounded by barbed wire mainly with mud around which man or animal can be held. We're talking about animal asylum, right? It doesn't give the same emotional connotation. Let's call things what they really are. Then we can treat the letter differently and the spirit of the law. Then we'll see who's really in that place. What are those people doing here? Why did they come? And because we, by some basic civilizational decrees, are bound to provide them because they are human, because they have fled from where they are terrible, where they are horrified. It has not been so long since the Croats had to flee in a similar way. Well, let's remember that. It's not that hard to imagine. If that's how we look at the problem, then the question arises, and why are we not attractive to call under quotes why Croatia is not an attractive country for asylum seekers? Maybe partly because of this attitude. Perhaps partly because of the lack of public action or media, or through state bodies to sensitize the public, the centre of non-acceptance by the population is moving there. You don't know where he'll be. He's being guarded by the police. I don't know if the army might be watching over him, who's keeping him safe. People don't accept that. Why? Because they understand asylum this other way. They don't take it as a neighbor's place, they're supposed to help a man, but they take it as a place where some freaks from strange countries who have strange customs and better off not having to deal with them. So much for the general spirit. The law is modern. It respects most of what the European Conventions and the World Final Conventions, the United Nations Conventions provide for this area. But it seems to me that in some segments it doesn't go far enough and it's not enough so I can say enough humane. She doesn't really accept the state of things. See, Article 28 discusses free legal assistance for asylum seekers but only in a secondary procedure. The Azilants can get legal aid to write them a complaint to the Administrative Court. So, if the first-degree body of the ministry refused them. This is how they will present their case to the ministry, so the first - degree body depends on it and on the translator if they find people of an adequate translator. This is not in line with the concept of refuge as places where helpless people need help. Some things are strangely defined, and I think we should at least explain them if we don't fix them completely. Article 8 states that asylum cannot be given to one who poses a danger to the society or security of the Republic of Croatia by pre-deciding exactly what someone had to do without being able to obtain asylum, and this remains as a general formulation which I assume remains in the authority of a civil servant who will assess, defuse and say that someone poses a danger to society or the security of the Republic of Croatia. Article 17 speaks of translators, and it is stated that they will be provided in case, in any way, a translator of the same sex is possible. Why is that completely unclear to me? I understand that these people come from other civilizational environments. It's all clear. But they come looking for asylum here where it doesn't matter. And if they've already come to seek asylum here, then they'll either accept such civilized ways of conduct because that's because we don't know sexual discrimination or they don't. Articles 18 and 19 refer to minors aged 16 to 18 who are required to have tutors under all our laws. They should have someone who represents them in front of them, the guardian. Thank you, here's another side word. Someone who represents them in front of state and judicial authorities. It's clear to me again that these people come from countries where they get married and when they're 10, 12, they have children when they're 15. But according to our laws and European laws, adulthood is 18 years old. They're underage until they're 18. Why don't we treat them here condescendingly? I don't know. Article 21 states that asylum seekers, so people who have come to seek refuge here must not participate in activities contrary to the Constitution and international law, etc. Croatian citizens can't do that either. No one can do that. Whoever does this goes to jail. Therefore, it seems pointless to me that it is in law. It is good that Article 26 provides for and provides training especially for primary school and secondary school education for asylum seekers and their children. It's great that they go to courses, according to this law they go to Croatian language courses. It is bad that other foreigners who come to Croatia do not legally attend Croatian language courses, which people who are employed here as managers of large companies, as hotel managers do not speak Croatian, do not attend Croatian language courses. These go to Croatian language courses. It's a good thing they're going, but it's a good thing they're going, too. There are no hearings in the accelerated procedure under Article 47. The procedure is shortened, I guess it doesn't have to be accelerated, you don't have to go through it any faster. It's just been cut short. But I don't think basic civilization norms allow someone to talk about and decide without being close to him. A man whose fate is decided would have to be present no matter what the case is. Article 66 states that these percentages are not public and that insight into the process can have UNHCR, I do not know if anyone else in this country can have insight into the process. Is it possible that anyone in this House can have insight into this process? Could the Attorney General have any insight into this process or anyone else? I don't know. It seems to me that it is not good for the procedure to be closed at the Ministry of the Interior and that no one on the outside actually has the possibility that anyone from Croatia has the ability to see the process. Everything in the law is necessary. The Croatian People's Party will also vote for a second reading. But in the second reading, we won't vote unless the name of the law changes. And the title then follows certain consequences in the text, which should emotionally bind us to these people because these people are perfectly certain to deserve a deeper emotional engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78599	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Kramarić. Or was it dancing?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78600	No, it's not. I don't normally like to be petty, but today we already have two short lectures on Croatian. And in the end, you wouldn't even be saying this to an esteemed colleague if I didn't actually feel a little bit called a man who understood something about it. I'm afraid that, in fact, with the best wishes, and of course the colleague doesn't belong to these turkeys, they're little, so we narrow down that actually vocabulary of Croatian. You see how hard it is, a tutor isn't a foreign word, she's home. Just like grammar is not a foreign word. High school's not a foreign word either. And it shouldn't take so much passion to talk about it right now, so then, in the end, it's about emotional connotations, and you can say some others. Iconations could be translated and connotations could be translated. So it would still not be good if this House had already heard twice today with some lessons and justified and some things were standing but still not so much and would not want, I say I would not want it to remain this bitter impression that in 2006 we are working on a vocabulary or a dictionary of Croatian language starting to throw out words that really behave like Croatian, and no one is seeing them as foreign. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78601	Mr. Vladimir Stengl, also the correction. Replica, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78602	Thank you. I think it's still the right thing to do. Look, with all due respect to that beautiful word "house" I, as an exile, sought refuge, did not seek asylum, I sought refuge in Croatia. Inside your country. And I think that should make a difference. Also, even an example of Croats from Srijem, Bake, etc. who came to Croatia, they sought refuge. Let's leave that asylum for those who come from the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78603	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78604	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let us first of all remember that we have the Asylum Act and that it came into force as I remember 1.7.2004. That, in addition to having entered into force, it has been elaborated by a special regulation that regulates actually asylum-seeking issues and procedures, secondary procedure, appeal procedure, and the issue of medical and medical examination, etc., etc. Therefore, there is a reasonable possibility that this real law now even though it has a P.Z.E. code. There is no need to go into an emergency procedure but to go to first reading, and in fact it does not only bring our law in line with the new decisions of the European Union that it has in its legal regulations, but among other things, and some of the issues that have been addressed by this Regulation and implementing regulations are now being incorporated practically into the law. In this respect, however, we from the SDP will certainly support the need to pass this law and we will support the need to, on the one hand, be as detailed as possible, as precisely as possible, to regulate these rights, but not at any cost to asylum seekers or even less to the harm of the national and state interests of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, we consider this to be an extremely important law, very important. It regulates human rights and freedoms, and not only because in Article 33, not in 34, as some mentioned in the Constitution that foreign citizens have, they can receive refuge in the Republic of Croatia, yes, etc. And for certain deeds when it comes to their persecution. So we will support the need to pass this law, but we believe that, independently of that, this law can and should be further completed before the final statement on it, or the final vote on it, in the final draft of the law. In this regard, allow us to make some of our remarks that could be on the line of improvement of that bill. Some will be referred to as principled nature or may have their own dimension of principled nature, some of which are of course individual nature. First of all, they enter the sphere of legislative and judicial proceedings. However, some of the issues that we will mention as individual examples have their own both economic and social but also human legal dimension. So let me get this straight. First, we believe that the proposed solution to regulate legal protection against the first-degree solution brought against the Court of Justice is not in some way in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, in Article 18 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the party has the right to appeal against a first-degree decision which can be ruled out exclusively by law. And we put the rule here. She's off right now. So there's no appeal, but it's going to be an administrative dispute. Here the first question is whether it's good at all, and then you'll see when we put out a second remark on why it's important. That disfellowshipping takes place here even though it's not justified by us. Because it should be borne in mind that the draft law governing the procedure before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia is completely contrary to the existing Law on Administrative Disputes. Namely, in these cases a judge solves an individual, the deadlines as well as the court's powers under the provisions of Article 12 are arranged differently. The proposal for a law, for example, shall be decided by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia on the discretionary assessment of the measure of matters to approve or not to request asylum refusals, etc. In fact, the judges of the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia will be in a position to create a Croatian asylum policy, not to implement the Law on Asylum, and against the decision of the administrative court there is actually no regular legal remedy, the only requirement remains for the protection of human rights and freedoms before the Constitutional Court and therefore complicates the situation and it is quite clear that this issue should be brought into line with the law on the one hand with the Constitution, on the other hand with the Law on Administrative Disputes, on the third hand, actually with the jurisdiction of the Constitutional, Administrative Court as we now have in relation, because we could not extend that jurisdiction by this law. Another principle point is that the draft law introduces an accelerated procedure in Article 50 which disrupts the fundamental principle of hearings by actually party. We believe that it is necessary for asylum seekers to be able to identify refugee status individually, which includes conducting a hearing in a language which they understand, at the end of the day, what is absolutely prescribed by our Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities, as well as by the Constitution concerning the protection of human rights and freedoms. It is, of course, necessary to ensure a balance between the need for a swift and effective decision on asylum applications submitted and the need to comply with existing international obligations, including those arising from the 54th Convention on the Protection of Refugees and the 67th Protocol, and we believe that, in this segment, by introducing so-called the accelerated process would not be ensured and would not be protected. Third, of course, not to conduct an asylum seekers' hearing is contrary to the principles on which one of our other laws rests again, it is the Law on a general administrative procedure applicable in the asylum implementation process. So this is the law which regulates asylum, but the Administrative Procedure Act is implemented and implemented as a procedural law regarding... a which includes, inter alia, establishing the principle of so-called ‘the principle’. the material truths and this is achieved by the principle of party hearing and by the principle of assistance to the ignorant party. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, we must keep this in mind, and that part should also be brought into line with this law. Or generally, we warn that this law is not in compliance with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and on these concrete examples we show it. The further proposal for a law sets out broadly the assumptions on the basis of which it can be estimated that the asylum requirement is clearly unfounded by a series which will carry out an accelerated procedure without the basis of a specific hearing of asylum seekers. You know what can be resumed into the law, it should also be funded through the material truths and what is not possible without hearing parties and seeing certain documentation and evidence. That's why we think this should be corrected as well. The bill further regulates the right of asylum seekers, asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection to free legal aid. Of course, we are here in principle saying that it is not about any free legal aid but about providing legal assistance at the expense of the state. But what our objection is, our objection is that it does not include everything necessary to provide as legal assistance to asylum seekers, foreigners or asylum seekers. Legal assistance should include, or be limited in this segment, only to assist in the assembly of lawsuits and representations before the administrative court, and we believe that legal aid should be provided at all stages of the status process is an important assumption, of course, for both the fairness and independence of the asylum procedure that is necessary for the protection of asylum seekers and asylum seekers in the extreme line in relation to those rights guaranteed by our Constitution, and in accordance with this law. Therefore, the availability of legal assistance assumes a minimum standard in the asylum procedure and most asylum seekers belong to a particularly vulnerable group, since they generally do not understand the Croatian language or know the Croatian legal system and are often untrustworthy of the authorities because of the trauma and persecution they have experienced and experienced themselves in countries they try to avoid, trying to find refuge in other countries. All of this, of course, has an important impact on their testimony, so it may occur that during the hearings they fail to state any of the facts or convincingly explain the reasons why they base their testimony and present certain evidence and facts. Of course, the right to legal aid stems from our constitutional right, in particular Articles 26 and 14 which states that all are equal before the law. Now this should also be further aligned with the European Parliament, which also in its resolution on minimum guarantees for asylum procedures requires free legal assistance from asylum seekers. It is obvious, therefore, that this part should be harmonised to the end. These five principles of principle are of course very important to us, such as an extremely important principled remark concerning Articles 33 and some others, that I do not, for example, list Article 15, etc. a which speaks among other things about the establishment in the shelter being governed by a regulation, Article 33 of the Ministry's internal structure and is now said the Croatian Red Cross, Croatian Caritas, UNHCR and other organisations engaged in the protection of the rights of refugees can lead educational, educational and similar programmes at the shelter and provide other forms of assistance with the previous consent of the Ministry. You know, it's hard and impossible to spend. We can discuss humanitarian organisations that can do this, we can discuss organizations that protect human rights and freedoms. We cannot allow and we should not, as no country in Europe has done, if Caritas were to be taxed to do so. It can be made possible to provide humanitarian and assistance to an asylum seeker, but to implement educational, educational and similar programmes, and at the same time, in accordance with our Constitution and the law on equality of religious communities, we would like to warn the question that, before the final proposal of the law, another consideration is being given to other religious communities, and possibly if it is to open up the possibility that even from a religious aspect of a particular educational, educational and similar programme can teach asylum seekers and study then we must clearly introduce a specific article and prescribe that all religious communities are equal in this regard and therefore want to organise this through their associations and associations that deal with these parts of issues. In addition to these remarks that are principled nature, we have a lot of objections that could be made in the sphere of individual objections, for example, we mentioned this about Article 12 where it is said that a administrative dispute can be initiated without the right to a second degree appeal, or appeal in the second degree, but we have to point out something else that is very important. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You see, we believe that if we want to protect human rights and the freedom of asylum, so the exiled person, the persons who in an extremely difficult political social, economic and any other situation because of the terror and persecution that appear to be over her in the country from which she avoids, then it could be difficult to assume or cross, start from the assumption, the assumption that she understands some of the languages with which she is spoken. We must make it possible for the asylum person to express his position and apply, etc. in the language he understands. The second question now is how to resolve this issue through translation, funding, etc., and of course with the participation of humanitarian organisations. Therefore, we must further say that we have a very serious objection to the collection of personal data referred to in Article 22 where it is said that the ministry and the administrative court may, for the purposes of this law, collect personal data from asylum seekers. Look, if the Ministry does this, it's logical and normal, but we can't give our administrative court an inquisition role to collect data. It can only be tried on the basis of the Constitution, the law, the evidence presented by the parties in the proceedings. Therefore, it would not be appropriate for the administrative court to now begin to collect evidence and data that are relevant to the decision-making process, or God forbid it has yet to happen to him that he has to go to a foreign country as an administrative court to investigate whether exactly what the asylum lawyer has filed in his application. That's why we want to say that it needs to be resolved precisely. We also believe that it is necessary to resolve precisely in Article 29 of the so-called humanitarian aid where we believe it should be made possible, but it should be pointed out that an asylum person has the right to receive humanitarian aid from the country and abroad and that this humanitarian aid is not necessary, we should not pay a value added tax or any other tax, regardless of whether aid is being sent from the country abroad, we have an agreement on avoidance of double taxation. As far as the deadlines set out in Articles 50, 52, 54, etc. are concerned, it is clear that they should be brought in line with the Law on Administrative Disputes. And if the issue is to be resolved, the urgency of the procedure will then be brought back into line with those same deadlines that regulate the Law on Administrative Disputes, so, exceptionally, if it wants to increase some special speed again, it will comply with the Constitutional Court Act, which will be settled in extremely rapid and short terms. Of course, in Article 52, what we particularly insist on is not only in the case of the refusal of applications but also in the case of the resolution of a particular request, this is the question that it is definitely resolved that the issue, that the administrative court should have so-called "administrative" in the resolution of these cases. The jurisdiction of full jurisdiction because after that there is practically nothing left but that it can go to the Constitutional Court for the Protection of Human Rights. Otherwise, the administrative court generally judges in a way that, in fact, on the basis of unaccompanied sufficient facts, errors in the procedure, returns the case. And we should be in a position to finally get this thing settled in full jurisdiction. In Article 66, it should certainly include other organisations and bodies such as the Public Advocate, such as bodies dealing with the protection of human rights and the freedoms of, in particular, the State's Attorney's Office, the SECTOR when it comes to the participation of other persons in the asylum procedure. And I don't owe it because the time is up, and I'd have to say more about co-operation with other bodies, the ministry will work with other state bodies during the establishment and duration of temporary protection and the return of persons whose temporary protection has ceased to work with other state bodies, UHCR and organisations dealing with the protection of rights and refugees. Now the question should be resolved that before that he will cooperate with this man how he will exercise those rights in front of these organizations that need to protect the minimum of his human dignity and position in relation to what he has. And the last thing we object to is the criminal measures and deadlines set out in Article 92... measures in 99, since it is entirely illogical that a fine will punish, for example, an asylum infringer, an asylum seeker if he leaves or tries to leave the Republic of Croatia among other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how will you spend that measure if a man has left the Republic of Croatia, and those who claim if he returns, then We will punish him. No, then you will have solid proof because he left that he did not really want asylum in Croatia but wanted Croatia as a transition country and you will practically bring him the measure by which you will bring him back to the country where he came from. Thank you very much for your time and thank you for your extension, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78605	Thank you very much. Finally, State Secretary Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78606	Thank you very much. Here I have really listened to the careful debate, especially this last Mr. Arlovic, and I can say like this, that there will definitely be a need to consider some of your remarks because it is a really complex issue that is affecting the rights of human freedom. However, I would just like to respond to Mr Vuljanic, he is now coming out, I think some of his findings simply do not stand. He said the center is guarded by the police, probably by the military. No, there were really ugly situations about trying to set up an asylum seekers centre, but that was exclusively the result of the inaccuracy, politics and uncivilized behaviour of individuals. The asylum seekers' centre in Kutina has been established in a very correct way in agreement with local self-government. The center is functioning and so far there has been no single incident. I think that thus the Croatian people have shown that they are civilized and that Croatian society is becoming increasingly mature. There have also been several other objections, such as why asylum, and no, I have not even memorized that word, but asylum is an international legal category that refers to exactly these people who are being persecuted, who are seeking refuge. But the closest thing to this concept of refuge would be temporary protection, what Mr. Stengl said, where people who are being persecuted or for other reasons must leave their country, but do not seek asylum. It was the mass of Croats in the situation in Hungary, Germany and other countries where they were sheltered but did not seek asylum. Mr Vuljanic also asked why the article 66 excluded the public. So this is the basic interest of asylum seekers to exclude the public, to resolve this request in a discreet manner, unless the request is adopted so that this person, the asylum seeker, can safely return to his country and not be exposed to persecution. There were several other remarks that I failed to write down, but we certainly made sure that this bill provided truly one decent and civilized treatment of persons seeking asylum precisely because in the early 1990s Croatian people had been exposed to one brutal aggression and the mass of people, Croatian citizens sought what forms of protection and assistance in other countries. And I think we really need to show one special sensitivity for that. And finally, we have achieved this through the sensitization of the public and, as I said, the establishment of a asylum seekers centre in Kutina has indeed gone through a democratic, civilized, cultural way in collaboration with local self-government. And this is a really good example that Croatian society is becoming more politically mature and that Croatian society is absolutely able to accept all obligations from the international legal order. Once again, what Mr. Arlovic said really has several objections that we will seriously discuss. Just to tell you the same thing that we discussed with the UNHCR about this proposal, the UNHCR had no objection to this, but absolutely what you said we'll discuss all your remarks, I won't comment on whether we're going to adopt it, but in any case there is a need for their debate. Once again, I believe that this is a good proposal that can possibly be improved and that Croatia will really have a good law that will protect human rights, dignity and freedoms of people who are... , and at the same time protect national interests that this institute is not being abused. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78607	Thank you very much. We will conclude today's session by voting tomorrow at 9pm and 30 minutes on the points discussed, on amendments to the state budget, on the state budget and on other points in connection with the state budget. Thank you very much and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-30-0.u78608	Proposal for an asylum law. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for an asylum law is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 79 votes for the proposed conclusion. Elections, appointments and resolutions, Committee Chairman Nevenka Majdenic.
