ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72967	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian government has reached and entered the root reform of local self-government and electoral system in order to more respect the will of Croatian citizens, Croatian voters. He therefore proposed a direct selection model for mayors, mayors, mayors of the City of Zagreb and municipal mayors, and it is also necessary to regulate the relationship between the directly elected executives at the level of local self-government and also the elected representative body of units of local, or regional self-government. The Croatian Government and the Central State Administration Office have drafted the bill, conducted a broad discussion with all those concerned, with the National Association of Local Self-Government Units and before you is at the first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. It is our desire that this Law be thoroughly discussed, that it be adopted now in order to be applied in the next local elections to be held in May 2009 and that the rules of the game and relations between the bodies for which regular local elections are to be held. This Law also prescribes the termination of the term of office by force of the law of the directly elected head of executive power and that is in 6 tax cases. This is if he resigns if he is deprived of his professional capacity by a judicial order, if he is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than a month, if he declares residence in the area of units of local, or regional self-government, if his Croatian citizenship and death ceases. In case such a fact occurs, the representative body will inform the Government and the Government will, unless it is possible to replace it, then appoint the Government's Commissioner for Executive Affairs. If the deputy stays in office until the next election of the executive power, the deputy will exercise power. In a possible conflict between the representative body and the executive body and the mayor, the final word according to our proposal will be those who have chosen both and others, which are citizens residing in the area of that unit of local self-government or regional self-government, who have the right to vote. We therefore foresee the possibility that a representative body which does not agree with the policy carried out by the mayor, who considers that he is incompetent to carry out his duties, when he violates or does not execute a decision by a representative body or by doing his work, may cause significant material damage without being covered by the Penal Code and may request a statement from the citizens in a referendum on the resolution of the mayor, i.e. the mayor or the municipal chief. If citizens vote in the referendum for the mayor's resolution, his term of office will end, the government will appoint a commissioner and call a new election for, the mayor's extraordinary election, or the municipal chief. However, if citizens support the mayor in the referendum, they do not resolve it, then the Council must carry out the consensus, the Council must be disbanded and thus protect the stability of the authorities at the level of local self-government and prevent the chic launch of the referendum. And we also have to allow a civil initiative so that if 33% of the voters enrolled propose a referendum, the representative body must call a referendum on the mayor and the mayor's trust. Given that this initiative is to be, this referendum should be called upon to encourage citizens, not on the incentive of the representative body itself, then any failure in the referendum should not have negative consequences for the representative body itself. The issue and powers of the directly elected mayor and mayor were discussed with regard to the management of the property of units of local self-government, acquisition and alienation. Of course he can't be, as someone tried to insinuate himself, just a ficus, but he can't be a person who has authority without any restrictions. It is now proposed by this bill that the mayor, mayor or municipal chief be able to have it on their own in terms of the acquisition and alienation of the movement and property of the local self-government unit up to its height, to a value that does not exceed 0.5% of the budget for the current year. Given the huge difference in the level of the budget, there is also the upper limit, so that is, that is, 0.5%. If he crosses 1 million kuna, then the upper limit is 1 million kuna. Other articles of the Law are adapted to this new role, the new model of choice. They simply abandon the provisions on the headship that so far was a local government that corresponded to the representative body and we had to do all the details as far as we could see, arrange for this Law to enter into force on 17 May 2009. So the day the next regular local elections end. As I was saying at the outset, we want this matter to be thoroughly discussed, thoroughly arranged, and that is why we started the reform early enough, not to impose deadlines on the situation that insufficient mature solutions are being built into the Croatian legal system. We will carefully consider all ideas, suggestions and remarks and install them in the Final Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72968	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Constitution, political system? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The chairman of the board, Drazen Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72969	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 64th session held on 26 September 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 29 June 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee presented the following comments, proposals and opinions in the debate on the draft law. It is necessary to review the provision that at least 33% of voters should support the proposal for a decision to hold a referendum to resolve the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputy, as the Committee holds the number too high. In Article 8 of the proposal, Article 40.b is to be incorporated into the grounds for which the representative body may resolve the municipal head, mayor, or mayor and their deputy, without having called a referendum. In the same article, it is necessary to clarify the concept of considerable material damage which is the reason for resolving said leaders if it was caused by the unit of local, or regional self-government. In Article 9, it is necessary to examine whether the proposed provision on the selection of deputy municipal mayor, mayor, or mayor, reflects the right to a proportionate representation of members of national minorities in the representative body of units of local and regional self-government, prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government is adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72970	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The SDP representative club, the respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72971	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The SDP representative club proposes that the Government withdraw this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government and commit the Government to deliver to the Croatian Assembly a full Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government which will take effect before the next local elections. In particular, we believe that the government led by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has stopped the decentralisation process in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, we believe that full inconsistency and confusion have been introduced in the legislative regulation of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia and third that the Government has the obligation above all to enable local self-government to use those rights that came into force in the last year's past amendments to the law, amendments and additions to the Law on local and regional regional self-government, which local self-government units cannot use until today because the government is constantly writing new amendments and amendments to the law, while those it has written and adopted by this Assembly under the form of a large, huge decentralisation does not change the laws and implementing regulations that would allow local self-government to use. So these are the principal reasons why we think that again this is just throwing dust into the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and a big story about how this Croatia will decentralise, how we will have municipalities, cities and counties that will have powers and fiscal capacity to solve the problems and needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, this law is completely inconsistencies, confusing, indeterminate, contradictory, contrary to other legal proposals that we currently have in the parliamentary procedure, which concerns local self-government. I would also ask that a conclusion be reached, if the parliamentary majority insists on this, to create a consolidated text of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, and I am very interested in what this consolidated text of this law will look like. Because in this law you will have a part that is in force and can be applied, the part that is in force and inapplicable is the part that will only take effect on 17 May 2009. In the same article, you will have these three provisions of that law. There is no need to discuss here today what will be on May 18th 2009, if we haven't discussed it today and decided that from tomorrow on big cities can issue building permits, because we voted here that they must, and the government is making it impossible for them. ... And there's a big question. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have here obliged the government to pass a law that will entrust public roads to units of local self-government to manage and maintain. It's been a year since the government simply made it impossible for local self-government units. If there's anything we need to discuss, then we need to talk about it. If there is anything to discuss, we need to discuss the Law on the Communist Economy, gentlemen, which the government has promised to enter into the procedure by the end of 2004. If there's anything we need to discuss, it's fiscal decentralisation. Not at party gatherings. We need to discuss fiscal decentralisation here in the Parliament. And this government hasn't even given local self-government a few taxes. And these are the facts that need to be discussed here in this House and not talk about what's going to happen on 18 May 2009, right? Now we're going to a whole series of objections regarding this law. This law is completely inconsistencies with regard to proposals which are also written in the same government, and let's say, in Article 40a, where reasons for disbanding or when stopping the mayor or mayor and his deputy term of office are cited in certain paragraphs but in Article 12. The law on the direct selection of mayors we discussed and did not vote you have one more reason, for example. So how come from one law to another law that one reason was lost? If we already have needs in those two laws to define, then I guess they're the same reasons. It's impossible for one law to be a reason more and in another law a reason less. And I call you if we pass this law to try to put together this article in the 40th and try to read carefully what it will look like and who will be able to interpret it at that moment, right? Now what is extremely problematic is the question really recalls the way in which the directly elected head of the local self-government unit and its deputy can be recalled. You have two ways that the law predicts. That is, when decided by the council, which is not to say which majority of the council decides to call a referendum, but may be the majority of the votes present at the session, which means that, for example, the city council with 25 members can happen that 7 council members decide to call a referendum. Secondly, it is said to be a referendum, the mayor will be removed if most of the voters who went to the referendum declare it. Gentlemen, this provision says that a citizen, a single citizen, can be replaced by a mayor. The one and only, theoretically. One citizen can go to a referendum, there can be 100% of the vote in the referendum... And the mayor's shift. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 6 councilors, for example, or one-third of the councilors, one-quarter plus one-man councilman calls a referendum and one citizen replaces the elected mayor directly. Even more absurd is the situation in Article 40c, which says that if 33% of eligible voters ask for a referendum and for a referendum to be valid, it is sufficient for one citizen to come to it. Once again, a citizen may be replaced by a mayor, but in order for that one citizen to be in a position to be replaced by 33% of voters to sign a petition. Well, that's absurd, gentlemen. If 33 must sign, and then at least 50 should go to the elections or 50 must vote for a changed mayor, because they cannot be less than the ones they sign qualified to discharge that mayor. And we're always talking about the mayor being needed, so I'm talking to the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, and his deputy mayors. Gentlemen, what about the council? Why wouldn't the citizens have the right to disband the city council, why wouldn't they have the opportunity to discuss a referendum on the disbanding of the city council? And the Parliament? Why would they just replace the mayor's citizens? So the citizens will choose the councilmen. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah? Why wouldn't the mayor have the authority to disband the city council? Yes, yes, gentlemen! ... Because if the City Council can make a decision, if one-quarter of the city council can decide that the Deputy Mayor should, in some exceptional situations, have the possibility of disbanding the city council. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He must have the possibility of disbanding the city council. Because otherwise we put the mayor in the position that nothing, directly elected mayor, not today's mayor who has to listen to the representative body, but directly elected mayor who has his or her own legitimacy, is just a day from the citizens, that he does nothing but listens to what the city council determines. The council has not been elected directly. According to the law, you may know something more than I know, but I was talking about it yesterday that we need to pass a new law on the selection of representative bodies of local self-government instead of having the kind of confusion we have today, you know. Now we're coming to the deputy. I don't understand what happens when you replace the mayor, he remains a deputy. I don't understand. Are we really going to call a referendum on the replacement of deputy mayors and deputy mayors? Is that what we're gonna do? Then what's going to happen? So imagine where we're gonna be. And the mayor and deputy are elected together, at the same time, just as soon as the mayor is elected. So what situation do we have? Well, we'll have some referendums or elections in some local self-government units every week, right? Now you come to the question of national minorities' representation. This law provides for the representative body to be directly elected by another deputy. However, that indirectly elected deputy shall have the same powers as the directly elected deputy or directly elected mayor. What about that indirectly elected deputy, is he available for a referendum? Are we going to call a referendum for him to be replaced? So you have as much as you want indeterminate things that are simply in opposite terms with each other. Let's do Article 13 of this law, gentlemen. There's a rumor here that we have, that we're going to have a million-dollar mayor. Therefore, the mayor will be able to bring up to 0.5 or a maximum of 1 million kuna. If we were there in that article, the executives in the local self - government units would no longer be headships but were directly elected leaders, then why reduce their powers. That's one thing. Second, we discussed the transfer of power last week. And watch the absurd now. This article says ok. Three years and 11 months you have 0.5 million kuna and in the month of the election campaign you have 1% to one twelveth budget. So, when we discuss the election in the election campaign, then we will increase the authority of the unit leaders of local self-government. Completely confusing, from the same office, both texts of the law came from the same government, and we discuss it at the same session. It can't, be careful, even today, the headship can't decide anything that isn't in the budget. So why limit some powers? If the representative body adopts a budget so that the mayor may not be directly elected directly or indirectly unless he abuses his powers and then he should be put in prison to decide beyond what is in the budget. So the state has to define its control mechanisms in the Office of State Administration and do administrative supervision, at the Ministry of Finance and work financial supervision, but let's not say, for example, that the mayor of Split or Rijeka who will have in 2009 I hope between a billion and a half and 2 billion kuna budgets. So let us not force them to have every other day of the city council to make decisions on the acquisition or alienation of movables and real estate. Or let's just say we don't need to get a budget. There's no need to make a budget and work. Imagine that the Parliament doesn't decide anything about the budget and the budget of the state is 110 billion. Imagine that we now reflect the situation on the Parliament and say that up to ten million kunas the government can decide on its own and the rest must come here to the Parliament. Well, there's no need. So we have something called the budget. Next, you have a situation when the city council is disbanded. It's called the Commissioner. What role is the commissioner in this situation? When you replace the mayor or his deputy, you appoint a commissioner. So we'll be in a position to have two commissioners. Here the current position on the future situation is mirrored. We can't do something that's a solution today when we have a representative body of the directly elected leader to reflect on something when we have directly elected mayors. And finally, be careful this is something to come into force on 17 May 2009, so Article 24 has since then, since 17 May, the statutes of the local self-government units have to be aligned within 90 days, and how units of local self-government will function in those 90 days. With the chieftains? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How will it work, gentlemen, if we have a directly elected mayor, the statute provides for the headship to make some decisions, etc. How absurd this is also saying that the law stipulates that the mayor attends the meetings of the representative body. And the second article tells him that he's the promoter of general acts. So if you're there, how are you going to defend general acts? It is to be said that he participates in the work, or gives him the authority that he has today’s headship. The mayor must be in position and be able to summon a representative body so that he does not block it in the work when a general act is to be adopted but all of this here does not speak of it. Therefore, we propose that the Government finally accept jobs, allow units of local self-government to be able to use those powers provided for by the current Law on Local Self-Government and commit the Government within the appropriate time limit to adopt a whole text of the new Law on Local Self-Government that will come into force in May 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72972	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72973	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It is precisely an incorrect assumption that this bill is confusing, inconsistencies. It is quite modern and is part of a system that decentralises local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia and those remarks which it said should be in this law are the parts of the law, the Law on Waste, the Law on the Community Economy, the Law on Roads, the Law on Other Associations, therefore it should not be mixed with this bill and the Law on the financing of local self-government and this is a special part of the law decentralised precisely by the modern Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72974	The second correction by the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72975	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of the Mayor of Koprivnica where he claimed that this law serves nothing and that he should be withdrawn from the procedure. Namely, this is a modern law that speaks of everything that you have not been able to do and suggests a clear definition of the choice of local regional leaders and their powers through further work in local self-government. You were unable to do that, and therefore this is a modern law that is on the verge of European norms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72976	For the HSS Club, a respected representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72977	Mr. President, Mr. Palaric, colleagues and colleagues! Well, here I would say that the HSS Club has already spoken publicly about this bill many times and said what it means, although of course it can refer to first and foremost to the draft law on the elections of mayors, mayors of the city of Zagreb, mayors and municipal mayors, the first reading that was held at the last session and when we made certain remarks. This is very connected, and it is therefore necessary to start by saying that we have already warned about some indiscretions as well as vague formulations of certain articles. If you look at a little phonogram, I was just talking about what my predecessor was talking about about the special position of the deputy and his indefinity. Let's not do that again. Therefore, the HSS Club considers that, for the reasons of these links between this present bill and the law on which I spoke, the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors of the City of Zagreb, Mayors and Municipal Mayors, that these two laws, because of this symbiosis, must be at the same session, to see what the content of one law and another is, and then there would be no ambiguity and there would be no question in one law as to what the other law applies. So we, as the HSS Club, will protest if the final, final bill is discussed separately. Secondly, as I said and then on behalf of the Club when we spoke and the individual Croatian Peasant Party was, in any case, also a advocate of the direct election of local and regional self-government because it is a significant and important civilizational step for us, but at this point, I would say that we can also treat it as a significant challenge. It's one newspaper as much as I'd like and apply it as soon as possible, but a newspaper that certainly reports or if it hasn't already reported a series of dilemmas from moral to ethical. And they, for sure, can somehow be categorized depending on the degree of society's readiness for such a significant civilizational step. Given that the public is quite I would say already informed of the principles of direct choice, but also not sufficiently familiar with the particulars I think it will not be difficult to accept in the public such a new model. However, it is important that this necessary, practical experience that we have, which we all have together on the existing system of organisation and functioning of local or regional self-government, we try to apply maximumly in this law. Some dilemmas or problems that have arisen to avoid now because now is an opportunity. Of course there are models, and this isn't exactly the original idea that wants to be applied here, and just on these existing models that exist, I think we should create a good system. Who's with us or who's in charge of our dilemmas? The main dilemma that should be shared with the legislator is the precise and very clear relationship between the representative body and the directly elected head? So the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. Not to get, of course, locals, under the allegations of a sheriff with unlimited power or that local or regional self-government leaders are not created by certain legal restrictions without the right legal power and yet on the other hand by persons who have received high voter trust or voter support. And secondly, did this bill set up quality control mechanisms that should be improved and not blocked by the functioning of local self-government or by blocking the work of local self-government? I will try now on the basis of some of our dilemmas that I have been talking about, and I think it is nothing immodest if it is found here that there are a large number of both commissioners and mayors among the distinguished colleagues and also mayors who have felt the bitter life of the executive government in local self-government and can certainly contribute to a quality debate but also to an improvement of this bill's significant improvement. If you go with the bill itself, of course it is very clear that there is no headship, there is only the mayor, mayor, mayor and his administration. People who will write certain decisions. Sometimes the headship is what, we can speak either unilaterally or coalitionally and so forth, but there were completely different profiles and each had some kind of suggestion and so to say helped to make as many quality proposals or decisions as possible. There's no law on local employees today. We don't have a relationship between the Chiefs, the Chiefs and the Officials. I'm talking about locals even though we can say the Civil Service Act applies. But that's not it. So in HSU, we think that headship had this special role of its own at least in that segment that people from different professions used to come to. Now, what's gonna happen? We can't compare counties, big cities, smaller cities, larger municipalities and smaller municipalities. Not all of them are equal. How can small, free to say poor municipalities where there is a volunteer chief possibly head of a single shopping department if there is a secretary in that, in that seat of the municipality? How will these people be able to write and make decisions? I think we should still think a little bit about whether in the law to make it possible in some way or, of course, it will be possible that every mayor, mayor or mayor, probably mayor not so much, is determined by some team on the side, but this, this is a rather unfortunate transition period where we will initially create from these local leaders or great sheriffs or powerless people who do not have, who are not universal. Furthermore, in Article 4, this is the former Article 35.b where it is said that the chief or not is said to be relevant, so the local leader twice annually submits a report on his work. And that's okay. But the item behind it, so the passage behind it says that, that the representative body could ask for a report on the work from the municipal chief and so on. Well, that's not a question, but what's gonna happen? I speak based on experience. Well, every month, someone's gonna be looking for some kind of work report. And what will that chief do? He's gonna keep writing his reports? Well, twice a year is enough to give a report. Well, so far it's been once a year. That's how we usually used to put municipal councils in municipal institutes, so we put it in the county twice a year. And where are we going to come every month to look for a report on his work? This is not a bad proposal, but we will probably then potentiate the representative's body to request a work report at any moment, if possible, to block the work of the local directly elected leader. I have already said this in Articles 7 and 9 where it is mentioned that according to a special law, the position will be defined and... The mayor, the mayor and the mayor and I repeat the HSS once again insists that it be at the same session, to see what the solutions are. [[You don't understand.]] Article 8 or, if we look at little existing law, it is Article 40, but we are most interested in Article 40.b here. This is also likely to be discussed most in this House. The relationship between executive and representative authorities. We believe that here in this bill, their relationship is not sufficiently precise and qualitatively defined. Why do we say that? Because just because it's as much as it is so far, but we can be more or less satisfied, the headship still had a precisely defined relationship between the executive authority, so headship and representative bodies. There should be a lot more and more specific things to determine here. Most of the time, I'm going to devote my best interest to this dilemma about how to vote mistrust to the captain who's been properly registered here, but I'm not sure that all the dilemmas have been removed. First one solution model through a referendum. I'm not going to repeat anything that has been said, but I'm just going to draw attention to it anyway, it's that such a proposal can, of course, be acceptable, so the representative body has the possibility to call a referendum on the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor. It's for us, for the two of us here now the dilemmas are present. First, 33% of voters enrolled in the list of municipal, city and county voters. Does anyone understand what 33% means? It's almost sometimes a complete response to the election. Of course, we won't oppose these 33%, but it's a very significant job, and that's what they're trying to say if someone and the representative body wants to replace their mayor, and the mayor needs an enormous amount of effort to do it. It's not that simple to do. It is intended to say if the Chief is often wrong and is confronted with representative bodies, etc. It'll be pretty complicated to do that. Maybe you should consider reducing that percentage of 33%. On the other hand, it is not defined when the referendum is valid. As Mršić used to say, one person comes along and replaces the directly elected leader. That should be precisely defined whether it takes 50+1 of course 50% of the ones that came out, but it's a dilemma again. We can't go with 50% that came out. Our dilemma is 50% of those who have signed the minimum. Another thing that matters. He says that if made in a referendum of decisions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint a commissioner. So why the government? For one of the chiefs, the government has to do it. That some representative body... Chief. [[You don't understand.]] Why is it that the government now has to appoint every chief, so let's forget those times. Likewise, if no decision is taken on the discharge of the mayor, or mayor, at the referendum. The government of the Republic of Croatia will disband the representative body. The government doesn't need to, let the mayor or mayor do it, and of course a deadline should be set for the government to call the elections. And since my time is running out, it's also about the availability of funds, 0.5% or millions of kunas. The dilemma is quite significant. For someone, 0.5% is a lot, for someone a million kuna is a lot, and for someone a million kuna is small. Because it's all being unified here at 0.5% or at a maximum of a million kunas. We can't unify it for the mayor or the mayor of a small municipality. Also, if we're talking about that limit of one million kuna, then it's for the poor, for example, we need to pave the way for 500 meters, the value of a million kuna. But it's not the same for a little chief and a rich mayor or something. In any event, the provisions in the budget should be much more precise and that the head or therefore directly elected head may only have those items which are precise and in the budget determined. We could talk about the problem of budgeting right now. That's not defined at all. If no budget is voted on, of course, according to the current situation, the representative and, of course, the executive body shall be disbanded. How do you solve this relationship, these conflicts? Because, as a rule, either in general or in most cases, the directly elected chief may be from a minority political option, and the representative body will have most of the option from which he is not. It'll be conflicts... It must be defined precisely because the municipality must function naturally and because of the development of the municipality itself, and also because it functions towards people. [[You don't understand.]] So I repeat, there's still a lot of work to be done on this bill. The HSS will as well... always support, but let's precisely determine the relationship between the commissioner and the representative body, bring both laws here to see how the selection of mayors, mayors and mayors has been resolved, and then we'll certainly be much easier to discuss. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72978	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72979	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we are in this law in the process of very significant changes in the system of local self-government. Not only this law but also that law that we have already read twice, it is the Law on direct elections of mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. Because we ourselves know that a very common question has been raised in public and there has been great dissatisfaction with the current way of elections that has allowed objectively for people from smaller parties or from lists that have not received a significant number of members of Parliament of a local or regional self-government unit to become mayors or mayors or mayors, and in various inter-party arrangements, various inter-party cuisines and people, of course, the public has asked that the choice be transparent and that they actually make that choice. That means they're giving a direct voice to whoever's going to be mayor, mayor or mayor tomorrow. Of course, there were other opinions in the public that followed that we would actually divide Croatia in a way that we would have 500 or 600, what our colleague Sabati was saying, local sheriffs or local powerful men who would lead the unit autocratically, who would lead this unit in one way that was not appropriate to democratic order. However, it seems to me, we agree that after the experiences we have experienced so far in the functioning of the local self-government system, it seems that in this further development it is essential that we go into this direct choice project. And all that we agree here in this Chamber was that the direct choice law itself means nothing to us until we see what kind of relationship that mayor has directly elected or second leader, and what his relationship with the local parliament is. This is exactly what we get from the changes to this Law that are here today in our first reading, and we think it is good that it is in the first reading. This means that we can read it for another reading and respect the many comments that will be quite welcome and which have already been made and which are objectively standing and need to be arranged. In the opinion of the HDZ Club, we believe that this proposal is quite well balanced and that we now have a rather well-balanced relationship between the local parliament and the directly elected leader. Of course, further functioning will require a certain and greater political culture and a more rational approach to this problem. That it would be necessary to put aside some petty political interests in operation. Because what I was asking myself when I was asking myself is how it's going to work for us objectively can happen that in some local self-government unit we have a situation that there's some person who has charisma in their midst, doesn't belong to any party and passes, gets most of it and becomes mayor, mayor or mayor. And the relationship in Parliament to be completely different. That the Parliament in that unit of local self-government makes us some other political option that he's exactly, as you might say, gone. And now, in the functioning of such a complex body there can indeed be certain blockades and it can indeed come to the conclusion that either the mayor tomorrow or that direct leader does not implement those decisions made by such a parliament, and possibly that this local parliament does not accept those proposals made by such a leader. There's really a possible blockade of the system. However, if we read the Law, we see that solutions exist. It seems to me that this is a good thing because this law does not actually provide the possibility for this head to be easily removed. Believe me, the local parliament won't just decide to go to a referendum to replace such a leader. Because it's a big risk, it's a big risk to go to a referendum and ask that the shifted leader who was elected in the direct election. If that doesn't go away then those who put up with it, then they're actually in disposition, they're disbanded. It is also a great risk for such a parliament to obstruct, not to make those decisions for more than 3 months and not to make decisions out of its jurisdiction simply because it wants to obstruct a direct leader because then the power to disband such a parliament has the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the existing rules. I completely disagree with SDP counterparts' proposal issued by counterpart Mršić that the mayor should be given the authority to disband parliament in certain situations. I don't think that would be good because, under our Constitution, citizens exercise the right to local and regional (regional) self-government through their representatives elected to local parliaments. Our Law and by the surveillance system, that means those supervisions carried out by the representatives of the state administration, so those representatives of the central authorities of the state administration, that's the control of the acts they bring. I think it's quite correct, which means the head of the Office of State Administration can suspend a certain act he considers illegal. Then he delivers it to the Central State Office, the Central State Office continues to deliver it to the Government and it is a system that, in our opinion, is very correct. As far as disbanding is concerned, the Law is very taxing and very correctly listed reasons when a representative body can be disbanded. So these are possible options tomorrow that can occur in the blockade and that can actually lead to obstruction of the function between representatives, between the directly elected leader of the local self-government unit and the local parliament. But when we read the Law and see what consequences can come I think that in practice it will not happen so often. We must also not forget another thing, which is that it is the units of local self-government. I think that with some further development of these democratic institutions, that further development and our political and democratic cultures will come to this level so that these bodies do not have a high and large policy. It decides on meeting the direct needs of citizens, what is related to a particular local environment, and there should not be so much transfer of those conflicts that are characteristic of the parties at the state level. That is why we end up with a large number of local parliaments and those representatives of independent lists, those strong independent individuals who do not belong to any party. Therefore, I cannot agree with the SDP's assessment that this law is a waste of dust in the eyes of citizens because I don't think that I can definitely agree with you, colleague Mršić. That our system of local self-government doesn't work. Finally, your city proves that the system of local self-government works, and it proves that many international delegations are very affirmative about it. We are in the phase of one upgrade and development of that system. This is a very, very correct proposal in the first reading with which we can, of course, upgrade, and I fully agree with you that it is necessary to review those provisions on the referendum and possibly prevent more precise regulation of such provisions so that tomorrow is really a minimum citizens' date to such a referendum. It is also necessary to review these other provisions concerning what the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in its report has stated that it is necessary to specify precisely and precisely the reasons when such a mayor could be replaced or requested to carry out a citizens' referendum on his shift. What's very important, after this, after these two laws, is what my colleague Sabati was saying, which is very important, that these two laws are in the process, we've already discussed this, this one is before us today. They'll probably vote simultaneously at the same session about both. What is very important in this system of local self-government after these two laws is really going on very important changes. We no longer have the headship, we have the mayor as the holder of the executive office at the local level. Perhaps it would be good in that law to put some provisions on maybe the mayor's office, to see about the structure of his administration or leave it as correct as possible, to let it be regulated by the statute itself. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community club support this law in their first reading. We believe that this is a good proposal, we believe that this law is a good solution and balances the relationship between the local parliament and the directly elected heads of municipalities, cities, county and the City of Zagreb. We support it in the first reading and hope that even until the second reading and some of the purely technical things that have been observed so far will be well improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72980	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72981	Well, my colleague Bošnjakovic said that I said that the local self-government system does not work in Croatia, which is not true, I didn't speak at all about it, and since you've already called me, then I must say that how much money you left for local self-government it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72982	The club of representatives of the CNS, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72983	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will not support this bill for a dozen essential reasons in its first reading either. In fact, when I first read this bill of amendments, I thought that someone had tampered with me with a lousy version of the law, so I once again checked to see if I had the authentic text that came to us and I couldn't get the impression that this variant of the law was made or came from some Amsterdam coffee shop. The reason for the law says believe or not that the rule of law in the municipalities, cities and counties has been abolished in Croatia, and since there is a law in Croatia that prescribes the direct selection of municipal leaders. As far as I know, we still don't have such a law in Croatia because we haven't adopted it and we're waiting for the turn to vote. The Parliament may pass that law, but it does not exist at this time. In light of the law, it came from the fact that it had already been passed, I think such inaccuracies and such claims should not be written in the bill of law that was made after the second reading of the law to which it applies. I want to believe that the Parliament will finally accept what the Croatian People's Party has proposed four times in this House since 2001, which is that directly citizens choose their local leaders. It is clear from the very text of the law that this time the professional assistance of various agencies for international development, foreign institutes, and what particularly bothers me again in which document there is a government obligation, the central authorities that when preparing laws on local and regional self-government must consult with local or regional self-government. It seems to me that this is the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which Croatia has ratified. In the light of the law, there is no word on whether the debate was held in the alliance of municipalities, the alliance of cities and the communities of Croatian counties and what attitudes were made there by those who should apply these legal regulations. Now I must remind you when we proposed two whole laws a year and a half ago – on choice and on local self-government – and we did not offer amendments and additions because frequent amendments and amendments to the law without making consolidated texts are the reason for bad laws, then the government in its opinion refused our proposals, with the reason that the relationship between the directly elected leader and the representative body should be very carefully defined and determined. So let's see how in this bill the government has now very carefully determined. Article 3(3) of the amendment applies to Article 35 of the Law, which otherwise regulates the powers of the representative body. This does not change that provision and I ask you whether Article 35 states that the municipal council is responsible for the adoption of the budget or the County Assembly. Is there a provision for the adoption of the budget under the authority of the representative body? This is important because of Article 48. I'm asking in this model of direct elections, who's the proponent of the budget to the county council? Who's proposing a budget? There's no provision. The draft budgetor is not legally established. There is a provision that if the representative body does not adopt the budget within the time limit provided for to be dissolved. But there's no one who's bound to propose a budget. And we're going to disband the representative body because, say, the mayor didn't propose a budget because they couldn't bring it. So when we do a law that regulates new relations in local self-government like direct elections, then these provisions that weren't even necessary in the old system, we have to determine for precision. It is precisely for the accuracy of these relations of the directly elected head and representative body. Furthermore, Article 8 introduces a newspaper on the termination of the mandate directly to the elected leader. And now you have a provision in Article 40a that if the mandate of the directly elected mayor ceases in the year in which regular elections are held that there will be no extraordinary elections. Point. Who's replacing him? Government commissioner. He has his deputy who was elected to the direct election in a package with him. Why wouldn't he replace him? Or maybe he's replacing him? That's what law doesn't know how to read. Because there's a point here and there's a provision there if the mayor's term of office stops going to the government's commissioner. Old and new model, interphase solution, unspeakable. There's more. If he ceases his term as deputy at any time, there is no new choice for a deputy. So there's only one man left, mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality. And then what? The end of the term of office by force of the law has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 reasons. Is each of these reasons... The law equally important? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's say if the mayor stops his term of office for death, then he's being replaced by the Deputy Prime Minister, or there's an extraordinary election going on. Second, a court-lawful verdict over a criminal offence and a prison sentence for more than six months. They're not the same cases, they're not the same reasons, and it's not the same situation. These changes and additions don't speak at all, and when we have the misunderstandings below, then the central office will have to give an interpretation and hire the Department of Constitutional Law to explain to us in Parliament what we thought when we passed the law. Article 40b speaks of a referendum and the replacement of such elected leaders. So he says the representative body can discuss the referendum. On whose suggestion? One councilman. One-tenth of the councilmen, most of the councilmen, the councilman's club. Who is the formal promoter of the referendum, a certain number of councilmen's signatures, parliamentarians? What decision is a referendum decision made? Usually mostly, two-thirds, three-quarters. There's no provision. So, just most of it. Does the referendum also mean the replacement of his deputy? They were selected in the package. I guess there's a referendum in the package. But Article 40b speaks only of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor but not of the deputies. In Article 9 or the new Article 41 thereof, they shall also be separate. What does that mean? That we will choose them in a package and solve them individually. It's incompatible, what's not going on? Furthermore, the referendum is called by a representative body and the decision is justified by the majority of voters who went to the referendum. By what law? Namely, I remind the Parliament that Croatia has a special referendum law. There is a special referendum law that prescribes that this kind of referendum is called by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the referendum is valid if 50% plus 1 voter is included in the voter's list and decisions are made if the majority of 50% plus 1 said to the referendum. So, whether this referendum will be implemented under the Law on Referendum, or whether this law will be completed, or whether it would be acceptable for the first reading to see whether we are amending the Law on Referendum, is it then necessary to complete it and adapt it to the new kind of referendum of the municipal, city, county and national and national referendums? It's not the same. And yes. Now say it like this. The municipal council is calling a referendum to the unknown majority, and if citizens want to change for the initiative, you need 33% of the voter's signature, so one-third, and 25% plus 1 vote is enough in the shift referendum. So where does that leave the initiative asking for 33% of the signatures and the final decision is 25% of the vote. How does the initiative require more voters than it needs in a referendum to make the decision valid? I guess the other way around. If it was already wanted to be done to give citizens the opportunity as good as possible, then I guess 10% for the initiative and the referendum's decision is 25%. That's what the law says about the referendum. We don't change him, so that's the decision. Article 13 speaks of the power to dispose of assets. So far, the headship has managed and disposed of property. Control and control. It is now predicted that the management of the property remains direct to the head and the availability is limited depending on the value and is said to be 0.5% and up to million kuna respectively. Of what? 0.5% value of what? Some properties and so ten times a year or just once a year. Real estate values recorded in books, market values and real estate, estimated values and real estate. What value is it taken? What about the property that is registered in the books of the municipality, city or county? So there's no book value anymore. 0 is the value. So when given in the law of provisions relating to value, then they must be clear on what value is meant. Book, market, estimated and how many times in a year can such a right be accumulated, used or this is a one-time right. Again, the provision of the law is unclear, and we will apply it differently again and interpret it. And then we'll have situations that will make mistakes that will cause someone to come into conflict of interest, the second one will request a shift, the third one will have a criminal application, just because we don't have a full legislative reform right now. It's just that, through changes and additions, we patch up the system instead of having laws, a whole solution. Article 24 speaks of transitional situations and the obligation to bring the statutes and rules of procedure of local communities in line with this law within 90 days of 17 May 2009. And according to what regulations and rules will the establishment of a representative body be made in these elections? And that part of the law when we were working was the hardest to come up with, because in the end, even after consulting with the experts of constitutional law, we came to the conclusion that when you change the model of choice to the transitional solution, the issue is the constitution and the first constitutional sessions need to be resolved by law because the acts that exist in the local community cannot be applied to the new electoral model. And therefore this law should also have building solutions for the new model for the first constitutive session after the 2009 elections. Such a provision will indeed be a confusion, there will indeed be a situation that a large number of representative bodies will not be able to be established and that we will have extraordinary elections. These are the reasons why we won't be able to support us in first reading this bill. And we propose that this bill be withdrawn, to prepare a new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government set out in the model of direct elections that would come into force together in 2009 when regular elections for representative bodies, for mayors, mayors and mayors. This part of the mandate has begun, this game has started by one rule and ends by the rules that were valid, May 2009. A new mandate, a new structure, new regulations, a new way of choosing and other rules. Then we are also correct towards the citizens, according to the voters, and we are already laying down rules for the game of choice, power, jurisdiction and I hope that the issue of funding of local self-government from the party stands and conventions will be moved to this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72984	Thank you. 10:43, it is time for a ten-minute debate that 16 MPs have otherwise applied to. The club of HSP representatives in two parts, the first respected representative of Pero Kovacevic and in the second part of Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72985	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Well, the HSP Club believes that the bill's only title is good, and we don't think there are any conditions to discuss this bill in the first reading and we believe that a preliminary debate should be carried out. In fact, we are not smarter today and we were expecting this and it was the whole theme of the debate when we talked about the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors because we all agreed more or less with the fact that this direct choice actually means nothing unless it is known what relations are between representative bodies on the one hand and the directly elected leader on the other. So, if we go to new projects, we need to know and come up with and simulate how and how we are going to solve all possible issues or blockades that will appear in the relationship between the directly elected leader and the representative body. And for this reason, this should also be a fundamental approach to the government in the making of this law, meaning to accurately emulate situations where a blockade or conflict between a directly elected leader on the one hand and a representative body on the other. This is about one five, six key questions where conflict can arise and then it was necessary to see how and how these issues are resolved. The first question, let's say, is very important, it's a matter of budget. We need to be aware of the facts if it is about direct elections that this leader who has run will give his vision, his programme for the relevant municipality, the city or county as he thinks and in what time period, will mean in four years what and how it will be done. And now we're in a situation. He proposes a budget where he wants to implement his programme in the asset-related work. And on the other hand, there is a representative body that does not accept such a budget or that does not allow it to implement part of its programme which he has exposed to the voters of that municipality, that city, and the county. And so we come to the first conflict between the directly elected and the representative body. And we can come up with a situation that the representative body does not accept the budget and normally has to propose and propose the one directly elected. Is this about the mayor, the mayor or the mayor? Then what? Will the representative body be disbanded or a referendum will be held on whether this directly elected person has confidence? So that's the first question that is crucial and most important in this part when it's going to be a program that's done so. There are a variety of other issues from that domain, let's say the direct leader has promised to streamline professional services, administrations in the area of the municipality, the city and the county. With this proposal, he goes to the representative body, the representative body does not accept the proposal. Then what will be done? How will these questions be resolved? Let's say, in your assessment of the situation, you have raised basic questions that are proposed to be regulated by this law. The first thing you said was the introduction of a direct election by the municipal chief, the mayor or mayor, is not by this law, but by the law on direct elections. Secondly, it says, a precision of the relationship between the representative body and the executive body. Are these relationships specific? They're not specific. You will hear in the second part of the referendum on what the colleague of Trječević will say. So all of those big things, all of those situations where there's a blockade, means where there's a conflict between the directly elected and the representative bodies are not resolved at all, or it's visible how and how it can be resolved. Defining the authority of the municipal chief, or mayor or mayor, is it defined? No powers defined. What in situations where the project is contained is, say, an incorrectly selected program where it gives a vision of what is and what is to be done in four years? So how are they going to go with the issue of borrowing that municipality, that city, that county? Because he put out his program, he told the voters we'd make roads, we'd build pools, we'd open a business zone, or whatever he thought of, and now he wants to do it through the budget means to ensure implementation of the work. Have you considered in this part that one part of the budget he, as directly elected, can, say 40% that part must be accepted and that 60%, it is possible to see that it is within the jurisdiction of the representative body. And so what are the situations in which the conflict over the budget or in those decisions is going to be the one that will be brought by the court or when we do not have a legal solution whether a representative body will be disbanded in this situation? Or will it come to that part that the referendum will declare whether the leader has trust or does not trust? Then let's say very interesting situations tell you to stop by law enforcement. Veli, this is the article 40a: "If by means of a powerful verdict he is deprived of or limited business capacity on the day of the power of judgment." We know who can be deprived of business ability, or who can be limited by business ability, and under what conditions? It's a normal legal institute. But you probably thought more about saying various protective measures to ban enforcement... everyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about in the situation that the process of taking away the business capacity has been launched and is not resolved for the term of office? And after that, it is found that a certain municipality had a leader who, in general, was deprived of his business ability. What are we going to do about everything he's done? So it's possible and that's the way it is. And let's say what you're going to do in the case of saying, "The representative body will inform the government within 8 days of the end of the term of office." What if within 8 days when some of these reasons are considered to be ending the term of office by law, if they do not inform within that time limit? Will you do it then? And they knew about it. The representative body knows, but will not inform the government that, for example, the punishable head of traffic crime is, for example, two months of a powerful, legally convicted. And then why in such situations if he is resolved, why will we go to new elections when his deputy exists? Therefore, it is evident from this fact that, in fact, apart from the name of the law, everything else has not been solved. Nor was it tried to match, to an adequate solution. So let's put 10 questions where they're going to come from, here we've told you a couple, 10 questions where conflict can occur, a blockade between the directly elected and the representative bodies. And then the question of the issue is settled legally and we can get out of that situation. It's the only way we can get to something where we know what we're going to, how do we go? And the best one would be the variant, and when we do something like that, then we do a test on a number of cities and municipalities where extraordinary elections will possibly be held, so we can see if that's good too? This way, if this were to come into effect today, and if this were not to be done, it could be, there would be situations where certain municipalities and cities could be whole, the whole mandate would be held by referendums, and each other would be mistrusted. Here's Pejo Trječević performing further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72986	Thank you. Now stop the time just a little bit. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72987	When counterpart Pero Kovacevic said at the beginning of his exposure that we are not smarter today. I would beg him to speak for himself and avoid these plural forms. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72988	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here I must say on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that our club is not opposed to the adoption of such a law and we are not against the direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors, or local self-government representatives in the executive government. However, we have a Law on the direct selection of local self-government leaders without amendments and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government which would regulate the relationship between the directly elected local and regional self-government leaders and the representative body absolutely do not support it. Just now, Mr. Krunoslav Peronja said this bill is fantastic, modern, excellent. I don't know what kind of bill he's talking about, maybe he has some other law, but this proposal for amending and supplementing the law certainly isn't. I'm going to warn you of some things, which is that in the implementation of this Act, you have to provide additional resources in the budgets of local and regional self-government, but you don't know how much or when? Because you do not know how many times, this bill does not regulate how many times can it be held during the term of office or during one year of the referendum? So that's not defined at all. And this referendum, which can be called by local self-government under this Bill proposal, can be multiple times during the term of office or several times a year because it is not regulated. So you can't plan in one budget how will you finance the referendum? As for the replacement of the head of local self-government, or mayor, mayor, mayor and mayor, it is also not regulated by this Bill proposal and should certainly be regulated and this is how and how will they be changed? So this amendment and addition of the law regulates the referendum system. So it's possible to carry out a referendum, but we all know well that the referendum is actually, that we should finance as well as regular elections. But here we need to read one thing that no one mentions, which is that after the referendum is carried out, the elections will definitely follow. Whether the referendum gets the mayor and the mayor's trust or not. So we must hold elections after the referendum. Is the mayoral and mayoral elections or the local self-government election? So this proposal here to amend and supplement the law actually doesn't know whether the budget of local self-government will be sufficient for all these possible machinations of this bill? So the Croatian Party's advocates' club thinks this proposal can only be a one-reading law. We're rarely like a club, we didn't support the first reading of some law. This time we cannot support even the first reading of this law because we think it should be changed to 95% of this proposal. So we propose that the Proposer put this as a pre-reading and put together a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government which will define the precise relations between the representative body of local self-government and the representative of the executive authority of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72989	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72990	It is wrong of the distinguished colleague to necessarily follow the vote after the referendum. Because if the election is based on the demand of 33% of voters then there will be no vote for those 33% of voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72991	Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72992	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Palaric, colleagues and colleagues. You could get the impression that we actually have one great situation right now that everything is working and that it's best not to change anything at all. On the other hand, I can't speak for all of us, but some of us, some of us, but a good part of the public, we have witnessed that last year's elections and everything that happened after 15 May 2005, were really a drop that spilled the glass and that something really had to be done. Obviously, that existing law generated the crisis, and if we're going to be honest not a day has actually not been a year, the dice are constantly being folded, the political dice in Velika Gorica happened, it happened in Požega, it happened in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, something is being prepared in Brod, etc. and certainly there are a whole series of other municipalities and cities and counties where the situation is far from ideal. Although the elections have passed, we do nothing but deal with ourselves and show how low the policy can fall. Certainly that the free term is said civilizational fluid and that when a man is once elected that with that mandate he can... The way he wants it. [[You don't understand.]] We can simply question the motives of his sudden changes in political uniforms, whether they are political or behind it is some slightly more tangible reasons and motives and changes in these uniforms. The parties are shared as amoebes. People I say go suddenly into independent or find the insatiable new political love and apparently something should have been done. The law was obviously so made that it had just produced that crisis and obviously how things were going, and we showed that we were very imaginative about how to play certain legal solutions and I say that we really did do it as time went by from 93th to here, all the more imaginative and imaginative that in 2005 we really hit it so it wouldn't work anymore. And it was indeed a signal to the government, or to the state office to come up with a set of laws that will try to do this really, really not to honor us, which brings politics down to the worst kind of work and all those epithets that are shared with us in the public and the media, we have to accept that we are a little bit and we deserve because we are the most representative body, then it is up to us to try to change this existing state of affairs that I hope is not ideal and to say that things are standing, I'm afraid that by 2009, if the law remains the same, nothing more important will change, i.e. that the situation after 2009, will be even worse. Obviously, the most attractive places, the places of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor and the mayor must take certain moves that within the representative bodies will reduce these trades, and unprincipled agreements, and the unprincipled coalition, I say, in any case, a political trade that certainly causes legitimate resistance and anger in public. What's important now, if we've decided on such a thing and we feel like I'm saying the existing law is wrong, then these new laws have to be passed, they have to be much more content, much fatter. Nothing must be preceded by the law. Because if something is predicated, if something remains open then you know that, then you need to know in advance that our imagination is really going to get these things done, so here's what some colleagues before me were saying, right up to these little... the form if it is not clearly written in the law. [[You don't understand.]] Of course. And that clarity must indeed be comprehensive. And that's our remark. We support, in the end, we must just say that the experiences of that law that was passed at the end of 92, so we had the 93th elections, that very life in the local government, working 15 years in the local self-government, proved exactly all these possible deviations, and then from that experience, the same thing seemed to us to be where and where we were more instructed to have a direct choice of mayor so that when a man chooses to lose himself, then in the representative body, there were some more necessary needs for some non-principled trade than simply that the representative body works, and even if there is a possibility of cohabitation that political relations in the representative body are different, i.e. they have most of which do not belong directly elected chief, mayor, mayor or mayor or mayor. And I don't need it, I mean it's possible, that experience Europeanly, the world knows such opportunities and doesn't need us to be afraid of it. Also if there's a fear of having ficus or sheriffs. Well, these laws, even under this existing law, you had some who had very extensively interpreted the laws, very extensively, so we had these, and we were just talking about the governors, the local powers, the sheriffs who really did, or they respected the law, and they knew how much they needed it. Also there were people who were from a certain mental, mental set who were what they say they agreed to be local ficuses. It's always, what kind of man, or colleague Racan, repeats it to Buffalo's thought that man is a style, it will always be. So this law doesn't have if you're good, if you're thorough, if you predict everything, then there's really no fear of the sheriff or the ficus. After all, what we're introducing is no experiment. It even exists in these countries of the former Yugoslavia. It almost seems to me that Croatia is the last to decide on this institute directly elected mayor, mayor, or mayor. Republika Srpska, but you just don't... That it should offend anyone. [[You don't understand.]] So if in Germany, Hungary, here's these countries that, I mean this one that belongs, let me say, to an old democracy and this one that comes from this transition democracy. And things still work out. And here, I think fellow Sabati said this wisely, that just as on this trail that the law must be comprehensive, that it must overlook all details, that nothing can be left for free interpretation then this idea of the HSLS Club must be supported. After all, we've been on it for 15 years, or 10 years, insisting on just knowing the experiences we've been carrying from this local self-government. And now, that is, the Priors are setting that something is not going to work, it seems to me that it's not correct, but it's just a matter of trying not only until this second reading, and the amendments are always dangerous because they just hit a part of the whole, they don't hit the whole. But at the State Administration in the office, Mr. Palaric and his associates make them, when I say make it really as one positive coercion that from, after all, there is this comparative insight that this has been resolved precisely in countries of old democracy and countries of transition democracy, and it is precisely not mechanically prescribed, but simply going to predict those opportunities that our political life has burdened, I say, after 2005. And there is no fear of relations between the representative body and this mayor, or mayor or chief as well as of course not leaving at the possibility how many times the mayor submits a report, annual reports, and not really that this imagination of ours, which is very often quite playful. That life in the local self-government really comes down to cartoons and turns it into the hell of those who behave. And indeed, there are also sanctions if someone is really trying to act imaginatively and if they are trying to ironize or make a public mockery. It's, I mean, in that sense, I'm, I'm experiencing this set of laws, I'm saying, that's after May 15th, 2005. To be clear again, May 17th, 2009 is not such a long date. Things will go very quickly. We see how after a year and a half as this local self-government was established, we will rarely find municipalities, cities and counties that actually work perfectly. We're just going from crisis to crisis because the law, right now, allows us not only before the game, but also during the game that the rules change, that the uniforms change, and that you actually have a constant sense of uncertainty, uncertainty that then significantly reduces the quality of work. Certainly that idea of decentralisation, but through the democratisation of actually this life at local level must be our intensity. If that's not there, and also if you're reading this literature a little bit, then you'll see that in no other country, let's have more developed countries relations between the central government and local self-government not quite as ideal as we think it is. Even the American liberals who are the eyes of this liberal democracy also didn't exactly trust the cities too much, and there is also the urgency that the state is actually expanding these administrative powers, but that it significantly reduces the incomes that would then be put down, which would then be implemented. These are the problems I say we have to face too. Just find that balance between the relationship between the central government,... We are curding more important and local self-government to ensure the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia, all parts of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the big question is, again we have to go back if this number of municipalities, is this number of cities, this number of counties is optimal? We at the club think it's not, that it's exaggerating, that right now this material substance of the taxpayers of this country simply can't alimony, can't follow. That it's too expensive for us. The same thing when you talk very nicely about the necessity of decentralisation, I ask you what 15 municipalities are going to use their fire station, if 3 are going to use their fire trucks twice a year. Is there no other solution? ... Yeah, yeah. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Now here's another conclusion. We give the idea full support, the idea is we think it's good. It is on the trail of all the unpleasant political events of last year that have indeed cast a shadow on our political life especially at local level. But once again, we repeat that nothing in the laws should be left for free interpretation and interpretation, that everything must be predicted and said, that is why the laws must be much thicker, much more thorough, much more content. And it's all these possibilities that everyday life carries with it to just eliminate those remarks that could be heard here. Here, so, the idea and this draft, the bill's proposal, yes, but by the second reading, we expect a slightly thicker and more concrete text that will satisfy these demands as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72993	Thank you. Those were Goethe's words, "lights, lights." They were at Young Man's Eats, not Kramaric's. They were young Verther's. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. And what exactly is with that current now? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72994	The power's all right, Mr. President, the power's all right but the light's not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72995	Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72996	Thank you very much. I'm not going anywhere, but I'm just going to correct my colleague Kramaric's incorrect allegations. Namely, speaking of these relations between the executives, he mentioned the sheriff's office. Apparently, he mentioned the sheriff's office in that concept known in the wild west of North America where the sheriff was just directly elected executive authority, and of all the citizens in the function of the police work he was doing. I hope so, I'm correcting it now. Otherwise, the term sheriff refers to the king's appointed judicial and executive authority in England that still exists today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72997	From Robin Hood's time. Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Coli Kramaric said that the law so far has produced major crisis of government in local self-government, but comparing counterpart Kramaric with this amendment and supplementation proposal, then far more will now be the crisis of government, referendum, pre-referendum, elections after the referendum, and you as long-time head of local self-government should know, how will the elected mayor be directly ruled and implemented by programs that do not have a majority in the city council, or the representative body, will he have to trade?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u72999	PGS club, SBH, NDS, first respected representative of Nikola Ivanis. But if he's anything else. And then, after him, the esteemed representative, Pavlic, go ahead. ... Did you have a correction? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Did you really have one? Here are two witnesses, very reliable, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73000	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now you'll see why the power went out. Because of the fact that Mr Kramaric claimed that we should take examples of old democracy and cite Republika Srpska. He cited Republika Srpska and took an example of an old democracy. And that's why the power went out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73001	That was a little vague, but... It was not so, he did not count the Republic of Serbia as old democracies. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague, Kramarić, that's fine. Here you go. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73002	Comrade Kovacevic, may I begin? May I? May I? Come on, thank you very much to your colleagues from HSP. I'd still take advantage of the business rights that on behalf of the PGS club,... on behalf of the regional party club, I say something about amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government which, unfortunately, we don't appreciate the good ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We would be happier to amend and supplement the legislation that regulates the area that we as regional parties are very interested in, that we can assess as a quality step in reforming local self-government. We don't hold it that way. We think that the exact assessments that have been made today that the law is not consistent enough, that the law is unfortunately incorrect enough and that with a whole series of its solutions, it would cause confusion in the functioning of municipalities, cities and counties. Looking at the part of the proposed amendments and additions really hard to imagine what these members would look like in the integrated text of the law for a simple reason because it seems to us that neither the appearance nor then the sequencings of individual solutions were simulated. The recall of the leaders and deputies, the call for a referendum, the decision to call a referendum, the non-defining of qualified majority to call, the confusion over the percentages of the necessary signatures for the conference, then the solutions to how many citizens actually need to go to the referendum and what has been qualified most who have brought it are just some of the examples that say that this confusion will be significant and that we will have more problems in the functioning of local self-government with these solutions than even these solutions are present. In addition, we would like to highlight the abolition of articles 53, 56, 64, and 77. Chiefships are simply deleted and the name of the head, chief, mayor, mayor, is listed. What about everything that's been done so far as power has had a headship, with everything that's been done by the headship so far? Next, what about the budget? The budget will continue to be passed by the representative body. Who's preparing the budget? Who is the official draftor of the budget? Who's following and under what budgeting conditions? Therefore, we think that this is listed, and most of it mentioned in the debate so far enough that we can, as a club, consider that these amendments and additions would not establish a coherent relationship between the leaders and their deputies at local or regional level and representative bodies and that for this reason these solutions should not go further. We are advocates of the concept that we should pass an integrated law on local self-government, an integrated law on local self-government that regulates everything that is important for the functioning of municipalities and cities. In line with the reason for the existence of regional parties, we advocate the concept that this state, this Parliament, should adopt a Law on regional structure that will regulate everything that is necessary from power to fiscal problems for the level of the region. Without it, I think our journey to the European Union will be our... harmonising with the European Union's acquis in the area of locality, and in particular in the area of regional self-government, be in fact an extremely large obstacle in negotiations and in the phase of Croatia's integration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to this, we would use the reason for this law to ask one question to the people of the government and to those who deal with it. Has the time come to think about it in Croatia and to legally resolve how much an integrated law can experience its amendments and additions? Is it one change and a supplement, whether these are two changes and complements or they are 22, and then 5, more than the basic law or any law, there's absolutely nothing left. Amendments and additions, so changes and additions to changes and additions, and in the end there is no sign of what the law itself regulated. Since it is a law that treats the area of local and regional self-government, we would like to say just a few more words about what is at stake in Croatia right now, and in light of the negotiations and negotiations with the Union and in light of the overall process of integration of Croatia. I quote a European official who says Croatia is one of the few countries that seek Union membership without a clear regional policy, and such a policy is not only a condition for membership in the European Union but also a key Croatian national interest, the European official said. It further lists the whole series of laws that determine these areas, the Law on Special Care, the Law on Islands, the mountainous and mountainous area, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, today the law in question, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. However, despite the existence of all these laws, the European official finds: regardless of all this, Croatia still has no regional development strategy, no regional policy and the necessary administrative capacity to implement the regional policy. Well, that is clear because there is no region in the European sense of that word. It remains clear that it should be agreed that the government should lay down the basic principles of regional policy, general organisational, institutional, instrumental, programming and financial opportunities that would allow Croatia to develop as a regional country as all members of the European Union. We do this kind of partial approach as we do now and we assure ourselves that we are carrying out some radical reform of local and regional self-government we are not going anywhere, and for that reason we are probably not going anywhere. And I would remind you that according to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have an obligation on this subject because it is in Article 8. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement has clearly signed Croatia to adopt a national programme of regional development and, accordingly, the legislative framework. Instead of doing so, however, we are passing such partial laws as are due to the daily political needs of any party, any group, which are the result of party projections for the next election. In addition, to use the word, we mess with the issue of statistical regions, which is what the public is talking about these days. Last night, Croatian television spoke about it. We propose regional statistics, we assure Croatia that Zagreb should be in a statistical region that will have less than 75% of the EU's GDP, that Zagreb can draw money from funds. We're not going to tell the public that there are statistical regions of three levels plus two and that the statistical region can be any of our counties. Each of the counties of the Republic of Croatia can be the nuts statistical region of the third level and can therefore compete for European funds in accordance with its real GDP. But they do not have their own capacity, neither personnel nor in terms of power nor in terms of finance to participate in these projects. Therefore, the division into two regions where we continue to insist on fraud is Europe, as well as the fraud of European citizens. For that reason, indeed, and with that I will conclude, we hold that we can bring 101 amendments and additions to different laws, including the election of leaders, so on financing units of local self-government, and on powers, all of this we do together. We can finally have eleven laws for one area. Now about nine laws treat the area of local and regional self-government and we don't have an integrated system and therefore we don't function as it belongs. However, when we face the right stage of negotiations with the Union, when we face an alternative when we go to the Union, then we will have to adopt a national programme and then we will have to adopt a legislative framework and set up regions in Croatia as they are set up in the countries of the European Union. For this reason, we do not really support such suggestions as the one that is under discussion today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73003	Thank you. And the second part on behalf of the club, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73004	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the office! Here, then, let me talk more specifically about the law in this second part, i.e. on our main remark, which is why we will not support this proposed law. In fact, our main observation is that this law does not ensure a balanced, quality relationship between the mayor and the representative body. It is obvious, therefore, that a choice will soon be made on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, which will represent a fundamental change of government in the country at local level. This will lead to the separation of powers between the directly elected holder, the executive authority and the legislative authority i.e. a representative body in which the executive authorities have previously been subject to the control of the legislative authorities for the power to appoint mayors and members of the electoral commission. Since all the powers of the legislative and executive so far have been subject to some form of control by the representative body to detailed provisions describing the executive and determining the role and relations between the executive and the representative body were not so critical. However, since now, there will soon be a change in the local self-government that will get the directly elected executive holder in our opinion is critical that we have clear legal provisions defining the roles and relations of different local self-government institutions. the Commissioner and the representative body, i.e. Councils or congregations. There are of course two issues, on the one hand how strong the mayor should be, on the other hand, what is the level of powers of control given to the representative body. Unfortunately, we repeat and point out, in this law it is not detailedly proposed and should certainly be. We can ask a question but we don't have through this law to answer those questions. How often the mayor must answer to the representative body, which issues must be reported and how detailed the reports should be, whether there will be specific control committees within the representative body in order to obtain expertise in order to verify the work of executive institutions. Whether the Control Board will have investigative powers to obtain information that executive institutions do not freely provide. It is necessary to consider issues of control because insufficient control mechanisms put the ability of a representative body to play an appropriate role in local self-government on the margin. So we said this is the most important question we haven't received through this law. We hope, then, that this will happen until the second reading, and since there is no answer to our questions in this first reading, nor will we support this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73005	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73006	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! First, I will come from what I support, which is this Article 9 which literally states in the units of local or regional self-government in which members of national minorities are entitled to a proportionate representation in the representative body of the units of local and regional self-government of the second alternate chooses a representative body from the ranks of members of the national minority or members of the Croatian people in the units of local and regional self-government in which members of national minorities make up the majority of the population. I think that clears the misunderstandings at least when it comes to national minorities and that's certainly good and that's positive, so in that, we still need to welcome this intensity of what it is, regulation. For example, in Istria where you have a whole series of bilingual municipalities, where the statutes and international contracts regulate the issue, it is good that such a single misunderstanding has been removed. I find it a bit of funny gentlemen the provision of Article 13, which is that, well, it is not important, to decide on the acquisition of thoughts now on local self-government, on the acquisition and alienation of real estate, real estate units of local or regional (regional) self-government whose individual value does not exceed 0.5% of the amount of the budget and the unit for the current year, or up to 1 million kuna, respectively, within the limits of the annual budget. I find that provision funny for the reason we know Mr. Secretary of State, the lights, give us the lights. When we know that counties don't have any square meters of either agricultural, forest or building land. Let's say, what I know, the County of Istrian, so it's more or less and elsewhere, there's not one apartment, there's not one real estate, even the official premises are leased, and then what we're really discussing when local self-government is related. The local self-governments are mostly paupers, they're poor, they're one word of the body without power. We now paint citizens on the other hand that they are not known, some political entities and their budgets are not full of 100 million, 200 million kuna, maximum in those environments where the county numbers over 300, 400 thousand people, perhaps 300 million kuna. In one word, we don't need to fool ourselves anymore and let's tell people the truth. Instead, the elections need to be discussed in this House on the decentralisation of financial, political, material power. Here's to how many, 7-8 days ago, here when it was that Interpletion about the work of Slavonsko-Požega County we saw that they had autonomous funds in the budget of about 14 million kuna. Only the football club "Dinamu" can own more than 20 million kuna per year. I know that this government will not go in the direction of decentralisation of Croatia, did not go in the former because of this kind of government and those environments where it does not otherwise win political favor. However, as the Croatian political scene bipolarises, so Croatia is metropolised on the other hand. Zagreb is well on its way to vacuum Croatia. Of all the counties only the City of Zagreb and it seems to me Istria and it is because of the immigration of non-natural growth that have more inhabitants in 2001 than in '91. These are the meanings of the topics to be discussed and we are exclusively, only in this country are we dealing with the election of mayors, mayors, mayors as if the issue when the functioning of local self-government will solve anything. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It will only be resolved by clear development, these issues of functioning and local self-government will be resolved by decentralisation of money, but the money now controls the government, gives it to its own, takes it clearly from all and such a perspective is far from perspective. Once again, Croatia is metropolised, Zagreb is vacuuming Croatia, Istria is in a way Lesar, the world for itself. In 2006, we have more jobs than there were in the '90s. In 2006, we have less unemployment than the '90s. It's a two-and-a-half trade, maybe three times as big as the '90s. A year. Clearly, social rights, social status, etc., is incomparably behind how people lived in the '80s when God was still walking this country. But now to return to this famous article 40. b. First of all, whether it makes sense to quote all of this, the representative body will call a referendum on the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputies in case of inability to act when violating and failing to execute decisions of the representative body, when they are doing their work to the local (regional) regional unit of self-government, significant material damage, etc. Among other things, there is also talk of the incompetence of the mayor, mayor or mayor. Now the question is, will we be able to run this referendum whenever we want through one of these formulas? What are finally on the other side of the sanctions for those who launch the referendum and the referendum fails? Of course there can't be any. In Article 40c, it is literally stated that citizens have the right to propose to the representative body a referendum on the matter of resolution of the municipal chief, mayor and their deputy and representative body will decide on holding a referendum if the proposal referred to in the preceding paragraph supported at least 33% of voters enrolled in the list of municipal, city and county voters. Article 40b(5) says that the decision to dismiss the municipal chief has been made by the mayor if the majority of voters who went to the elections are declared to be responsible for the resolution. Now gentlemen, think about it, what is the majority of 33%? That's 16.56%. Theoretically Mr. Mršić said that when a man comes to the referendum, it is clear that this will not happen before he can replace the legitimately elected mayor, mayor or mayor. What is a problem and it is my constant impression that the gentlemen who table here in Zagreb write laws exclusively for the opportunities that exist in Zagreb, in large counties, in large cities. That 33%, that's fine, that's acceptable size. But what about those small municipalities that Mr. Sabati spoke of, where you have 400, 600, thousands of people and such municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is a brother, brother of 200. These are municipalities that have 2, 3, max 5 million kuna. A number of NGOs have bigger budgets than these small municipalities, and on the other hand they represent the the thesis that power is in political parties. Right, it's in HDZ, the SDP that's being exchanged into power, which has a budget that's 50% of the gross social product, but all of this other people would say is a storm. Is it possible to manipulate 33% in these municipalities? Is it possible, for example, to collect 100 signatures here and go simply to elections and somehow manipulate election results? Think about it. It is not the same to write a law for one environment like Zagreb, Pula, Rijeka, Split, for the county one or one, or for the 200th municipality on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. If it's someone for civil democracy, it's Damir Cain. If someone for direct selection is not only the mayor, mayor, mayor, but also this councilman, then I am also an MP, but again I will say that the best law regarding the elections the Republic of Croatia had was there in 1993 when we elected 50% of the councilors directly, 50% from the list. We said let's go to direct elections. OK.... To me as strangers suits me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't mind that. But once again, gentlemen, consider these possibilities of manipulation. Manipulation is certainly possible with these changes, referendums, and it's kind of like the law wrote the key, the essence of this law. However, the essence of decentralisation, police and regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia, is in strengthening the autonomous subjectivity of the region, not that we are constantly talking about the mayor's election, the mayor, I don't know the chief and so on. But clearly, everything we do is wrong. We build the house from the roof to the foundations. The question is, why? And that's why everything that works in this country works badly. Nothing's been said, it's all improvisation. We do everything superficially without will, it just doesn't work out, and we're not going to get any better. We said, once again I'll say we're for a direct choice. Let's get into it, let's try it. They've got everyone, and so will we. But all the issues of this local self-government mean what marginality we are constantly opening but also the system, we are not talking about the decentralisation system. Croatia, I guess we all agree here, and highly centralised and highly bureaucratised and metropolised, someone would add corrupt and controlled. And therefore Croatia as such is inconclusive, slow and ineffective as a state and that means that it is our authority. This one, the former, the local authorities, all the authorities together. We can fool ourselves, but cosmetic changes won't solve the problem. Croatia will sooner or later have to bite into decentralisation, not only talk about the elections. In this year, so until the election, we have a circus, how much longer? 12 months. So the centralization isn't going to work. Coming to power, the new government won't go again. So this process needs to be initiated. How? Probably from the bar up. Because the relationship between the government and those environments where the government doesn't match and the local environment is literally tragic. For the first 6 months from the State budget, we will speak when it is executed, Istria has received a million and 500 thousand kuna plus 60 million kuna for "ipislon" but we are the only one who is led as a budgetary item by this investment that always goes after these extra budget funds of "Croatian Roads" and so on. But I repeat, a million and 500 thousand kuna for 1.1, 30.6. Clearly there are salaries and so on, but in capital investment millions and 500 thousand kunas. ... I repeat, I don't mind, I didn't hear you, I don't have anything... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Istrian government fills the budget 4.5 times more than any other county in the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I'll tell you again. Istra can say today that in Croatia in 2006 there are more employees than in the 1990s, there are fewer unemployed in 2006 than in the 1990s. She's got three times as much trade as she was in 1990. Someone is also responsible for this, but they also live as I said before, three times worse than they were in the '80s when God walked this earth. So I repeat, I have nothing against direct choices. That suits us, but I'll tell you one more time that our best local choices were in 1993. For the end of this proposal in my court is unspeakable. This proposal on selecting minority deputies as you suggest state secretaries he is absolutely correct, it should be supported, it is the greatest quality of the law, but I think in other parts of the law is at least superficial and I fear that the next day he as such will cause greater problems mainly in small areas, two hundred small municipalities than he will benefit all of us. We will face the possibility that in a year we may have a half, not 20th, but perhaps 50th of these refundes and such one situation, such a situation will again not contribute to the democratisation of the local or the Republic of Croatia or to the functioning of local self-government. One word should be restrained, but it is also necessary to welcome the solutions that you have clearly decoded, in spirit and international standards, offered to elect minority representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73007	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations by respected representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73008	Well, here's my sweet colleague, Damir Cain, while he was talking, the power went out, I think it was sabotage, and he rightly cried out that he needed the light, and he needed to enlighten the man. But to correct an incorrect quote. A colleague of Cain said that the City of Zagreb was given to Dinam by 20 million kuna. That's incorrect. The other night on television we heard from Mr. Luština's office that only that office gave 24 million kuna, holding 7 and a half million kuna. In this Holding there is Elektra, Plinara, Vodavod, Channeling and so on and they will advertise at Maksimir Stadium because of course they are afraid of competition. And I heard, the tourist community also gave 3 and a half million kuna. There's gotta be another commercial at Dinam's stadium. I say that as a Dinamian, so it's not 20 million but more than 40 million kuna for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73009	Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73010	He incorrectly stated that nothing works in Croatia, that no decentralisation has been carried out because what works can indeed be pointed out with pride that decentralisation is moving, and that is exactly what the amendment of the law confirms. A colleague also said that wages have been increased and unemployment has been reduced in Istria, so absolutely incorrect and contradictoryly, a fellow MP said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73011	Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73012	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I can't fix the whole speech. That didn't even work, so I'm just going to make a few allegations of guilt. So, first, he says, "Manipulation with referendum is possible." So I think this law prevents manipulation. Well, he can't have ten people changing mayors and mayors when he remembers. Well, that has its price, finally and its justification, and how many people will go to the polls afterwards, depending on whether they want to replace someone or not? Next, we heard a series of false allegations about the state. We are neither better nor worse than the singing Europe except that they are receiving us, not us. If we had received them, be assured, they would have found for them all that they have found for us. And thirdly, he says, "He lives three times worse now than before 1990." So I think at least three times as many people suffer because he's not a state since before '90, but the standard is at least five times higher, the only problem that costs that standard. People have to pay for everything they didn't have, and water, and phones, and phones, and cars and everything else, so I think that's the only problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73013	And the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73014	Thank you, Mr. President. Among other things, counterpart Cain said all authorities from top to bottom, from state to local self-government units are bureaucratic, ineffective, laws are not implemented and he mentioned corruption. I think it is incorrect, absolutely incorrect, that it is a flat-rate assessment and that such a highly-positioned politician as Mr. Cain speaking in this House of Higher Education, that it does not go in favour of Croatia, that it goes to the harm of Croatia as a state and all units of local self-government on the one hand. And then we should not be surprised when we talk about competitiveness, corruption, when these world scales where Croatia is, when so responsible people who should be responsible say these things. On the other hand, I believe that the relationship between the mayor and the representative bodies of the local self-government units is balanced, and not as you say it is not, that there are no relations and complete that, I conclude, I think your exposure, your statement here in the Croatian Parliament has one nihilistic, one nihilistic approach, one nihilistic view, and I don't think that you contribute to democracy and rules of play in Croatia, when it comes to democracy and citizens' relations to government, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73015	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja, club of representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73016	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. The Croatian Party of Retired Party Club finds it very difficult to raise hands for the proposal of this law and in the first reading, and we agree that matter is not simple, that it should be approached with special attention and strive for a comprehensive consensus. In Croatia, foreign pensioners think and we want to believe that this is not a law on which to mock a political match but should jointly develop a quality and functional electoral system and a system of local, regional, or regional self-government. The Croatian Retired Break, i.e. representatives of the Croatian Retired Party, has already pointed out from this pay phone that Croatia needs a single integrated Law on Local and Regional, or Regional Self-Government, which contains chapters on elections for representative bodies, elections by the executive authority, electoral procedure, relations between the representative and the executive body, and all that is important I repeat, for the quality functioning of the local, regional and regional self-government systems. Since these shifts that we want not to happen through which we might look, so that we do not have an integrated text of the law through which we could look at all the advantages and disadvantages of individual legal solutions, we tend to resort to already spoken views of the club representatives so that this reading can be considered a previous reading. Although we in Croatia are questioning the effects of the direct election of the executive government, so the mayor, mayor and mayor, we are prepared to respect the will of the citizens and their increasingly pronounced wishes to directly elect executive power. This could certainly have the effect of a greater voter voter vote, which also means greater legitimacy for representative and executive power. That is why we do not want the fertile soil for some future affairs to be in this law, and we are asking for the greatest responsibility of the promoters since there is a lot of innovation for citizens in the principle of trying and making mistakes. And for one more reason we want what happened in Labin, as much as my colleague Cain has the right to, in establishing the city government in Labin, that the IDS had a relative majority, which I confess to him, I would like to believe and point out the legitimate will of the IDS to fight to regain power but it is very embarrassing what he did with our coalition partner so far in Labin. So let's not talk about political trade, throw first in our backyard and move on. And since I mentioned you, please make great efforts in Istria and executive authorities to make great efforts to fill urban, municipal and county budgets. But please don't let your colleague Cain get so much praise, because then we won't really get anything out of the state budget, and we need it for some capital projects, because eventually he'll tell us, so you can handle it yourself when you're so effective. Therefore, I have no intention of polluting, but I am taking the opportunity because I have plenty of time to give you this kind of friendly advice. Furthermore, let's go to a specific point of view, so this was general attitudes about this law, we go to some concrete or misunderstandings, or we mean lack of law. First, Article 40.b where it says that the representative body, therefore, describes cases when the representative body will issue a referendum on the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and his deputy. Look at this third indent, it says that it will do so when it is done by the unit of local, or regional (regional) self-government significant material damage and now we come to a situation if the referendum succeeds and if citizens show him no confidence then everything is fine, then the Commissioner will be appointed and then after a certain time the elections for executive power will likely be organised. However, if, in the justified case, the representative body issued a referendum, the referendum failed, who pays the price for material damage made by the mayor to the city or the municipal chief, the municipality's chief. He pays the price of a representative body. It means whether because he was wrong or wrong in the procedure or now the representative body is a collateral victim of the lack of this regulation. So we think that this part, that Article 40.b, needs to be studied very closely and, in some ways, come up with all possible situations and very precisely define them. I don't think we can afford to penalize a representative body like this based on a certain factual condition. Secondly, I think that in Croatia, we also think that the prerogative of Article 40c is about 33% of voters enrolled in the voter list of municipalities, cities or counties that need to sign their referendum. Look, we have one criterion, we have criteria for a country-level referendum where the 10% of citizens are, and here we have a 3.3 times the municipal and city criteria. Which makes it a municipality, a city or a county so much more important than the state that it has such a sharp criterion. I'm not saying there doesn't have to be any different criteria, but I think this is a prearranged 33% voter criterion and we think it can be intervened there. We also have objections if they are elected, one deputy mayor chooses why not choose the other. So I guess we know in which city which national minority or which national minority or majority is and where we have to choose more deputy mayors. Why wouldn't they be the one already running for mayor would not stand by and propose a candidate for a national minority. So we're not saying this is a bad idea, but I think we can talk about one option and another. About that, there's probably a more competent colleague, Radin, so let him say something, we can talk about it freely, but I have one question that I want to clear up. Secondly, in the article, therefore, in Article 13 of the amendments and additions, if we have, because we are working on the Law on the handover of the authorities in which certain abuses of positions are prevented in these transitional periods, if by budget, if we sanction the mayor for the violation and spending of the budget money then we consider that or this one, we believe that this provision on the limit to a million kuna or 0.5 amount of budget, I think it is quite unnecessary. And last remark, I don't understand, you're going to have to explain to me how we're going to conduct the elections in May 2009, and this law will come into force on 17 May 2009. So we'll do everything, all the preparations we'll do according to the law that won't be in force. I don't know how that works. I may be wrong, but I'm setting up here a nomotechnical dilemma and a legal dilemma whether it's okay or it could be very easy or April 15th, 2009 like May 17th. That's the dilemma I want an answer to. So once again at the end of my presentation on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club, I point out that it is very difficult to raise your hand for this Law in the first reading and that we are inclined to resort to all those proposals that were made in front of the representatives' clubs, it is obvious that this is considered a previous reading. Because we really only want one thing, we want a quality system, a whole system of local, regional, or regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73017	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73018	Now... When SDP, HSU, etc., went with HDZ to Labin, that was fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that there's been a change in government and SDP and IDS are returning that power, it's embarrassing. That's what you said, Mr. Hrelja. And Damir Cain wasn't in Istria then, unfortunately. He was up for the election because I know that we went to the polls to get a lot more votes than we did two years ago. Not only did IDS get a relative majority in the previous local elections. We got 45% of the votes. With 45% of the votes won, we were unable to form power. And finally, and unfortunately, that's right, embarrassing. Now, that's embarrassing. Well, we're not finally asking us to give us anything in Istria than to just take less away from us. Because this colonial relationship is truly extremely unspectived and no longer leads to anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73019	We're going to an individual debate now. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73020	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Palaric and his associate, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government does not create an impression but indeed offers a partial solution which does not follow the overall changes in the entire system of decentralisation and the new role of the head of the body of the local self-government, mayor, mayor and mayor who are elected by direct means and who then necessarily have a different attitude towards the council, or council towards them. This is how we got a bill that essentially on the old structure, an oscillating structure that makes creative and good mayors impossible, and this is what Col. Mršić, who is just respecting the law to the limit, simply disabled in the further development of his city, his unit, or the unit of local self-government that is headed. Namely, why is that? Because it's just full of mouth decentralization, but it didn't happen. At least it didn't happen so much, and it didn't happen to the citizens of the expected extent. In fact, we've had a retrograde process in recent years. It's on the scene as formal and even more informally, centralisation, primarily centralisation of funds. Still, the state disowns certain functions of the units in favour of the units of local self-government, but the funds are not given. Therefore, what seems to be. This is the fact that when citizens of any draft law, whether tax or other charges are taken, such a law shall enter into force immediately. Eventually on the 8th day of publication. And when they do, it's a promise in 2009. Good fellow Mršić claimed speaking for the SDP club, then the government gives carrots on a long, long stick. That is also the situation with this bill, which eventually, not only in general but also in particular suffers a number of illogicalities. The illogicalities that are large not only in terms of content but also in terms of nomotechnics themselves suffers serious criticism. We discussed it yesterday, please, it wasn't a month ago, months ago or last year. But yesterday we discussed the amendments to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, so a small one of the amendments of three or four articles, we usually get such proposals of the law, so that's how the proposer will try to solve the situation of giving, i.e. disabling the manipulations of so-called. in writing, although the resignation should be a resignation on the day it is given in any form and at any time and anywhere it should be irrevocable. We're a long way from such an arrangement. So, yesterday we're discussing giving written resignation, so we're talking about resignation, and here today we're discussing this proposal that's speaking, I'm asking you about resignations quite another matter, and it tells the municipal chief, the mayor, or the mayor, and their deputy term of office, it stops by law if he resigns and, as appropriate, the rules on the delivery of the prescribed General Administrative Procedure Act. So is there one meaningful act of the body that suggests this law? Well, this doesn't suggest any other body, or any other ministry. Every day, different solutions to the same questions. And if she gets rid of the resignation, then she should be universal to all officials whether it's about council members whether it's about the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. It's perfectly logical and it's always been that way. But no, here's the resignation in this way... In a way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That doesn't make any sense... It will be a general disturbance, and the body that is now proposed by the Central State Office needs it, which is why the name tells him that he needs to sort something out, not disturb the situation to the extreme limits because the practice has already done so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The relationship between mayors and councils, it's a key problem that we all expected would be solved in a new, more qualitative, qualitatively different way, but it didn't happen here. However, the mayor's role was reduced to great fear that it would not be about the sheriff. We must not be given certain powers and even great powers to a certain person or certain bodies if control mechanisms are such that they will naturally sanction him in violation of the law. Well, that's the part of personalizing responsibility, but there's no talking about it. The proposal therefore suggests that the proposal suggests that the mayor or head of the units of local self-government will be able to participate in the work of the council or assembly. Well, he's the one who's an active participant, that's, he's the executive authority that doesn't just fit the council, but he also has to have certain initiatives. And very specific. What we expected and what matters is not only what is in the law but more what is not. And the most recent changes to this one and the same law that allowed major cities to freely manage, maintain, build public roads, and in terms of health institutions, home health, influences therefore on issues or decisions and to have the authority to issue building permits, which assumes the decentralisation of the essential functions of the state that the biggest remarks have on such situations, did not happen here. Here, therefore, it is not only in these specific situations that the question and the means but consciously the will of the state not to give up such powers. And for what? There's also a question. It's a question of illegal construction one big problem. But the question of how does someone get a building permit in the same or round area where it collapses, where construction is forbidden for one, and for another the next day is allowed. That's the problem. And precisely in those countries where the fact of illegal construction is absolutely unknown, but it is known everywhere that the greatest terrain and the possibility of corruption is right on the issue of building permits. So I don't see here any reason why the state wouldn't let that happen if they did, if it had already been legally allowed to do so, why not do so. In particular, the state has big and huge concerns about a whole series of tasks, the law has made it possible but still existing and further developments and changes do not happen. It is something that is truly serious and that does not exist, does not suffer, or has no logical explanation. So, the role, to go back to the role of the Commissioner himself who shouldn't be even a sheriff, because then it has to be legally disabled and sanctioned, but it doesn't have to be a ficus. However, there are still in the law, i.e. in the proposal to amend the rubber norms, so it is not known that the unit leader of local self-government will be removed if, by his work, please, self-government, the local self-government unit produces significant material damage. And why this considerable material damage? Isn't that enough material damage? Isn't it the same enough that reduces the value of local self-government units? With the highest instance, we have heard from a representative of the government and the prime minister himself that the state will do everything to protect and property owned by local self-government units. But that's not what's happening. In fact, we have an example of Posedar, very interesting, that the state has freely donated the most valuable part of its property to the municipality, the municipality of Posedarje, which then gave to a large company of Tobos, it was announced as one of the largest investments in public-private partnership, and nowhere in the world or in Europe the public-private partnership is imagined so, first of all, not in tourism, but let us now let those branches, where the buildings do not remain owned by the state. And nowhere in that contract does it say what will happen unless everything that is provided for in the contract is built, so it is left if it does not happen that land for 2-3 euros belongs to private purposes. So much for the state's care of her property and here's an example of how the state worried about its own land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73021	Okay. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. First. Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73022	Mr. President! Inaccurately, the colleague pointed out and identified the resignation from the Proposal for a Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, as this first law speaks of the written resignation of a member of the representative body and, in this second one, we are now discussing, the municipal chief, mayor or mayor, if he resigns, the delivery will be considered as provided for in the rules on delivery laid down in the General Administrative Procedure Act. So this is a more special law that speaks exclusively of the resignations of the mayor, mayor and mayor and this one speaks of the resignations of a representative body. You've misstated it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73023	Second. Dear Representative Anto Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73024	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Honorable representative said that the law is not on the relation of decentralisation which is indeed not true because so far, in all amendments and additions and in the basic law, all provisions were on decentralisation, true in the scope of work and decision-making of each of the units of local and regional self-government. So these changes are on the line, too. I can only say and explain what the former coalition government actually tried to determine in decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation and had no effect. ... It's short notice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In income tax, Mr. Mršić rebelled but it was good that it was nothing, in income tax...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73025	That's what you're going to bring out in the debate, not through the firm to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73026	I'm just saying they didn't do anything in decentralisation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73027	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73028	Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of mine says it's a big problem if there are some with a building permit amongst the falling objects. That's no problem at all. There were times at Vira when the facilities could be legalized, so people didn't want to go through the system but I don't care what they can do to me. But the problem is when you and your government let illegally built objects connect people to infrastructure because it prompted the awakening of exactly illegal construction. And the problem is, here's the thing, even though the mayor, let's say Mljetta, sells state land and you still praise him for being capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73029	Dear representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73030	Mr. President. In her debate, counterpart Anticevic presented several incorrect allegations, and I will only list one. I quote: "...a building permit is obtained in an area where illegal buildings are destroyed." If that's how you have to specify a place. You've been to Zadar, you've been to Veli Drvenik and other coastal places, you have to name it. Until then it's not true because your statements are similar to those of the bad guys who are destroying illegal buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73031	Dear Representative Marko Širac, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73032	Mr. President. A respected colleague, MP Anticevic, stated that some houses are being torn down in places where construction is forbidden, and some houses are not being torn down. Of course that's not true. They do not collapse to those who have been in the past, and especially during the past government, legalized their facilities, and those who have not built objects in accordance with the current laws of this country, they certainly need and will be torn down by their houses, regardless of what they are legalized to remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73033	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73034	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs. Law-announced so-called so-called. The local presidential system certainly requires and changes, amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. It is primarily about defining the relationship between the directly elected mayor, municipal mayor or mayor, according to the council or the local or regional self-government unit assembly. Rights in relation to each other and vice versa, certain rights and powers which so far had the headship of the units are transferred to the mayor. Of course, such organized relationships will not mean two completely separate tracks by which one will drive or by another, but they will very much intertwine. I think it is unquestionable and it says that the mayor or mayor must attend council meetings when he has to write it, must attend council or assembly meetings, answer questions in writing or oral form and all that his function carries. Article 8 of the amendment states under which circumstances the elected may terminate the term of office by virtue of the law or after a referendum on the issue of resolution by the representative body. The holding of a referendum on resolution may also propose at least 33% of the voters of the unit and the representative body, in this case, to call a referendum on resolution. And which is significant, if the representative body issues a referendum on its proposal and the motion on resolution fails, the representative body shall be disbanded but of course not if the referendum is called on a proposal of at least 33% of voters, Article 40c. Article 9 of these proposed amendments prescribes that the municipal chief, mayor or mayor have a deputy. But in units of local or regional self-government where members of national minorities are entitled to a proportionate representation within the representative body, the second deputy elects a representative body from the ranks of members of the national minority or from the ranks of the Croatian people in self-government units in which members of the national minority make up the majority of the population. In any case, this puts the minority in an equal position, either in the ranks of the national minority or in the ranks of the majority people, which is the case in a number of units of local self-government. All other proposed amendments accompanied by such a local presidential system are in function of the same or in the existing law delete what is contrary to the changes previously listed. All these changes will certainly improve the work of units of local and regional self-government, they define the powers and obligations of the executive authority and, of course, the measure in the relations of the executive authority of the directly elected and representative body. This may be important because it avoids the possibility that we now have to admit, however, quite present that the executive authority was a little hostage of the representative body especially when it comes to coalition agreements and compromises. We discussed both the resignations and the public records yesterday, the transitions, etc. With this system, it's getting a little immeasurable, even though these were already according to what Mr. Secretary of State said yesterday in the prominence. Of course those crossings, resignations, etc. and in the future, it will be, however, far less important so that they will be caused by material or ideal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73035	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73036	Well, colleague Stengl, we may not have the same texts of the law, but this law really does not speak at all about the relationship between the directly elected mayor and the representative body because it says this, that the mayor or the directly elected head has an obligation to attend the meetings of the representative body and to answer these sessions to the question of the council. That's what the mayor has right. And the representative body has all the powers of this world, including the authority to make concrete decisions up to 0.5% of the annual budget, or the mayor cannot decide within the budget or more than one million kuna. So, just so much for that relationship between the mayor and this. For example, the mayor, when the president of a representative body which may be a component different from the mayor's political commitment does not want to call a meeting of two and a half months of a representative body to make those decisions that the mayor cannot make. The mayor does not have the authority to convene a representative body's session to ensure the functioning of the local self-government unit because this law gives him absolutely no authority. It simply comes down to one official who has to obey a representative body that can indeed be composed of different political orientations. And at each session, the issue of calling a referendum may be raised to the same mayor, which should be voted on by a quarter of the council plus one councilman in order to call a referendum. Well, in what situation, in what atmosphere will that directly elected mayor do it? But it's just one of the many unresolved issues of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73037	Thank you. Mr. Stengl's answer. Here you go. Replica Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73039	My colleagues and colleagues, our current course of debate and even the most tolerated approach to this text, we have seen the results with an assessment insufficient. All the clubs said that they couldn't support it in the first reading and suggest that this be with the previous reading. They used expressions that it was an unspecified text, that it was an inaccurate text, an unconstitutional text, an uncoordinated text with other laws, a non-precise text, etc. I have one big request to my HDZ colleagues to ask for a brief break, to agree with the motionary, to suspend this debate here, to withdraw this proposal, to make it clear to our Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, according to the Union of Cities, to complete this text. The very reasoned proposals here are presented why this text cannot pass in the first reading and then return to the plenary session. I don't think this makes any sense that we're still struggling like this, that we're humiliating each other, that we're stalling, that we're tearing this place apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73040	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Ivica Clem. He's gone. He's losing it right on this wheel. Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73041	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! According to the current law, the executive body is elected by the executive authority and is dependent on the representative body because, as it stands for it, it can also vote against him. We discussed the Law on the Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. We have not yet adopted it because we have delayed the adoption of this law and adopted it until the final debate on this law, and we have said that we will then adopt and comply with these two laws together, but the fact is that now in a different way, it defines and regulates the division of powers between the directly elected holder of the executive authority and the representative body. I must admit that I also think that it might not be a bad idea to think about a whole new law or legislation on local self-government because there are already many amendments and additions to laws and different areas that are regulated by individual amendments and additions. And so, I'm sure we'll make sure that by the time this law comes into force we adopt a new law. There's been a lot of questions here about what's going on right now. The fact is that the amendments and additions of the laws no longer regulate what professional services do, do not regulate those issues that were previously given to the headship because the whole role of the headship was taken by one person, which is the mayor, the mayor or the mayor, and all that previously applied to the headships now refers to those persons who are directly elected and they independently choose the circle of their associates with whom they will work and lead a particular municipality, city or county. I would kind of comment in a way almost critically refer to certain provisions of these proposed amendments and additions. In particular, in Article 4 where Article 35.b is added, it is said that the municipal chief, I will not read any further, twice a year submits a report on his work to the representative body and, in addition, he is obliged, upon request of the representative body, to inform the body of his work within 30 days. I think that in practice, we might have a blockage of a system that the executive body's 90 percent of its time deals with writing a report and reporting what it's doing at the request of the representative body. I think that should be limited to maybe twice a year maximum, and I believe that enough is the annual report of the executive body. Article 5 is said to add a new item, which says the representatives' board meetings are attended by the municipal chief, the mayor, or the mayor and his deputy, so they must attend. The practice will many times in life bring the situation that they will have to be somewhere else that day when a council or assembly session is held, I read from this proposal that they must be present otherwise there is no doubt, so they attend, at least in the final proposal of the law, I suggest that we make a change in a way that one of the commissioners, or his deputy, must be present, come on, it would somehow hold water. Article 40a, which is added, regulates the issue of termination of the term of office to the Executive Authority, and I think that these situations in which it may generally be worth the provision that the mayor, mayor or mayor in the given and described situations may be replaced by his deputy because the deputies did not have the circumstances created by the first elected mayor or mayor, so the deputy has not ceased his business capacity, the deputy has not been sentenced to two months in prison, the deputy has not changed his place of residence, and they have been chosen as a team, as packages, so if the first man has changed the circumstances, the second man can replace the first one by the end of the term, and I do not think there is a need to go with the commissioner and to call new elections. Article 40.b leaves a lot to the political assessment of the representative body, which will often in practice be the opposite of that, of which the elected head belongs, and it will often assess and assess, on the basis of political criteria, what is therefore incompetence, when infringement and failure to implement the decisions of the representative body, when material damage has been done and then, by virtue of these assessments, the representative body will make a decision on the calling of a referendum. I would delete this article 40.b or not at all. I think it would be enough for citizens to launch the initiative and therefore suggest holding a referendum, because here we will have a situation that every little vote of no confidence will be given to the mayor, mayor or mayor, and in particular the final provision in this proposed article 40.b, which says that the decision on resolution is made by most voters who have gone to the referendum, which can theoretically be 5 or 10 people who can decide on the resolution of the executive head. I would leave Article 40c just as it was given here, in order to define the number of citizens who have to go to the referendum in order for this referendum to be valid. And the last thing I want to say is look back a little bit on Article 13 that regulates the right of the executive authority to be available to the movement and real estate. So he says that the mayor, or mayor or mayor, decides to acquire and... movable and property units of local or regional self-government whose individual value does not exceed 0.5% of the budget and the unit for the current year, i.e. up to a million kunas within the annual budget limits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a large number of units of local self-government that have a budget of up to a million kunas, two of these small municipalities. So the mayor of a municipality that has up to a million kunas of budgets could only have 5,000 kunas on its own. Up to five. The chief who has up to 10 million kuna budgets could have up to 50 thousand kuna on his own, for everything else the decision must be made by the representative body. Such a provision will cause a lot of technical, implementing problems in practice, and I suggest that the Proposer try to think about classes within which it could be moved depending on the size of the budget and just one more thing, such regulation as is given in the law will lead to us having in practice an inflatable budget specifically. And in one small municipality, the own sources of income are 500 or 800 thousand kuna, but the chief will propose to put an additional two million kuna donations from this ministry, two million kuna donations from the other ministry for one single reason that this budget would ultimately look bigger, or that he himself could have more alone, regardless of which such a budget would not be realized. Here, I conclude my debate, it seemed quite critical, but critical of these few articles I think it is good to hear them too, given that the first reading I believe that the applicants will respect many of the remarks or suggestions they have heard in the debate and that we will ultimately have a better or better-quality law that will well regulate these issues that are very important for the functioning of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73042	Replica, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73043	Here, fellow Jelkovac, you have simply made me firm in your conviction and in my belief that this law should be withdrawn and that we should stop dealing with this House something that will be in 2009. We're only concerned about local self-government. We're worried about what's going to happen in 2009. What happens to taxes in 2009 is not what we worry about. Yeah? Just local self-government. And we don't worry, and we don't discuss what happens tomorrow. So finally, you from the ruling majority, once you've given this Law on the Communist Economy to the offices of relations. You promised that in 2004. Give the new Law on the financing of local self-government units. Give the Law on Public Roads to change that cities get some of the money from the toll and from the gasoline. So let the cities that gives them the Law on Local Self-Government to establish health homes, to care for secondary schooling. So all this Law on Local Self-Government allows, but you don't want to give a bill that will allow it to be realized, but now we're going to tell a story about what's going to happen in 2009, and at the same time you're saying you're hoping that a new law will be written in time. So let's not just tell the citizens in Karlovac, the prime minister there says in 2007 there will be fiscal decentralisation. There should be a Law on fiscal decentralisation here, but we are not discussing it but discussing how citizens will hold a referendum in 2009. Citizens must live both tomorrow and 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73044	This is a replica to the government, not a colleague of Jelkovac, so please if it is already a replica to be related to the discussion of this predecessor rather than a new debate, a new thesis on the debate. We've got another... Answer? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73045	In connection with what Mr. Mršić was saying. The fiscal decentralisation mentioned by the prime minister can only go in a way that the prime minister mentions, that the prime minister proposes it and that such a proposal should come to this Parliament and that the parliament then discuss it and adopt it. So far, the prime minister has achieved everything he has said, so I am quite sure that he will also make his promises about fiscal decentralisation, and a series of these laws that you have mentioned are or are being drawn up, some have been adopted, some have been discussed. I'll just mention the Law of Great Cities that didn't solve everything, but he's done a lot, that's all. Therefore, your city and my city and many other cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73046	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73047	Thank you very much. You suggested or said that article 40.b, which is proposed as an addition to the law, is too high and should be left out in your opinion. Look what a huge trap and danger there is. This law calls on citizens and representative bodies to replace directly elected leaders through referendums, but does not say that this referendum will be held under the referendum law but opens or introduces a new category of referendum. Because if it were to say here that this referendum goes according to this law then this 40.c article where it requires 33% of voters is the opposite, because the referendum law gives citizens 20% of the voter's signature to request a referendum, not 33. And this definition means that two citizens, two voters can go to a referendum and replace the mayor, mayor or mayor because there is no provision for how many of them to go to a referendum to be valid, and this law is not the basis for this referendum, and this is some kind of a call, a half-reference or a referendum play. In the absence of Article 40.b and the remainder of Article 40.c, you have an even worse situation, so that the request for a referendum can be held at each session. Once the referendum model was copied, then the state office had to rewrite our solution to the end, that after the failure of the referendum a new request for a referendum could not go within a year, that we would not play every hour of the referendum. That sequel to someone's sentence fell out of the copying of our model and that's why it's such a bad suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73048	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Representative Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73049	Mr. Lesar was now talking more about the referendum law and less about what I was saying. But the fact that we concentrate on this law then Article 40b contains a lot of political assessments and evaluations that will in practice lead to very frequent responsibilities. This situation can be regulated and based on what Mr. Lesar was saying, based on some other proposals. What I mentioned in my debate, the Proposer sees and finds this compromise solution that will satisfy both of us, which will be in accordance with the referendum law and which will practically solve what is really our fundamental goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73050	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mrs. Jagoda Mardic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73051	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Palaric, colleagues and colleagues. When we discussed the Law on the Direct Selection of Leaders of Local and Regional Self-Government, we at the SDP Club warned of the necessity to define clearly the relationship between the representative and the executive body of the authorities in the event of direct election of the mayor, mayor and mayor. The definition of these relations is a prerequisite to ensure stability of functioning and balance between the representative body and the executive authority. The law on local and regional (regional) self-government is a fundamental law establishing a system of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. As this law lays down the powers of the authorities of local units, their relations and responsibilities then it is clear that in the event of a direct election of the mayor, mayor and mayor, amendments to the applicable law should be made. However, this bill of law that is before us would be joined by all those who rated it bad, unspeakable and superficial. I would refer only to some of the solutions proposed by this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. In Article 8, a new Article 40a is added, which speaks of when the municipal mayor, mayor and mayor ends the term of office by force of the law, saying among other things: If the suspension of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, has taken place in the calendar year in which regular elections are held, and no early elections for the selection of municipal mayor, mayor or mayor will be held in that unit before they are held. But this is how it is defined, in fact, that it is not clear who will act as a leader until new elections are held, because it is not mentioned that the Commissioner will be appointed or that someone else will take over. And since I've already mentioned the Commissioner then I think that actually the Government should not, in certain cases, determine the Commissioner, if we are already in favour of strengthening local and local administrations, then let us also allow the representative body of that unit of local administration to appoint a man who will serve as commissioners. Furthermore, in Article 40a, he said that if the deputy mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality, the early elections would not be called. It is not clear behind such a defined article how a new deputy will be elected, or does that mean that it will actually continue to work without a deputy. The general relationship between the leader and his deputy is not really clearly defined. Article 40b speaks of when and how the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputy may be resolved by the representative body. This is only about the possibility of a resolution through a referendum. I believe that there should also be a need to specify the reasons why the council or the assembly can resolve the person in charge and without calling a referendum and, in addition, the law should clearly define what is meant by significant material damage as stated here, because otherwise I fear that such a defined provision of this law actually leaves room for different manipulations. Then get in the article... says that in the event that no decision is taken in the referendum on the discharge of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will disband the representative body and appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out the tasks of the representative body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what does that mean now? Does it mean that this commissioner will act as a whole representative body all the time until the regular elections are held or early elections will be held for a representative body which, in my opinion, would be only logical and acceptable because there is no reason for early elections to be discussed in the event that the term of office ceases, and in the event of the disbandment of the representative body, elections will not be discussed but one man will act as the entire city council or even the entire county assembly. In addition, in the event of a discharge procedure being initiated, the mayor or the mayor shall automatically indicate that the resolution procedure is being initiated for both their deputy and vice-versa. In practice, we can also have a situation that wants to resolve the deputy, whether that applies to the leader as well. It is not clear from Article 40(b) proposed. Therefore, these relations should be clearly defined and specified in order not to leave in practice the possibility of different interpretations of the provisions of the law and of course different manipulations. And finally something about percentages that have already been talked about here. I think Article 40b and 40c are on the rise. In fact, Article 40b says that the decision to resolve the head man will be made if most of the voters who went to the referendum came forward for the resolution. In practice, this percentage can be very small and recent elections have shown that voters are increasingly abstinent so that it may happen for example that 15 or 16% of voters or perhaps even less. So the municipal chief, mayor or mayor will be resolved with that function by 8 or 9% of voters or even less than that percentage, and on the other hand in Article 40c, it is said that the proposal to hold a referendum on the issue of resolution of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputy can be submitted to citizens and that proposal is valid if it is signed by at least 33% of voters listed in the list of voters. If we bear in mind that, in practice, a leader can be resolved with, for example, a minimum percentage of voters' votes, then this percentage is too large and these relations should actually be harmonised, I believe that the law should set the lower limit needed to ensure that decisions taken by the referendum are valid and that this is not then resolved in this way, it means that the minority may happen to resolve several percentages of voters or decide to resolve a decision on the resolution of the leader. All in all, I belong to all those who agree that this bill is withdrawn from the process of completion, meaning that it is some kind of previous reading because I am afraid that this proposed law, as it is now in this form, will actually introduce additional confusion and additional instability of the functioning of the units of local administration, and we are rightly in favour of the need all the time and we are aware of the need to strengthen the functioning and stabilisation of the functioning of the units of local administration and self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73052	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative, Nenad Stazic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, clubs and many MPs have advocated that this is not the first reading but the previous debate on this legislative proposal. I don't think that's enough. This bill should actually withdraw and write a new one. Why? This is where one important change is brought. So you will no longer be elected by the indirect mayor, the mayor of the municipality and the mayor, they will be elected directly and that is one important change. Important change, with this important change, should regulate the relationship between such a directly elected council and I do not think that this important change can be done by this kind of repair of the law that actually treats which is actually written for a different system. A completely different system. It is not possible to introduce a new system by correcting a law that speaks of the old system, but rather by sitting down and writing a new law, and I don't really understand why it's not working. Well, you have time. When's the election? 2009! Why do you do it in this crazed way, so we have one absurd situation, now in this law we have a part of the law that applies and applies, the part that applies but doesn't apply until 2009, the part that doesn't apply, it's all in the same law. It's such a papazian, completely unnecessary. The ambition was to resolve the relationship between the elected representative and the Council directly. And did it work in that ambition? Well, it is, but only in a certain way and only in one part. He's settled, is it settled that the Council can replace the mayor with a referendum? That's all. And all other relations that will appear, which already exist between the Council and the indirectly elected mayor, and which will, in particular, occur between the directly elected mayor and the Council are not resolved. For example, what if the Council obstructs? It could happen. The Council has one political option, from one political option, the elected mayor from another and the Council complicates his work. They won't convene Council meetings, they won't. Because they won't respond, they won't have a quorum. And then what? And then what? And he has to confirm some of the mayor's decisions because he doesn't have that much authority. What does that poor mayor do? Nothing. That's not supposed to happen here. Then, watch the legislator as if he didn't know, as if he lived in another country, so he doesn't know what's going on in Croatia in the councils of local self-government. Well, look, there's no question at all solved who, whether he's breaking up, and I think we should disband him. A council where one majority, for example, was created by buying a mandate. Not respecting the will of the citizens shown in the elections, but creating an artificial majority of corruption. Here's the money for you or your party, and you give me most of it as a case in Karlovac, then you sign it. And as a minister. ... To be legal, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Except they didn't go to the notebook to verify it. Either in Split, or in... Or Sisak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're buying two councilmen. They're being bought, God, by people. There are always people who are for sale from every party. Now they buy them and they have one majority. When that happens, when that happens, the mayor would have to have the authority to disband such a council and produce new elections. And for him, and for him. Because they must control each other, the council and the elected mayor. They need to control each other. This will happen because if it has happened so far, and the government has not disbanded such a council that exists on the basis of corruption and the purchase of mandates, it has not shown any will despite its oath to fight corruption vigorously. So she arrested a doctor for 1300 kuna. Well done! Well done. But the government would believe more if they disbanded those councils where they are by corruption because it's political corruption, the worst form of corruption, the worst, created, created by an artificial majority past the will of citizens shown in the elections. What are the citizens doing in the election anyway? What are they doing in the election? They pick one thing and they rip something else and nobody else's. Instead of bringing criminal charges against those who signed trade contracts, who did trade and thus became mayors. Criminal charges are being filed, well, and against those doctors for 1300 kuna. But it won't solve the issue of corruption in this country. And as long as this issue is not introduced into this law to prevent political corruption, the worst form of corruption will not be trusted by any of the citizens of this country or by anyone outside the European Union as you do not believe that you are engaged in the fight against corruption in a serious way. And this law is, and this law is an opportunity to show that political will if you have those political wills. But I don't see that you do. I don't see you do. Because if you did, you wouldn't be offering this legal text. Therefore, my proposal to the government is that when you have announced this unfettered struggle with corruption, you should deal with political corruption in local self-government units, prevent future purchases of any councilors. sanction it by disbanding that council and the new elections, allow the directly elected mayor that if this happens to him in the council that he can disband that council too, so that everyone goes to the elections again. Let the mayor have some instruments of political struggle with the council that would obstruct his work and damage local self-government units. In fact, it prevented this unit of local self-government from working. But for all of that, you have to write a new, whole, reasonable, logical legal text. This is just one failed attempt to resolve the relationship between the council and the directly elected mayor. Endurance, if you insist on this solution, you will create unprecedented problems after 2009 because life takes place on a single rhythm that you did not foresee here. It will continue to happen to you, you will continue to be trafficked by councils, and you will not have any legal opportunity to prevent it. So if your goal is to prevent this, if your goal is to move from these promises to concrete deeds, then do as you are advised because you are advised in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73054	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73055	Mr. Vice President, I have to correct the incorrect story of the purchase of the Karlovic pensioners, which my colleague Stazic has mentioned 107 times already. First of all, the contracts, the pre-election contracts, the coalition contracts were always public with us, so that's exactly what they're talking about, and you know, otherwise they wouldn't know. But the less public they were, they were your purchases. Let's say the pre-election purchase of journalists, you put 20 of them in diplomacy for the prize. Now that's clear, you can't go public anymore, but there's a Madison who's gonna do this to you, maybe some medicine like Actavisa. Is it generic, excuse me? It's generic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73056	It's Mr. Agent Ante Markov's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73057	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia since 1993, when the establishment of local and regional, regional self-governments has been under discussion, dilemmas about how to find the best system of electoral legislation, how to find the best relationship between the representative body and those acting in public functions? And in what way to regulate there, this area of public action that is crucial for the functioning of one regional, regional self-government, but also for the functioning of a single society, a single state. Of course, the reform of electoral legislation has been a partial problem since the very beginning. So certain levels of electoral legislation were removed from the context, either as necessary or politically or according to the public's strong expectations, and they tried to resolve themselves individually. So we have different models of how electoral legislation in the Republic of Croatia works today. Whether we will put on one side when it comes to the election of the President of the Republic, on the other hand when it comes to local and regional (regional) self-government and on the third hand when it comes to parliamentary elections or the executive government at the state level. We have three different practically models that are, they don't understand each other. They don't communicate with each other. Of course, in the specific case of the proposal for a law on local and regional (regional) self-government, I think we are almost all on track that it is good for mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors to choose directly and that it is practically unanimous from the very beginning very clear and almost all clubs have advocated one such approach. Of course, problems arise at a content level. This declarative is almost common both in the neighborhood and in that neighbourhood that is closer to what is further to what is below us in terms of level and democracy and economic social relations. Either way, we can find some consensus here. However, it is a content level, of course it is always implicated by a political dimension, a time in which some debate takes place. So we are actually our citizens when we lead them to a clue that we have come to a common conclusion that it is good that they can directly choose something. Then after that, in three days we beat them up so much, and they don't know what we're going to choose anymore, or do we ever agree on a direct choice? I don't think such messages should happen, and I think this good idea should have been better and more content prepared. I think we should go on a kind of political survey, and on the second level with those who are already acting in units of local self-government and government with citizens, with associations trying to through a public debate simply filter out the best possible content of this new model of electoral legislation. Because this is how we appear to be all agreeable, and if the summary of this debate was tried very clearly and precisely, they would see that there are actually almost misunderstandings in each chapter, in each segment. I don't think that's good, it's not good for those citizens who expect to make a change there either. It's not good for us as a representative body either, that we don't have the strength to take it out. It is not good for the government to make almost most of the proposals for this to be a previous debate although we have experience that sometimes previous discussions have been very helpful. That they helped in terms of looking for the best way and the best solutions and respects, especially in this topic that we have tried to protect from political coups on either side, because after the last local elections, the very clear voice and messages of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were "don't do local elections by that model anymore because it's not all expensive for those who do so". Therefore, I think it is good to protect myself in making laws against these political coups, but that it is good and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia says "all right, this is a previous debate, we have until the next local elections", and we have time until the next local elections. Certain segments concerning this Law, above all a referendum that has caused the most controversy, the most dilemma, should, of course, be fully aligned not only with the referendum law but also with the real situation we have on the ground. You know what the consequences are when it comes to the destruction of some government. You know what it's like to go out on a team and stuff like that. You know that in the event that there is even a variant that the referendum replaces the elected mayor, the mayor or the mayor that is the situation of a particular division. Then very few people are in the mood for a referendum. Therefore, we need to prescribe those instruments that can be effective without causing system blockage. In order for the referendum not to be a catcher for all those who wish to act destructively. But I also agree, I absolutely think that the mayors, the mayors and those who perform that public function should protect and give them instruments that they will be able to do their job in the best possible way. But I'm less afraid for them, and more afraid for the citizens, for the representative body that it will actually be in a subordinate position. Much more subordinate than it's going to be mayor, mayor and mayor. And even so far, the practice has shown that misunderstandings were due to this part of the government segment, this executive government. And that the representative body, because of the circumstances and ways in which it is treated in our system of legislation, but also the roles it plays, often took on those blows that it does not deserve. I would dare say as this Parliament has often received on itself all those negative connotations stemming from the public work of political action, often not intended for this Parliament but perhaps more for the executive authority. But unfortunately, we're here, we're in that system, and that's how we work. It's the same with local self-government, you know? Local sheriffs don't live in councils, county councils, but they're in executive power. And everything when it comes to negative connotations is trying to establish itself as a dialogue. Everything is a problem how and how the representative body will react to the elected mayor who is elected directly. All right, he's chosen directly, but the people must also keep their representatives in a position to be a control mechanism, to be a body that will be able to control. So, with the best of intentions, I'd like to say that there's no reason for us to judge here today one way or another. I support the idea of this law. I think he needs to be fully in line with the needs of this society, with our way of living and how we act politically. We can't prescribe this law from any other country except the principle. Therefore, those who say go there and you'll see how they do it. They're doing it maybe differently, maybe worse, maybe better, but maybe there are other circumstances with them. Therefore, we must find our own way, our own institutions and instruments that we will act to keep this important law in the interest of those who will act as authorities and representative bodies but, above all, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who deserve simply not to be constantly frustrated, that after each election, after each assembly there are some disturbances. Of course, these disorders, you know, it's very difficult for anyone chosen by the people, it's very difficult for any member of the representative body to limit any level of legal capacity to do something that is not moral. It's very difficult. So it's simple. I don't know, it can happen in the most orderly system, in the most legitimate sense, it can happen. However, there must be some other sanctions that are not prescribed by a strict regulation that says well, we will now annul the municipal, city or county council, we will disband this, there must be some other sanctions that will be far more difficult, which will be far more unacceptable for both the political party and the individual to do an impious act that can thus be characterized. Therefore, I repeat, restrictions cannot resolve the issue of overall trust that needs to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73058	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Representative Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73059	Mr. Vice President! I agree with my colleague Markov in most of his exposure, and mostly because he's located two things that all MPs have pointed out regardless of which political option they belong here. These are signs of a consensus on the direct election of mayors, mayors and mayors and their deputies. And on the other hand, one finding that he's very well located, and that's when we go into the law, into legal provisions then de facto our discussion goes in that direction as if we're all, in fact one good part as if against such a law. Whether the law is missing or not, what you pointed out, Mr. Markov, I mean that's your position and okay, the law will surely experience certain changes, changes, and so hopefully we will come up with such a legal solution that we will all accept. But I'm glad there are other MPs besides HDZ who don't go to petty politics. I can also say that when it comes to the direct election of the mayor, the mayor that this is one of the Croatian Democratic Community's election promises, the pre-election promises of the Croatian Democratic Community, where in our 2003 campaign, it is clearly pointed out that the HDZ will pass a law in this term which will address the issue of the unequivocal election of mayors, mayors and mayors, or their deputies. Here, in this direction I believe that this discussion of yours is absolutely correct but some dilemmas, there is no time for some dilemmas to be discussed and talked about, but I hope that during this debate and the next debate will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73060	Mr. Ante Markov's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73061	Well, of course, always the biggest misunderstandings come from a different way from which we speak. Often for us today when it comes to local self-government but also when it comes to any social activity, let's say the tourist season in the absence of the most basic indicators, statistical information, we're getting into some topics for which we don't have enough information and unfortunately not since '90. We don't have a systematic analytical approach here to see what the local self-government's results really were since '93. here, which was the positive side, which was the negative side, as the citizens reacted in certain environments, whether the same relationship in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, whether the same relationship at all levels of government, whether the same relationship in large and small cities. So, we don't have enough analytical indicators, we don't have enough comparisons to compare the time behind us and to show what was evaluated as three, and we want to get to the score of five, but we're constantly spinning in a circle where, of course, misunderstandings are born not so much on the principle idea. I said in principle we're all for direct selection, but they're born for a very substantial reason because we haven't really all been able to consider it together because we don't have documents to make sure that something was right or something was wrong, and that's one of the key problems that we're always going to be about and that's giving birth to ourselves as perpetum mobile misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73062	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Well, here's a few words about this law. I'd say first of all that maybe we're going in one direction that's not good for me personally, and that's the direction in which we're changing our complete systems and without having any analysts, any knowledge that we can and will reflect in practice. I have already talked about the changes in not only this part of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government but also the electoral laws that exist in the world and in our vicinity that have different systems in different areas and in a way that has tried some things previously on, here's a way to see if it works. But we're always going with some general solutions that we're definitely definitely, and now I'd say we all discussed, we don't know what it's going to look like. And then we'll have a new problem. It has already been very clear here that the overall Law on Local and Regional Self-Government with our municipalities, with our counties, is something that has gone into, some say extremely well, ask in some places our citizens, are extremely pleased, in others they have a lot of problems. I think that we are re-leading in all of this, however, in the end only politically defined guidelines, rather than trying to objectively assess what this means globally for the Republic of Croatia and then depending on the individual law, which means for a particular municipality, for a particular city, for a particular county. And yesterday we also had a lot to discuss about a certain little change that by no coercion, no law will be able to define what must be defined elsewhere. We're talking about, at least yesterday there were a lot of words about it, some immoral actions could be stopped by law. I'm afraid it's not going to depend on it. It's going to depend on people first. First, whether there is demand and whether there are those who somehow respond to that demand? So long as we put our political life on the table, I'd say the wrong things, then so would all those who deal with this public business, unfortunately, we're sometimes thrown out by a crowd, and it's not exactly our social status that we'd all want to be. I'm afraid that by no law we won't be able to define any amendments to the articles, but we must try to redefine them as politicians, us as people, but at all levels. It's sad to hear or in some way hear that the attempt to change power is like this or that, he won't be stopped here again I call for yesterday's debate and yesterday's proposal, no signing with the public notary. It will be regulated in a way that if in any way it succeeds in changing a part of people, part of thinking but part of understanding that politics is still a struggle for the common good and how it is possible to involve a part of the people in that part as much as possible. I think there have been enough speeches already here about the specific articles but I will specifically refer to an article that definitely tells me that this is not thinking for some general good but more about the part that will be directed towards some political goals, according to some wishes, but also harmonized with the existing things, I suppose. It is about Article 22 where it is said that the municipal chief, his deputies, mayor, the mayor, performs their duties professionally as a rule, and in the second article it defines that they can do so without establishing a working relationship. If you're asking me about this part, I think we should make a clear division between these three functions. Therefore, the municipal chief could be defined, and given the original budget and see here, perhaps he should be volunteering in that part. Surely some of the budgets that we have in our municipalities are spent almost 50% of the original funds on paying whether the Commissioner or any other employees and we don't think it can work that way because I believe that the municipalities are imagined in a way that these people who are in that least part of local self-government make the best use of that money, how few there are. I'm not going to talk about all those things where I agree that decentralisation is an necessity. If more money had to be directed to local self-government, but in this part that they control and invest in some things unfortunately most of it is spent, I'd say for wages. When we come to that other level like mayors and mayors, I have to say that sometimes I admire people who have many functions, really how they perform them. I think it's really each of us has certain capacities but I'm honestly afraid that's not a good direction. I think that in these things should be very clear and that sometimes it's impossible to perform a few functions that when we see them require both a dozen hours and more hours a day, and that some people do it I would say in a way that I guess think is possible. So in this part of thinking about mayors, especially when it comes to being mayors of big cities with big budgets, I just don't know if Mr. Bandic could work at that city communal as director and volunteer as mayor if it's not otherwise defined or maybe sooner or less, someone else? I'm not going to mention specific examples now, but I don't think such cases would be good. And it's especially unthinkable for me that the mayor will be a volunteer. Mayor volunteer in some county I don't know what kind of business he'll be doing. I don't know what's more important than someone doing the mayor's office in a professional, responsible way. She takes care of a region, promotes it, to do so in a volunteer way. I don't know where it's going, what's it like, makes sense? And I think that there should be a resolution because I'm afraid honestly that in this way certain abuses can be made, that in a certain way we ourselves are trying to by law then and saying that this is not the kind of function in which someone should give himself or work in the right way. So I think here, with this particular observation, but also thinking that whenever a particular system is possible, when we put it in that part of the function, is it possible to think that, however, let it be said, we simply understand that. Well, we'll have a choice, there'll be a choice in one part. So here we go, direct elections in one municipality, in one city. Some of them are operating on a new system. We see it, we follow it in that part, and we see how it works. I think without that kind of analysis, without a little deeper stuff, we'll all be surprised together. If most people decide to pass a law like this that sometimes some things happen in the wrong way, and then no help or cosmetics will help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73064	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Pero Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73065	Dear Mr. Vice President, I agree with most of the presentations of the esteemed counterpart Pankretic, but I think that one trap and he swallowed the hook, and that's about this part professionally and paid. We've been told it means professionally. And that's a mistake. We had this example when it was called President of the City of Zagreb, so I asked. It says, it was written in the decision, saying, "The duty will be performed professionally." I'm saying I'm not asking you if she'll be paid, but I'm asking if she's going to do it honestly and honestly. So that's what's important here, too. It doesn't matter if the Chief gets paid or not. That doesn't mean he's a paid professional. He is a professional, and he can also be a volunteer who will be honest and honest and professional in these matters. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73066	Thank you. The answer is Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73067	... Dear counterpart Kovacevic, you know the first thing is that if someone goes to perform a duty at all, then they should do it professionally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's the thing is whether he's starting a working relationship or not. My firm view is that for certain things he must start a working relationship, and that must be all professionals and volunteers and those who have been paid, I think that in my own sense, I don't even define it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73068	Thank you very much. And as last in this part of the debate, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73069	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's hard to talk after fellow God Pankretić, but I will still try to make another contribution to this debate. In fact, first of all, my opinion is that even if this debate was sought today by almost all clubs, it cannot be seen as a previous debate, because even later in the debate it was seen that the only conclusion of this previous debate was that if we accepted it as a previous debate, the only conclusion of all these discussions was that this law does not solve the basic issues that should be settled by this law and then there really is no point in it being the conclusion of the previous debate. In fact, I must say that the debate has also led to the fact that this law is, among other things, one I would say, a bold contribution to a legislative practice in the Croats. This is the first time I would call it a fragmented law. So it can have such a colloquial name in theory, a fragmented law, and for the simple reason that one part of that law is now being applied, one part of that law is in force but not applicable, and one part of that law has yet to be voted on, and that is this part that we are already discussing today. If it is true, I did not prejudge that the only conclusion from this debate could be that this law does not address the basic issues that need to be regulated by this law, I will remind you from the very proposal of the law, so I will read what these are like under the Rules of Procedure and the basic questions proposed to be regulated by this law. These are: First, the introduction of the direct election of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, and the mayor of the City of Zagreb and their deputy. That's how familiar I am with a law already solved that doesn't apply, but we passed it. Secondly, the problem of actually introducing this new principle, i.e. the installation of one solution such as the direct selection of the municipal chief and the mayor, we have already debated a lot in this House. If I remember correctly, one day we spent on this debate and I still personally did not convince that it was good to do what we do, and this bill confirms, which is that from a solution to a single solution in this case we are referring to local self-government from one political system to a whole other political system. It always reminded me of that, as if we were installing wheels on a boat so that we could ride on the road. It is possible, though, why not, but you have to admit that it is not common and that most often does not give very good results. The second fundamental issue is to specify the relationship between the representative bodies and the executive authority's bearer, the proposer said. So precision of relationships. If anything is not resolved by this bill, then no precise relationship between the representative body and the executive body has been resolved, and I don't really think of this here to sort out the arguments because all the previous speakers have said so. The third point, which is a fundamental issue proposed to be regulated by this law, is to define the authority of the municipal mayor, mayor, or mayor. I wouldn't say anything about it either, but I don't think anything is defined by this bill, or more questions were asked through the debate than answers were given. The fourth question is the definition and arrangement of the procedure of recalling the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and his deputy. This definition and the arrangement of the procedure was reduced to one solution, the referendum. The fifth point is to edit the situation where the representative body of the unit of local, regional (regional) self-government does not make a budget, i.e. a decision on temporary financing. And here, in fact, this situation has been arranged in such a way that this regulation of the situation has caused more and caused more doubts and questions in this debate than has been answered and this has been confirmed by all my colleagues who have discussed it before. Furthermore, there is also a chapter in the proposal that says, the consequences of the adoption of this law are: First, to contribute to greater identification of citizens with local authority. The largest was in the one-party system, and they were absolutely identified. Second, a higher degree of security and continuity in the work of the executive body, and that was the largest in communism. It was all about the party, everything was safe and continuous. It was known in advance, the five-year-olds and everything. The third is the more legitimacy of the election of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, since their choice is achieved by direct choice by the citizens, and that is perhaps the only thing that is true, that this gives them more legitimacy than all that has been listed so far. However, about this legitimacy allow me a few words. I think this is the way of ensuring legitimacy we're going back to actually somewhere towards the beginnings of democracy towards so-called. direct democracy in ancient Greece, because there everyone directly elected representatives, so mayors or presidents or whatever you want. Although there was in that democracy question who had and who had no right to vote, because not everyone knew they had the right to vote. So that's where we advanced in the meantime, but that's where we're going back to those times. It's certainly the best form of democracy and without further ado, so direct, thus ensuring greater legitimacy and everything is... However, as far as I know in history, the last executive head who was elected in such a direct way in history before Western democracy systems developed in which, I say, this way is proposed and with the powers proposed here and with respect to the representative body, I think was Chief Kuanah Barker of Seminola, about the 50s of the last century, so, 1950. He had such powers and such a relationship with the representative body, but only within the reservation. So, here we are actually coming into one conflict, and this is an undefined relationship between parliamentary or parliamentaryism and the directly elected executive authority, in fact, this undefined relationship opposes us from one side of democracy, which is best with direct elections and on the other hand parliamentaryism, which actually includes the principles of representative, or better said representative bodies and parliaments in the political system. According to these solutions, everything is against parliamentaryism. Absolute all the solutions of the day The proposal for this Law is on the trail of the original democracy by direct elections and they are all turned against parliamentaryism, i.e. representative bodies. As far as I know, such a relationship against parliamentaryism brings us back a little closer to the 17th century when Charles II was the last time. abolished parliament in England. Since then, no one has worked to end Parliament and parliamentaryism, but relations between the king and Parliament have been far more precisely resolved than are here at this level, especially at lower levels. And let me get this straight. Regardless of the solutions in this Act and how it will be made and what our decision will be, whether we accept it as a previous debate or we will insist on making one whole law, or we will go after what counterpart Pankretic suggested we go to a model parallel to the re-elections, to examine, in fact, and in some ways explore the efficiency of the proposed installation of the wheels on board, to see if it will work. I don't think this Law can stop our people from developing democracy or in developing parliamentaryism no matter how hard they try. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73070	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Rožić. If I may add, even the emperor was shouting, not choosing. For example, Claudius was called from the Praetorian Guard, and no one chose him or named him. All right, well, here's a quick fix, so we'll figure it out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73071	It's a small correction. Well, dear colleague Rosic said that it's not easy for him to talk after me, so I'm correcting that incorrect assumption. It's easy for him to talk after me, but it's not easy for him to talk, he knows who I'm after.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73072	I understood Mr. Rozic that he gave a compliment with this Thank you very much. [[Intruder: It was a suspicious compliment, suspicious.]] We'll continue at 3:00. The first is Vice-President Mato Arlovic, followed by Kruno Markovovic. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73073	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and the debate on the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73074	... Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, I must say that it is a good thing that this bill is in the first reading because it opens up the possibility that some of the principles and fundamental issues that should be addressed more seriously, as well as the principles and fundamental questions that should be addressed otherwise by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, especially after the situation arises that we will have a directly elected mayor, deputy mayor, or mayor, or his deputy, mayor, mayor and his deputy. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] In this situation, however, it is quite clear that the issue of relations between the authorities or bodies of the executive authority and the representative body should be slightly different. In this proposal of the law, one vision of such solutions has been tried, but unfortunately I must say that in this segment, this proposal suffers a whole series of criticisms and also a proposal to possibly consider a different solution to the other, to the second reading. First, you know, it is quite difficult to talk about the relations between the directly elected mayor and the directly elected representative body when, in particular, space is reopened to interpolate between them the Government of the Republic of Croatia which will appoint the Commissioner to carry out the tasks of the municipal mayor, mayor or mayor, in the event that a decision is taken in a referendum on the resolution of the municipal chief or a lack of confidence. Because it's a breach of practically government into that part of business, and I think it's definitely time for local self-government to be given up on that duty. I think the law should prescribe that, at that time, without commissioners, that duty is carried out temporarily by the President of the Council. To do minimum jobs that could at all, minimum... Business that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It could also work that, of course, in such a situation, elections should be opened immediately for the new mayor, mayor, mayor and their deputy mayors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second thing that is important to resolve is that the question in Article 45 is open that the representative body will call, so it must call a referendum on the resolution of the municipal chief or mayor and mayor in cases of inability to perform the functions of the municipal mayor and mayor or mayor, and in fact ask the question how can it be determined that it is incompetent? Based on what? Then, when they violate and do not execute the decisions of the representative body, they shall, by their work, cause units of local or regional self-government significant material damage. And what about the severe violations of the law and the legality of the work? What is, for example, when they make cases with their work like we did in the case of the Požega-Slavon County, giving guarantees without cover or debt and so on and so on. I think that, in such a situation, it should still be considered until the second reading that it is exaggerating, to number cases where, by force of the law, not only a referendum on resolution is being called up, but when the term of office of mayors, mayors or mayors for serious violations of the laws that cause this as well as significant material damage to that unit of local or regional self-government, by force of law. Then, for example, when it comes to losing your ability to do business because it can happen and so on and so forth. Well, in such cases, new elections are being discussed without holding a referendum. Because we have to introduce actually one part of the legal mechanism. Third, it is totally unacceptable that at the same time solutions on the referendum are given here which do not comply with the law, the applicable Law on Referendum. And not to point out that in fact the new law, the leg of the specialis, the referendum law, will further regulate and elaborate the issue. Because then that would mean we had to make an amendment to that law. That law, according to the current and this solution, would remain in force, but the question of who is calling the referendum is opening there? And so on, in cases like this. Fourthly, the representative body will decide on holding a referendum if, for example, the proposal referred to in the preceding paragraph is supported by at least 33% of voters enrolled in the list of voters and so on, Article 47. The question arises why... One-third? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a huge number of voters. We in the Constitution have that from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the State, from their constitutional jurisdiction is possible and must be called out. So it will be discussed, cannot happen if conditions are obtained constitutionally, which is that 10% of the electoral bodies sign a petition or a request to hold a referendum and if they have signed and accepted and do not repeat it then the referendum must be held by decision... So this 1/3 is completely, completely unrealistic and I think that in a situation like this, it's certainly necessary to discuss that it has to be a far, far smaller percentage than 1/3. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fifthly, it is particularly interesting that at the same time the question will be raised and how will a decision be taken to call a referendum on the Council? Which one is it most of the time? And here we have 1/3 that we would have to sign the request that we can at all, the proposal that, previously, a proposal to hold a referendum. Now, the most interesting and profound thing for me is that if a referendum is decided to resolve that, in fact, until the election of a new mayor or mayor and deputy jobs, the Commissioner will do so instead. This is absolutely not working if we want to secure the constitutional position of our units of local self-government not to swear to their, their jurisdiction. Seven, Article 7 of the proposed amendments and the addition reads, "Article 40 is amended and it reads: The municipal chief, mayor and mayor are elected in the general direct elections according to a special law." Therefore, if we are already amending this Article 40, it should be indicated that both they and their deputies are being elected, as among other things in Article 40, Article 8 now states that the term of office ends both both the Commissioner and the Deputy Mayor and the Mayor. Therefore, there is obviously a failure and it needs to be done further and repaired. The specific debate or specific issue to be opened is related to Article 35 where it is prescribed that executive authorities will report their work twice a year and, of course, whenever requested by the Council, and then have to submit a report within 30 days. This should be linked to the discussion of the budget of the local self-government unit. The debate when the budget, when the budget rebalance is and when the report on the implementation of the six-month budget is, must certainly be a report on the work of the Executive Authority. But to point out that every two times a year they will report on their work, not to say in what period and for which jobs, it hangs in the air. The eighth, in Article 35a, it is clear that it is actually pure business matter related to council matters, answers to council questions, written, unwritten, etc. And in that segment it is quite clear that this provision does not belong there, possibly it may belong to a general provision that the council members may ask written and oral questions to the holders of the executive authority to which they must answer, which is particularly governed by the Rules of Procedure, etc., but here it says that they must answer it within 30 days, or the mayor, etc., that within the time limit set out in the preceding paragraph, the municipal chief is obliged to give an answer and to the oral question if the council has not received the answer at the sitting. How come? No, it's actually going to be a question that's not on the oral, the oral answer gets orally set, if it can't be given orally, it's going to be answered in writing within the same time limit as this. Therefore, if so, but it should be in the matter of the Rules of Procedure, it should not be in the matter of the law because this opens the debate to actually deal with issues that are not necessarily necessary in the nature of things in this law. Interesting solutions are related to Article 13 where they are said to decide among other things on the acquisition and alienation of movable property, the property of a unit of local or regional self-government whose individual value does not exceed 0.5% of the amount of the budget or no more than one million kuna. And now we have a solution that at the same time in the Law on Transfer of Power is actually not compatible with each other, and both of the laws are under discussion in the Parliament. Neither at the cost nor at the amount, and above all, there are exceptions that, in exceptions to the budget, if harm were to occur, etc., it can actually do so above that amount. Now the question is, you know, when he must still get the previous consent or the subsequent agreement of the council on this, since it is still the budget and the Council's policy. Time's running out, so I have to figure it out. For all these reasons, I believe that this should actually be turned into a previous debate, and only on the basis of the previous debate to prepare the next draft law which must be more comprehensive in terms of scope and content than this bill should be in order to go into further procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73075	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73076	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I think there's been so much of that said today, maybe just a few words. Listening to our MPs and MPs today about this law is really so much said that the law doesn't deserve it. The law tried to resolve, and to a good extent resolved the expected relations between counterpart Bosnjakovic said local parliaments and leaders. And yet I ask myself why Mr. Palaric and the team are working so hard, here's Mr. Lesar saying I can get the laws in Amsterdam, it was probably a sale last year because he made a whole package last year. The local self-government works solidly with us. The only thing that's emphasized is that individual excesses are a little too much, because normally where it's good, nobody cares. Find out in the papers, in the media that someone will tell you about the city or the municipality where everything is fine, and that's 98% safe. A new way of selecting the heads of the municipalities, cities and counties requires normal and new regulation of relations with the council or the assembly. And now where there's some kind of party, it works very well, where we don't see that the blackmails of coalition partners, we've had the opportunity to see it at higher levels not only in cities and municipalities. This relationship here is normally tried to resolve the referendum. And I think that's good. Why 33%? So that every minute someone doesn't think about it and get expensive especially in the smaller midpoints of 50, 100, 200 signatures that are about 10% and let's go to the referendum any minute. It's a good thing behind this unless the referendum goes away and the punishment goes away. So, the council is disbanding, which council is initiating it. Because the council will be very often, and we'll see it from one party, and the mayor, the mayor from, or mayor from another party. How many people will go to the election. We're talking most of it can be one man. So who is this of the initiators of the referendum without at least bringing their people to vote against the one against whom the referendum is directed? So, it would really be a shame to have a few people come out, given how interested people are in those who are going to run their city and municipality, I guess that's how much they're going to get out. Normally I say, there will be different colors of uniforms, and now there are the same thing between mayors and councils, there are some sparks here and there. The restriction on how much the mayor, mayor, mayor, I think he's quite well set up, I'm sorry there in some municipalities are little budgets and even with little he can dispose of, but it's bad said that it's actually a pity that half that money goes to employees' salaries. Well, they're not just employees there to raise money from some tax, that's all they do. Take a look at our ministries, look in Croatian waters, Elektroprivredija, HT, everywhere these leaders go around and try Croatian roads and elsewhere, trying to do as much as possible for their place, and to a good extent they did. So, I think I still support that these small municipalities stay and that's actually very good. We heard from Mr. Mrsic, he says it would be very convenient for the mayor to disband the council. As far as Mršić is concerned, I think he would be happy to disband the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, because he's talking about what he didn't get his approval, so we'll probably be in the future, because he can't speak here or here on behalf of the board, and the other day what we didn't conclude on the board, or his own party colors, express. What's a little bit left unscheduled and I think it would be good if you show mistrust to the mayor, the mayor, that the package goes to the deputies. Then the situation would be clean, so let's go in the package, let them pick their own package, and I think that's to make it much, much clearer. And again, it should be said that the first reading is and that all of what is said is probably going to come in handy, that there will be some misunderstandings here, perhaps interpretations, to avoid further interpretations but in any case this law promises, and it has already given very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73077	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73078	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a proposal for this legislative solution, which this time brings an important reform of the system of local and regional i.e. regional self-government. The proposed text of the law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which for the first time introduces a direct selection of mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors in the Republic of Croatia. We see that so far the models have actually led to that there was and there has been a series of things that have actually been exposed to public criticism and have not always been the will of voters in municipalities or in municipalities or cities expressed through real coalition authority, especially in the function of a person acting as mayor of the municipality, mayor or mayor. They've always agreed with political agreements on multiple sides, and I don't think this kind of cry that comes out that this isn't a good law, that it's confused, that it doesn't stand. Because reality speaks of a person who will be elected, not by direct elections, will certainly be chosen by will, by the majority will of citizens and by the unit of local self-government, that they will serve for sure to those citizens and otherwise not, and if they are to be significantly removed from what the programme has suggested, citizens also have the opportunity to request, with this percentage of their signatures and demands, the signing of the referendum and the replacement of that Commissioner. It also distinguishes what has divided the authorities between the direct perpetrators of the executive authority i.e. municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors and representative bodies,... the executive powers of the mayor, mayor or mayor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's what happens that precisely defined what through this law is specified what are the powers and achievements of that elected mayor, the mayor of the municipality or the mayor? Surely this man will work hard and hard because he has received support from citizens, must communicate with them, and the continuity of his work will also contribute to the fact that this unit of local or regional self-government certainly works on its right and healthy feet and that it is certainly fighting for the benefit of its citizens. The representative body, as we can see, will have twice the insight into its work and the report on its work and, where appropriate, when suspected of any significant deviation from the law or spending of budget funds or alienation of the property of municipalities or cities, it will surely have to justify what he did and the radio, and after that, if it was wrong and the representative body may request a referendum on his trust. So I think we have defined and explained a lot through these legal solutions. Surely what is to be said is that through these six points how the municipal chief, mayor or mayor is changed or replaced by the resignation, by a judicial verdict and all others that are listed in extreme and death, is clearly defined what this means. In order for its control to be greater, internal audit has recently been introduced in the county and they are preparing to take over their work as an advisory body and to control the spending of budgetary resources and to be supported by all acts as well as in the city administrations will also be an internal audit or an auditor who will work together with these mayors and with municipal councils, on the legality of spending funds and I think that the system and through such legal proposals will actually go in a good and right direction. That there will be no possible deviation from legal norms and prescribed powers. We also heard that although politics is a struggle for the common good, when the general good is lagging out or for a long time it does not happen in the local self-government unit in the city, or in the county it is necessary that the representative body reacts through these questions about the report, so it is also a duty for citizens to ask for these legal moments when they do not live well, when they are not well, when the mayor, mayor or municipal chief has not entitled to make an effort to work for the general good but to work for themselves, which has examples for themselves and in the current mandates, that individuals are using both political colors and also their party colleagues who unconditionally raise their hands because faithful foreigners have gone too far, nothing has happened in years, but nothing has mattered. This time you can... that it will not be possible, because citizens will react and the duty of the representative body is to call them a referendum and call them off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to say through these legal norms that today's attempts to stop, delay, adopt or debate about this law, or vote on it, and call for the confusion of this same law, while in all previous discussions, we see clearly who cares and who will miss trading in terms of mandates. It is clear that those who have shown the most criticism over the change in council's will to deceive voters. Today, when these possibilities are removed and prevented, it can simply be concluded as the old Croatian proverb says that really a couple is not barking over the village but because of themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73079	Thank you. Replicated representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73080	In fact, I'd just like to replicate my colleague Djakic and say that we haven't all called that law confusing, we haven't all generally rejected him for no reason. In the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we have very reasonedly presented a dozen elements that we consider to be important in order. So, we argued, we said what they were about, and we made a proposal for a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73081	Replicate reply, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73082	Dear colleague, I have listened carefully to all your suggestions, but I have not heard them in the past. You didn't try anything to try to put it in the legal frameworks at all after all the time it was used to market and trade and then move on to others. Today you find yourself very smart, very pedantic in determining all norms and not meeting what is here in these proposals of the law is written and clearly standing and all possibilities and resolutions are open. Therefore, I ask you not to replicate what is clearly unequivocally written that the future local regional self-government will function because these are certainly the right forms and we in our party are not afraid of them. We agree just as it is in our democratic world to make the mayor the person most citizens support, who trusts and who will certainly do what is necessary for him and that is to create better and better conditions for life, jobs and all that is missing in our units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73083	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his word. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73084	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The change in the electoral system and the change in the system of local self-government, of course, requires a serious, thorough debate and therefore did not surprise me that this bill has been debated for so long. There are, of course, MPs in the Assembly who, for any reason they do not want to say but who do not support the introduction of a direct selection model of executives and I understand that they do not support the adoption of a law that is a step further in implementing and changing the government model at local level. But the government is firmly on the stand to implement this promise, which is to introduce a direct selection of members, mayors, municipal mayors and mayors and that it will stop and end all the negative phenomena that occurred in the formation of executive authorities after the last local elections and remove possible suspicion of corruption, trading mandates and restore the credibility of policy towards citizens and trust of citizens in the holders of executive powers. Such a bill and the one that has not been voted before and which has passed two readings, so the direct choice is introduced by a new model of recognition, the citizens will get the mayor they vote for, which is voted on by the majority and by this law we guarantee him a firm position, stability so that most local self-government units will rule or serve the people that we like to say to the well-being of citizens living in that unit of local self-government. In today's debate, we heard criticism, of course, because it is clear that there are representatives who, by nature, think that they have to criticise everything that comes from the government. We've heard different solutions. We also heard contradictory solutions, solutions that want to completely eliminate any influence of the representative body on the mayor. On the other hand, therefore, and even provide the mayor with the opportunity to disband representative bodies and on the other hand, we have heard the possibility that, in the event that the proposed assumptions are fulfilled by law and the term of office ceases, the mayor of executive power is taken over by the president of the representative body, for a short time, but still for something that is not our commitment because we want to distinguish these powers. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, here you have seen that the government has withdrawn from the possibility of arbitration in local self-government, from the possibility that it participates in any way in a possible conflict. It leaves it to citizens to resolve a possible conflict between mayors, municipal chiefs, mayors and representative bodies and reserves itself the only technical right to appoint a commissioner who will carry out the necessary tasks until new elections are held. We did not impose this law, we did not want to impose it, but we discussed it or the bill, we also discussed the work text with experts from the Venice Commission, very serious people dealing with electoral legislation in the Member States of the Council of Europe. The law has also been discussed with the Union of Cities and municipalities, or the Association of Cities and municipalities, and we have received support for such proposed solutions. We were also assisted in the introduction of a new model by experts from the country where modern democracy was born from America, prominent experts in electoral legislation, and today tried on several occasions to impute the office as well asked for the opinion of the Department of Law. Yes, gentlemen, we don't have a monopoly in mind, in the event of doubt, we always think we have the right to seek the opinion of science and profession, and whenever we consider it necessary to check our views or in case of doubt, we will ask for an opinion because we don't think we know everything. But there were also attempts to accuse us of inconsistencies. For example, the Law on the Transfer of Powers and the Law on the Powers of Mayors is compared. No, they're not. But completely different... We have the mayor and the Council here, and in the event of a need for spending the funds, we can always make contact with the Council and the Council can make a decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the process of transfering the powers of the Council no longer exists. And the mayor is alone and that's why he has a slightly bigger maneuvering, maneuvering space than it is. It was an attempt to mock the provisions of law enforcement. The law comes into force the night the elections are over and a new model will be applied. And there's no confusion in how to apply the new model? It will apply because we have a provision that the general acts and parts of the general act which are contrary to the provisions of this law, so where the Statute states that the mayor chooses the assembly will not apply, but will directly apply this Law and I think that such a transitional period is well affected. But until the second reading, we're going to sum up what we heard, and we're going to try to make these questions even more precise. We've heard very good suggestions, I must say, very good suggestions. Every time we prepare the law for another reading, we carefully read the phonogram several times, extract what someone said? We are discussing what we have accepted or not and I believe that this debate has contributed to the final, as a final proposal of the law being prepared and better quality. We wanted to check in this House our concept, get support for the concept that possible conflict between the executive body at the level of local self-government and representative bodies will solve citizens according to the procedure as prescribed, as provided. Perhaps the greatest value in how we approach this reform is that we have not brought ourselves into "zeit note" in order to say that we must urgently pass laws overnight so that they must be prepared immediately, we already have enough time for quality preparation laws, a thorough debate, today here, another week at expert and scientific meetings and ultimately to reach agreement on the adoption of this law. For who opposes this Law, who, indirectly and opposes the direct choice of mayor, and thus the will of citizens to decide who will rule in the elections and who will be the holder of executive powers in local self-government? And thus, citizens' trust in politicians and at all in this functioning of the state government and local self-government. Here, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank everyone once again for participating in the debate and I suggest that this law be supported. We'll prepare him for a second reading, if you need a third reading. We're not running away from it either, but the first reading was a discussion about the concept and I suggest you support our concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73085	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73086	Mr. Secretary of State said there are parties that are not for direct selection of mayors and mayors using current times. I don't think that's absolutely true. All parties understood the ultimate advantage of such a model. Mr. Secretary was supposed to use the last time: there were parties. Because in the past term, only the HNS has twice proposed a choice, a direct election of mayors and mayors, and twice in this term. And some parties systematically refused. Second correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73087	Second correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73088	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations by the Secretary of State. The first thing he said, he says: "He who opposes this law also opposes direct elections." That's incorrect. We talked here today from the point of view what the law should look like to resolve all possible relationships and conflicts. So we're all about making a direct choice but not a relationship to edit it the way it's arranged in this Law. Another incorrect allegation refers to what Mr. Secretary of State said, he says: "This bill will prevent trade in terms of mandates, corruption, political trade and so forth." So there is not a single provision in the bill proposal where it is regulated so that your speech is far better than the content of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73089	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this bill. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. Let's go vote. The result? 74 for, 2 abstentions, 6 against, suggested conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73092	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament before you is the Law on Youth Councils in the first reading, which for the first time gives young people an organisational basis that will serve them as an instrument for a simpler solution to the problem of interest for young people through direct contact with local and regional authorities. This Law regulates the status, way of establishment, part-circuit, process of selecting members and other issues of importance for the work of the Youth Council. This Youth Council Act is the advisory bodies of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government which can be established with the aim of actively involving young people in the public life of local and regional self-government units. The decision to set up youth councils shall be taken by the representative body or municipal councils by the municipal councils of young people, the city councils may be established by the city councils of young people, and the county councils may be established by the county councils of young people. Young people within the meaning of this Act are persons residing in units of local self-government aged 15 to 29, and the youth councils make up the president, vice president and members of the natural council with the fact that the President of the Council can be a person from 18 to 29 years of age. Their term of office lasts two years. The number of council members depends on the number of residents of the municipality, the city, or the county. The selection of members of the council shall be carried out in a way that the representative body shall initiate the selection procedure of members of the board by public invitation and on the basis of written proposals and explanations by members of the representative body shall elect the youth councils as their unit of local self-government. In the context of their part-time work, the youth council discusses issues raised in the work of a representative body that are of interest to young people and proposes to make decisions, programmes and other acts relevant to improving the situation of young people and to give their opinions when making decisions, measures and programmes of particular importance for improving the position of young people in the field of units of local, or regional self-government. They propose to the representative body a debate on certain issues and how they are addressed. The units of local self-government and regional self-government are obliged in their budget to provide financial resources for the functioning of youth councils so that when it comes to the state budget, this law will not, in any way, burden the state budget because it is the obligation of the unit of local self-government, so that they provide funds for the functioning of the councils in their budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73093	Thank you. The committees? Family, youth and sport? The Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system? Legislative? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73094	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests at the gallery. I think it is not wrong to say that today young people are the weakest represented or politically weakest represented population in Croatian society. I wonder if you know that young voters are about 18% that the authorities are from local levels, so here to the Croatian Parliament are represented between 0 and 2%. According to some researchers who are dealing with young people, who have been researching exactly that information, they declare it such a big problem that they even consider the future to be a threat to representative democracy in Croatia at all. What I think is further discouragement is the fact also over several times found in scientific research, that young people, however dissatisfied they are, are deeply despised by politics and their own involvement in politics and their own participation in any decision-making process. When it went down to investigate the causes of this mistrust and that perception, the key reasons were right in the elderly. Older, i.e. I can say you, too, very difficult, political parties very hard to decide to give young people space, as well as by participating in decision-making processes as an important indicator of the social status of young people themselves shows that the social status of young people in Croatia is today in a particularly unfavourable position. So as long as the elders don't decide that they're willing to miss a part of the political space, or maybe more accurately say part of the political power to the younger ones, there won't be any major improvement. I am sorry that Mr. Secretary of State is not here in the opening statement of a number of European documents which refer to this topic, so I will only mention the European Charter of Youth Participation in the Life of the Municipality and the region which Croatia is a signator of the Congress of the Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, where this model of the youth councils and some other institutes that would allow the participation of young people in decision-making processes is, in fact, recommended by the Member States as well as Croatia. What I would like to say as a special emphasis on European documents, youth policy is a primary issue to be addressed locally, i.e. at regional level, and according to the European Commission's White Paper, the responsibility of the Member States is excluded, so there is no single policy in the European Union about young people, but on the other hand, it is expected that certain standards and criteria for policy towards young people are reached, and these are the criteria and standards that the European Commission itself has defined in one co-operation process primarily with... a forum which is a representative body of young people at European Union level. In 2001, the Republic of Croatia launched processes to create a national strategy for young people, to develop a legislative framework for youth participation instruments in decision-making processes at local levels and to create a roof national youth organisation. In 2002, the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported a national programme of action for young people, which should meet the priority needs of young people in Croatia. At the end of 2003, there was a major setback in the implementation of national policy, which was partly caused by new institutional solutions when the then State Institute for Family Protection, Motherhood and Youth was abolished and the new organisation in the country became involved in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity within the Department of the Family in the Department of Children and Youth has one Youth Department. So young people are concerned with only a few people at a fourth level of executive authority within that large ministry itself. However, it should be said that at the end of 2005, an operational plan for the implementation of the national programme has been adopted, and it is expected that there will be some more concrete implementation of the national programme. Why do I mention this national program? It is precisely because it, to its extent, number 75, found that it is necessary to adopt the Law on Youth Councils which would regulate the establishment of status and establishment of councils, is also a national programme that I repeat is unanimously supported here in the Croatian Parliament, found that councils should be responsible for representing the interests of young people and the needs of all groups of young people at the level of a particular community, coordination of youth activities and that youth councils should elect representatives who would participate in the work of municipal and city councils but, of course, without the right of formal decision. And now we finally have the law here today and we from the SDP finally say, since this law is true God in something different form has already been here in the Croatian Parliament, it seems to me in September or October 2003, so just before the elections, and because of the elections itself, he has never experienced his vote, not even a debate here in the Croatian Parliament, and then what happened is that he collected a drawer in, gathering dust in government drawers for three years. I must say right away at the beginning that the SDP club will be abstentioned in voting on this bill proposal in the first reading for the simple reason why the law is bad, the law needs to be significantly fixed, the idea as such is not bad, we need the council of young people but we really need to do Mr. Secretary of State a lot of things that this law corresponds to how in European documents it should be, as in our current strategic documents, regulated what should be the youth councils. Our key point of view is that we believe that the bill does not ensure the independence of the Council in taking a stand on the issue of part-round Council work, but the very provisions of the Proposal on how to choose, finance, the relations of the Council of Youth and the local presidency leave room for the manipulation of the Council by some local powers. We heard this morning that there was talk about local sheriffs and subordination, the existence and work of the Youth Council to meet some promotional and very often the political goals of these same local sheriffs. In the SDP, we believe that the Youth Council should not be makeup bodies, in order to show some kindness "here, we are good in our city, we listen and ask young people", but they should respect, I repeat, all European recommendations should be a real polygon for the co-operation and partnership relations of the Council and local authorities and one way to restore the confidence of young people in politics and their involvement in the decision-making processes which they themselves are concerned with. Let me now argue this principled attitude with the comments in some articles. In your presentation, Mr. Secretary of State, you pointed out in Article 2 of the Youth Council's objective, that this is an active inclusion in the public life of the local community. This must not be the objective of the Youth Council. The aim of the Youth Council is to involve young people in decision-making processes. Inclusion in the public life of a local community is much wider than the decision-making process itself. This Youth Council, as set out further in the Law, should primarily deal with this. It is necessary to establish in Article 3(2) that the President and the Vice-President of the Council may be between 15 and 29 years of age, not as proposed from 18 to 29 years. I can further explain that if necessary. The provisions of Article 3(5) should also be aligned with the National Programme and European Recommendations. In fact, youth county councils should be formed as a network of city and municipal councils of young people. And with another addition, I ask you to consider a proposal to enable the establishment of a Council in the city districts in Zagreb. Zagreb has 17 urban districts and we already have initiatives for the establishment of the Youth Council, it seems to me, in Gornja Dubrava and on Trešnjevci and... Article 6 needs to be fully reorganised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mode of influence on the work of the representative body, that is, indent 3, should be defined in the Law in order to achieve uniformity at the level of the entire Croatia, because it is a taste of the very establishment of the Council of Youth, rather than a decision on the establishment of a Council. The same applies to the way in which it is financed, because that is why the mode of influence and the financial means constitute the basis for the positioning of the Council of Youth as an independent and independent advisory body, and should therefore be defined in the Law, rather than in the decisions establishing the Council. On the other hand, which will be the forms of the cooperation of the Youth Council with youth associations and other young people, in paragraphs 4 and 5. It should be resolved not by a decision on the establishment, as already proposed by the Council Statute, because it will only be achieved to respect certain local specificities. Article 7 is defined according to us. We think it is only necessary to establish that the number of members of the Council should be odd and that the decision to set up a Council determines how many members or members of the Council will have a particular Council of Youth. Because we think that the criteria for the number of members and members of the Youth Council are determined in a way that binds themselves to the number of people wrong because in some smaller areas there are significantly more active young people with more associations or youth organisations and for young people in whom young people spend their free time than the number of inhabitants themselves. In paragraph 2 of Article 8, it is necessary to add that members of the Youth Council may also propose student associations and young political parties, and a proposal should be put out that members of the Youth Council may propose legal persons in the field of the unit of local self-government. Because I think if we let all the legal people propose members of the Youth Council, I don't really think that makes any sense. Article 3 of Article 8, therefore, the way the Council is elected is one of the key to the autonomy of the Council. For us in the SDP, it is totally unacceptable for members of the Youth Council to choose a representative body of the local self-government unit. The members of the Youth Council should choose among themselves young. There are a lot of models for this, from young people agreeing on who they will be, to making criteria for how many individual groups should be represented in the Council, until they can't agree to simply choose the cube. All these models were elaborated on, I think, 3 or 4 consultations held during 2002 and 2003 with over 100 youth associations. Well, then I would ask the promoter if I didn't now elaborate on digging up some of those dust drawers by the ministries and changing this for the independence of the Council seems crucial to me, and this is an unacceptable provision. As regards the part-round work of the Council, Article 10, it is necessary to clarify the provisions because there is a lot of repetition, and should be added in our opinion to the obligation to give an opinion of the Council of Youth on proposals from the Youth President. This not only strengthens the role of the Council but also works to restore the confidence of young people in political institutions. As far as this article is concerned, it is only an addendum. All NGOs and the rejuvenation of all political parties from HDZ to SDP and all between them agree that the possibility of a suspension veto should be added to some Council decisions, and then we ask that this proposal also be considered for young people themselves. It is also necessary to add a new article that would regulate the relationship of the Council of Youth and the representative body in such a way that the representative body is obliged to consider the proposals of the Youth Council and that the representative of the Council of Youth has the right to attend meetings of the Council but without the right to decide. Furthermore, the provisions of Articles 16 and 17, as regards the 17th, need to be harmonised, they are quite funny because they provide that the financial plan of the Youth Council must be adopted by 30 September, which must comply with the budget of the units of local self-government for the following year. And I think we all know very well that on September 30th, there are still no units to the local self-government budget for next year, so just to sort of reconcile it. The provisions of Article 17(2) of the Youth Council programme are also inadmissible for us in the SDP. I think only the Council of Youth should decide on the Youth Council's work programme and this is again one example of how it can be strengthened if the independence and independence of the Youth Council itself is to be strengthened. It is also necessary to develop the Council's relationship with non-Council organisations in Article 19. In Article 20, it is necessary to specify that units of local self-government must provide funds, funds for the cold drive of the Council and that the Council can be financed from other sources than local budgets, because there are now a lot of generous funds in Europe for these purposes, so I think that should be added. Of course, the only exception should be that youth councils cannot receive donations from political parties. I think we can leave everything else behind. In Article 21, instead of proposing that professional and administrative tasks for the purposes of the Council may be carried out by professional services, it should be stated that professional services must and should, i.e. carry out jobs, professional and administrative tasks for the Council of Youth. I hope that from these remarks, you could conclude by some articles that we in the SDP are in no way opposed to the establishment of the Youth Council, however. But we advocate an independent council of young people, independent of local political powers, so that the idea of the Youth Council as mandatory advisory bodies can also come to life in Croatian practice. Today in Croatia we have youth councils in many cities, some of them are founded like this, some of them are in the status of NGOs and it is really necessary to adopt a regulation that would even Croatia and bring it all together. And I repeat, in the end, the SDP club will vote abstentionally on this bill because until this bill is seriously modified in the sense that the youth councils are being strengthened, that they become independent, that we will not, we cannot support this proposal, but if until the second reading of this remark is applied, I think we will be able to support it in the second reading of the law itself. And finally, something that shows how serious or unserious this subject is. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has a Youth Council that is just about to advise, or to work on, things that young people do, are part of the work of the Government. This law, which is now proposing that such a thing should be established in every unit of local self-government, has not been approved by the government in the opinion of the Youth Council. Some things are not just declarative enough, but should be done every day and actively, and then I think both levels and political cultures and participations will be at a significantly different level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73095	Thank you. HDZ club, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73096	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, respected professors and students, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Youth Council Act in its first reading and will support it. The Constitution accurately defined in Article 162 that the state protects motherhood, children and youth and creates social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. The young are the future of a country and the state must improve the position of young people. The duty is all of us right here. In order to achieve the better position of young people in society, their education, education, cultural and social conditions of life, the government was still in 2003 as we heard the adoption of the National Programme for Youth Action, which contains 110 measures in eight areas. The overall policy towards young people is based on the guidelines set out in Declaration VI. Conferences of European ministers responsible for young people from 2002 based on an important guideline to ensure that young people are actively involved in making decisions concerning them, and to help them engage in the work of their local community. Through a series of actions, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity began to implement some of the measures outlined in the National Youth Action Programme so that the Youth Council was established, Ms Lugaric already mentioned, encouraged and strengthened the establishment of a series of youth associations, clubs in the local community. The same ministry organized 1. A youth conference in June 2005 at Beolasica called "Young People and Society in Transition", which singled out some of the measures that participants themselves chose as a priority. Some of them have already come to life this year. By changing the Sport Act, which gives priority to youth sports and the use of sports facilities where students and young people have priority. It is also satisfied with the demand for young people to open up and become available sports, school, college spaces to young people, associations that offer young people non-profit sports, cultural, information or technical programmes. One of the requirements of youth was enhanced youth information on employment opportunities and entrepreneurship. October 27th after this 1. The country-wide youth conferences also held 1. Regional conference in the city of Kutina, and at 1. The regional conference was attended by five counties titled "The Implementation of the National Programme for Youth at Local Level". The same conferences were held immediately in Split, Opatija and Varazdin. Young people are mostly, representatives of young people participated in the conference, but also representatives of local authorities. This is important, holding exactly such meetings because of the sensitisation of local authorities for youth problems, that they be directly involved in this resolution. I must point out that the ministry has supported the development of local youth programmes in 9 Croatian cities that have submitted these programmes to the competition in 2 counties as well. For the time being, these programmes are being conducted through NGOs that point to both the local community and the ministry. The proposed law will certainly help young people to organize and act, to have a body that will bear the design of the programme, but also act towards the local community. Here's why the Youth Council is fine. I will say, for example, the City Council of the Young Cities of Sisak, which was founded since 1998, here already well mentioned the European Charter on the participation of young people in the lives of cities and counties, so local communities. At the initiative of the local democracy embassy, the town of Sisak and all primary schools founded the city council of young people. According to the Regulation on the work of the City Council, young councilmen at several of their meetings, as well as joint sessions with the City Council, have brought and discussed certain proposals, specific initiatives. I must tell you that there was no such legal basis, so the Youth Council at that time numbered 31 young councilmen, as much as there were the city council of the city of Sisak, was elected in the second round of the young mayor, we called him that and they brought in their program. Among other things, I can tell you that one of their priority programs was to edit children's playgrounds in the town of Sisak and right on the initiative of the city council of the young city council of Sisak has already brought the next year's programme of children's playgrounds and started action, the action continues today. It has spread to not only the city center but also the suburban settlements. Here, these are some of the initiatives, and why it's good at the beginning, this very action of young people. However, there was no legal framework, and the Council of Youth stopped acting slowly. It's getting more and more rare to meet, and we didn't even pick another young mayor anymore. That's why I think this very proposed law will help young people organize and act, have a body that will carry the design of the programme and act towards the local community. Thus, examples from practice suggest that there is a need to support the adoption of laws. It is good to include in the work of the Council high school students who will thus be active and involved in the work of the local community and affect those decisions that relate to the life and work of young people at times when some decisions may be harmful to young people, such as the closure of some of the areas that young people are now using. Why high school kids, why this experience I've been telling you about for 15 years, is just that this younger population is still not doing well, although the young council members were from the 6th and 7th classes, and they were chosen by students of all primary schools from 4th to 8th grade. So, as many schools as there are. And since this is the first reading, we suggest that some changes in the law be considered, and that is, in Article 11 in which point 3 provides that the president of the youth council can call an extraordinary session, I think we should determine when and in what conditions, when, why? In Article 16 on the adoption of the Youth Council Programme, I propose to complement the obligation to develop a financial plan to monitor the implementation of the programme, not as in Article 17, which proposes that if the work programme of the youth councils for the implementation of the planned activities provides for the provision of financial resources, then the programme must contain a financial plan. There is no programme of work without monitoring and financial resources. I think it must be determined by law, whether to leave it to the local community whether it will allocate enough funds in the budget or not for these programmes, I don't think it would be good. We also propose that Article 18 is amended and that the Council of Youth undertakes to submit one year's work report, because they also adopt a work programme for one calendar year, so I don't know why the applicant has adopted and suggested that a half-yearly report be submitted. Here are some of the objections to the proposed text of the Youth Council law and we hope they will be accepted. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this bill in its first reading, and we believe that this is finally a step for young people to have a legal framework for their actions towards the local community. We also think he can be improved in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73097	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73098	Just one correction. A colleague, Roksandić, said, is a young future in Croatia. I would like us to stop saying that and realize that young people in Croatia today are both present and in that sense I am correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73099	What is the incorrect claim is the fact that young people are not the future of Croatia? ... Well, young people are the future of Croatia, so it's not, how do you... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sure the old ones aren't. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's the past, not the future. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We young people think we're the future. For the club of HSS, the respected representative of Zvonimir Sabati, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73100	Dear Mr. President, a representative of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Allow a few remarks on this Bill on Youth Councils and on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party. I might start this exhibit a little differently, quoting Article 62. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says: "...the state protects motherhood, children and youth and creates social, cultural, educational and material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life." In this regard, of course, it is the duty of the state to make permanent improvements in the position of young people in society, both social, cultural, educational, material and all others. In the introduction, I would refer a little bit to the position of young people in us and perhaps give some comparative information about what it looks like in the European Union, because it seems to me that this is also important because of the easier understanding of the subject. We should focus primarily on the serious problem, or the main problem of young people in us, which is primarily youth unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has one of the highest youth unemployment rates among European countries. In 2004, according to Eurostat data presented at the international labour conference, we were the second country in Europe at the unemployment rate of young people with a rate of not more than 33.4%. This year, the youth unemployment rate of the entire European Union was around 14%. It shows exactly how much we cough for Europe, as far as youth employment is concerned. The total unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia according to the State Statistics Institute for the month of March of this year is 18.1% and the youth unemployment rate is about 34%. That youth unemployment in the age structure of Croatia is a problem we have been facing for a long time also shows the fact that the largest number of unemployed is 20-29 years old. Youth unemployment trends have not changed significantly since 2001. Young people around the world today face the same or similar problem. Most young people work in a system of unfortunately gray economy. In most cases, young people work for a certain time, seasonal affairs, or occasionally through temporary employment agencies. Their working relationship is characterized by a large number of overtime, small wages, poor job protection, poor and insecure jobs, lack of social protection, without the possibility of professional training and career advancement or further education. Young women are exposed to discrimination in employment and employment. Thus, the rate of unemployed young women is 59.5 and men 40.6%. All these disadvantages take after themselves and other consequences. In fact, because of their poor material status, young people get married and start families. It is no surprise, therefore, that Croatia today is faced with the problems I face and the problem of demographic ageing of the population. Already today in Croatia, the consequences of increasing the number of old citizens in the total population are much felt. The peace systems for social security are generally difficult to endure today by a large number of pensioners or early retirement workers. Because of lack of social assistance, there is an increasing number of social cases that depend on social assistance. And what? Of course, they're making a huge pressure on the state budget. The high rate of youth unemployment causes, of course, society and high costs, but what is most important is the growing number of persons employed, growing and the number of taxpayers, etc., the state budget is becoming more full and all, of course, young people would benefit from that. The national programme of action for young people accepted in 2003 defines a thousand and 100 measures or targets related to specific youth problems but shows and shows that Croatia suffers from a quiet disease which, unfortunately, we think is called a dead letter on paper because from today, there is no systematic implementation of it. Now let me look back on certain articles of the law and say something about the law itself. This proposal sets out that the councils of young consultative bodies are representatives of local self-government bodies and that they can be established by them and in order to actively involve young people in public life. Therefore, the future law does not oblige the establishment of a youth council but depends on the units of local and regional self-government, whether or not they will be established, in Article 2. Evaluating the extremely significant inclusion of young people in social life, the optional establishment of a youth council in the opinion of the HSS can be this good idea which is... To turn into a law like I just said before into a dead letter on paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is because the establishment of a council will depend on the financial strength of the local self-government units and, in an indirect manner, discriminate against young people. In fact, in economically-developed richer units of local self-government, the youth council will be established, performing its role by promoting mainly the interests of young people, while young people in so-called "youth". The poorer municipalities and cities will not have their councils and will not be actively involved in social life in their area. There are young people, of course, in poorer communities. As the national programme is set out or proposed that young people cover a population of 15 to 19 years because of the long duration of education and difficult employment, it is also prescribed that young people are elected from 15 to nine years of age in the councils of young people. But here you should mention that in other regulations health and pension... a deadline as the upper limit for the exercise of certain rights, for example, of students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A certain age limit to twenty-seven years of life, so we don't seem to have any legitimate reason here to define the age limit for a young man for twenty-nine years. The lower limit of 15 years is justified because a working relationship can be established at 15 years of age. This applies to Article 3. The conclusion imposed on the basis of the proposed Youth Council Act on the basis of what I have just said may in any case be discrimination against young members of political parties, as proposed by the members of the youth council, since Article 8 does not provide for political parties. What points can we get out of that? Young people, do not engage in politics because you will not be able to participate in the work of the youth councils and thus express your views and opinions, it is of course in contrast to the fact that as legislators of the same article, youth associations and associations dealing with young people whose members may also be members of political parties. On the basis of the above, it is concluded that youth associations and youth associations should be prohibited from assuming members of political parties, otherwise we will have an untransparent political choice of members and presidents. The next question is to define the concept of youth associations. As at the 2nd National Youth Conference held on 3 July and 4 July this year, at the request of the Minister and Vice-President of Ms Kosor, it was unanimously concluded that the amendment and addition of the existing Law on Associations defines the concept of youth associations. In order to avoid inequality in the membership of the youth council, it is necessary to determine the number of members of the council according to the mandated proposings. Otherwise, it will happen that only members of the association where representatives of the political party who, of course, currently exercise power in a particular municipality can have a particular youth council membership and resolve the representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government. In addition, Article 8(2) lays down the authorising officers of members of the Youth Council and thus lists, inter alia, the legal person in the field of local or regional self-government. It may be better to identify which legal person the applicant thought of because if authorised applicants can be all legal persons in the area of local self-government there is no point in listing authorised applicants. Namely, the student association, a certain educational institution and student choirs have the property of a legal person. In our view, it may be a little bit of a discussion of Article 9 why members of the youth council are elected for two years and not four. And in conclusion, the Croatian Peasants' Party Club considers this law to be inadmissible in good works because there are no implementing rules, there is no state body designated to monitor the implementation of this law, there are no criminal provisions because there is no obligation. We think that the law of a declarative nature, unfortunately for us, is just enough to say that we have it and there is no obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union because it is not in the legislative alignment plan for 2006. The assessment of the situation did not reveal whether young people themselves were involved in the design of this legal project through their representatives and whether and to what extent their proposals were respected by the proposings. It would be good if the promoter had told us something about it in the opening, or that he would have said something about it. Today, in Croatia, we have good experience that representatives of interested civil society associations actively participated in the development of both the law and other regulations in the whole range of areas. Let's just think of Green Action, remember Animal Friends, remember the Consumer Protection Association. And to conclude, this proposal does not address the expected way in which young people are involved in social life, but also in public life and social life of the local community. In our opinion, it's only proposed declaratively. The law has a lot of inconclusive details or no implementing rules. Given that it is necessary, I would say a legislative framework to address one of the important or most important problems of youth as an idea we support. I don't think there's anyone who won't support the idea of passing a law on young people, but because of a whole series of these shortcomings that I was talking about at the beginning, in some way, the indetermination of the law we'd like to read in another reading all those remarks that have been made, to make the right law because we all want to and wait and that's why we won't be against or for but we'll be abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73101	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73102	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since colleague Lugarić and fellow Sabati have already talked enough in general about the position of young people in us, I will significantly shorten that part of my presentation and as a university professor, I will make one disgression. First I'll give the grades and the three grades and then I'll start asking questions. Three grades: an idea, very good. Proposed law, very modest by content, grade enough. It takes time to prepare the bill tragically and unjustly long. The grade's not enough. My suggestion is not to talk about the idea, we're wasting our time. That's where we all agree. That's where we all support the idea and we must clearly try to save at least some time. Question is, what do you do with grade two and grade three? Now, I'll just remind you because later in the debate you'll probably say nothing anyone tried. No one was trying anything. That's what we heard earlier in the previous law. The Croatian People's Party Club delivered two conclusions in the parliamentary procedure last July. First conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report on the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme to the Croatian Parliament within 60 days. And what happened? The government rejected that conclusion. We have proposed a second conclusion: the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit to the Croatian Parliament an operational plan within 60 days to implement the National Youth Action Programme. And what happened? And the second conclusion was also rejected. Finally, after three years of standing in someone's drawer, he finally saw the light of day. That's why the grade is absolutely insufficient. In terms of content, I will say that I may also have a slightly different view of some parts of the law than I will bring here, but as an MP from the eighth constituency I will present the views of young Istria, the Primorje-Goran County and I have consulted with young people from the city of Zagreb, so allow me, Mr. Secretary of State, this part will probably be the most interesting for you to make some concrete remarks about this content of the bill. Young people say he's unspeakable. That he practically doesn't commit anyone to anything and that it's a college model. I agree with that because it's dangerous not to say exactly who's carrying which tasks and within what means does he have to do something? If something is left for good in our country, then none of it will be the most common. This fact is also unacceptable and contrary to the spirit of the White Paper of the European Union and our National Youth Action Programme. Furthermore, young people say that the election of representatives in the Council offers countless opportunities for political manipulation. That's what my colleague Sabati was talking about. We agree with him. So it can happen that regardless of the intensity that all members of the Youth Council are, in fact, representatives of only one political option because the council can, in fact, be here about the composition politically manipulated. On the other hand, young people warn that the number of representatives in the Council does not offer the possibility of real representation of the different interests of young people. And that's where I agree with them. Furthermore, the Youth Council is not defined as a legal person but is also expected to have a programme and budget, and then it should, I guess, be made available and made available by means of appropriations, which is somewhat contradictory. The Council does not have to be a legal person, but then it cannot be imposed on legal persons and membership organisations. Other illogicalities that can be found in this Bill proposal are as follows: the President and the Deputy Council may theoretically be re-elected and act in full 12 years. We sit down we know that it was seen in time in "Comsollo". We shouldn't let that happen. Furthermore, members of the Council can propose schools and colleges as institutions, which is completely nonsense because this right is already given to student councils and student assemblies. Therefore, that duality should be avoided. The Council should further adopt a programme and budget until when? By September 30th of the current year for next year. In line with the budget of the local self-government units. And the Budget Law, and the Budget Act, requires local self-government units to bring the budget to when? Until December 31st. Then how did the promoter imagine that it would even be brought together? It is very difficult to comply if these deadlines will be respected. It is said that municipal, urban and county services can, not necessarily, provide administrative and technical assistance for the work of the Youth Council, here's the truth. What if they don't? Why didn't the Proposer introduce it here as a commitment? Half-yearly reports and sessions once every two months, so both in July and August is actually bureaucratizing imaginary councils. It would be more logical to prescribe annual reports and meetings as necessary, so, if necessary, and at least once every three months. If in those three months it takes four times to meet, we should enable them. They also wonder if the proposer may have thought of it as a good idea for the city’s eyes to report to the youth and the public sometimes on what the local self - administration unit is doing to solve youth problems. So there should be one mandatory actually head of local and county self-government to submit such reports to young people and their council. The proposal is being rebuked by possible advisory and work functions of the council because it imposes on the councils the role that the working bodies of the municipal and city councils, or the county councils, now play. It is not clear what the Proposer wants the council to be really advisory or working bodies. On the other hand, the Council is practically restricting the right to debate because questions are said, I quote: "of particular interest for the position of young people" and young people are wondering whether the behaviour of public administration officials, social policy of the municipality or the city, environmental protection is an issue of interest for young people. They say it is. And who will decide and who will actually say don't forgive, forgive me, it's very important to say and give them much more space than to be interested in young people. They are further placed, therefore, by the councils, under the obligation to inform young people. In what way? With what? If they do not get that mandatory logistics by a clear official of the administration of the city, municipal, county that is not mandatory. So before the second reading, certainly all the proposals that will be made here should be taken into account. Our club will refrain because the idea is good, but we believe that we absolutely cannot support this content and we want to force the promoter to change it significantly. I was very glad to hear from my colleagues from the HDZ Club with examples for Sisak, etc. These are just examples. We in the Primorje-Gorski County while I was the president of the county assembly we had a lot of labor to form that council at the county level. It, however, works very well in Međimurje County, Makarska, Pula and some other places. The proposer should therefore take into account the good and bad experience in the work of the current councils. It is necessary, and what is not done, to talk to people who are sitting in counsel for young people, and the government has therefore formed advice. The government should communicate with youth associations and get a clear answer from them, proposals for an initiative on everything that is proposed here. Great idea is good, but the content is too modest for now to get a passing grade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73103	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73104	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to start my debate convinced by the fact that we live in a country of division, that this division is among the citizens of our country. Unfortunately, there is not a shred of tolerance, but also a level of communication among citizens and also in Parliament, which is particularly worrying. I don't think we have a consensus today or a consensus on any of this, and it really comes to me that I'm laughing a little when I hear that next election campaign is going to win that party that's going to have the best program. Of course it won't be because it won't decide either the principles or the facts but will decide the power of political ideology, it's clear to everyone. As sorry as I am that there is no reconciliation between Croatian citizens, which our first president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, stood for. On the other hand, I am convinced that young people, up here, will fulfill this historic role and reconcile all Croatian citizens and all of our children. Today we must have the guts and courage to open two key issues, a modern Croatian society that will determine the future of the Croatian state, the lives of our citizens and our children. The proposal for a law on youth councils proposed by the government, i.e. the ministry, is an answer to the first question. This bill that I am giving full support to is nothing more than an invitation for young people to participate in local self-government units, but I would say that it should be added in another reading, both at all other levels of our country and in the legislative authority and in state institutions and elsewhere. I really don't have anything, so I really don't mind the principle of seniority in politics. I don't mind gender equality. I certainly have nothing against minorities. But I did that for young people, I don't have against politicians who are wise, who have experience, because brains and wisdom are never enough and should be. But I'm also in favour of young people not only being recognized for their biological maturity and social activity. I am for young people to be recognized both socially and politically and all other maturity so that they can behave perfectly. And I'm glad, I'm really glad that our party, the Croatian Democratic Community, with its definition of profiling a party with younger people, is actually sending a message that we are sending a message that we believe in our children, in our youth, in our students, in the highly educated young potential that justifiably wants to change society and that offers innovation, creativity and knowledge. Without my youth, there is no true democratisation in our society and there is no future for us and I am quite sure that young people want to get out of the shadow of their parents and want an initiative. And our country must support, do everything possible to give these young people a chance. And the young must find the strength to deal with all the problems ahead of our society. And the answer to the second question, but that answer should be asked of society, of family, of creditors, of teachers, of teachers, of teachers, of directors, of television, of everyone, and the questions would appear. So what exactly do we want, how, for what values, what values do we want to raise our children for? What qualities of life do we need in our society? Should we resist dishonesty, moral erosion, corruption, crime, lies, violence, and injustice? Should we fight depraved mentality and pagan mentality of hatred where the goal is to physically destroy man? Should we cultivate, develop in man the spirit of community, solidarity, altruism, and not the trivial, honest one. Is it necessary to cultivate love for the country since it was small, but that love does not grow into nationalism and euphoria? Should we cultivate and call for co-existence, cooperation, good neighbourly relations with people of different religions, with different nationalities, with different police options, with different property conditions? Is it possible to live next to each other? Should good relations be encouraged with the neighbouring country? Should we develop in children and youth a judgmental sense of true values, not for troubled values? Should school have an advantage in education or education? Should religious and church heritage be approved? Do parents have to be role models and friends of their children or masters of their children? Should children develop love for family, love for brothers, sisters, father and mother? Do children need to develop that they will be the initiators to keep the roof above their heads, to keep the family together? Ladies and gentlemen, the answers to these questions alone will determine the future of our country and the life of our citizens and our children, not some fictional program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73105	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73106	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Cervar. Respecting everything you've said and your good motives, I think that today when we talk about a law that should specifically involve young people in decision-making processes is just an example of when to deprive but just any kind of pathetic. To talk about the young, tomorrow, the future, we need, we need, I don't know, I'm already tired of it, and I belong to all these expensive young people. What I told my colleague, Roxandić, are young and present. They're still living today. So I think for some big declarations and, far worth as much as we need them, I think it's our duty to do anything else today when we're discussing a particular topic like this and actually doing a lot more than just the declarations. In answer to your first question, maybe just a question when you're already saying how important it is to have in politics, etc. In HDZ, which here is the largest party, which is here in the majority, there are 74 people who seem to be represented, how many younger representatives than 30? That's exactly what this law and these research that I mentioned when I spoke on behalf of the club. Because if we really want them to believe us, that we want the young to get involved, then we need to do it every day, not just talk about the declaration, as it is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73107	74? That's great. So we also have undercover deputies who have not yet declared themselves. Ten are covered, so to speak, discovered as soon as possible. Replication response, the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73108	Well, I have to say, I've said more than once that I'm ahead of you because I'm an athlete and a coach. And he's a good coach who predicts what the opponent is going to say, and I knew that you would tell me and I have a ready answer. And there is, you obviously don't respect one folk proverb that says, "a man whose head is in hair shouldn't be corrected by another." And I'm going to prove it to you, with a clip, here you see, here are the newspapers, it's "The Evening List" from 6.6.2006. And you did a field survey on your party. To assess, it was a demoscopy, and a demoscopy is your polling or questioning citizens. Otherwise, until the polls, sometimes I have some of my criticisms, but the fact that you said it in terms of 6.6, I'll read it, there's kids here to listen. "Unfortunately," he says, "the organisation on the ground of the Social Democratic Party has proved that our membership prefers older individuals". So, you said further, your statement: "The organization on the ground unfortunately prefers the elderly and does not trust the young." And now you're selling me demagogue here saying it's different. Well, then, you have to report to the "evening List" or undo what you said to 6.6. And I'm saying, since I knew you'd say it, I knew you'd say it, I had to serve it for you. But be, look, here you go, see how nice it's all set up. And so your replica was inappropriate and demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73109	Second replica, Honored Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73110	Col. Cervar said he had no doubt that young people would fulfill their historical role. I agree with you, colleague Cervar, but on two terms. Let's first give them a chance to fill out their historical role and under two, to provide them with a regulated rule of law. I would ask you, we must keep in mind what my colleague Lugaric said, young people are not only the future but the present of this country, and we are sitting her present and her past. But we're the most responsible for her future because we're sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73111	Thank you. At 16,44, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Replication response, the esteemed representative of Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73112	And listen, Professor, what can I tell you? I taught at school, too. And I wouldn't exactly do what you just said, except I wouldn't learn anything. I wanted to point out to you if you understand, I think you're a lot on one intellectual level that you should understand, that the heritage of human and Christian values must remain the most precious treasure of our homeland and our children, and obviously you haven't learned that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73113	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Vice President Mato Arlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73114	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to see the draft law on youth councils finally appear at the Croatian Parliament. However, the way he regulates this issue of youth councils, their position, the way of establishment, choice, etc. I am convinced that they will not give and affirm the position of young people in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the field of units of local self-government, but will also create points of possible conflict and conflict between the representative body of the unit of local self-government and young people themselves and within young people. First of all, colleagues, we need to discuss the serious question whether we are opening the room for young people to have the right to choose and be elected to the youth council or whether young people are chosen from the youth structure alone, who will be representatives of the youth council without the vote of young people. It's something I'm seriously interested in, even in the form of some sort of quasi-delegat system. What's this about? Here it is foreseen, as you can see in the law, that the youth council is first founded or more precisely not to establish but can establish units of local self-government or regional self-government, so the question is actually what is the condition of this establishment. It is really conditioned by the means available to this unit of local self-government because it needs to allocate resources from its budget to finance work and implement the Youth Council programme. We are aware and we know that more than 1/3 units of local self-government do not have budgets that can and must provide funding for mandatory legal activities that have units of local self-government. Whether such units of local self-government will now expand the activities that need to be financed, and for which they do not have to... They don't have to start. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, of course not. In such a situation, the first factor of youth discrimination will be created so that richer and richer cities, municipalities and our districts will set up councils of young people and at the same time poorer municipalities, and in general it will not be possible to establish such municipalities, not because they do not, but because they do not have the means and in such a situation we will lead to discrimination of young people without their will. Secondly, it is proposed that where elected in the councils of young representative bodies of the local self-government unit from 15 to 29 years of age, with the fact that they can be highlighted as here in the law, legal persons or associations include legal persons in the unit of local self-government, so the question arises whether, for example, young people may ask to point out their representatives who will be elected by the representative body of the local self-government unit in private companies. They've got this law. Is that possible? It's pretty hard. Is that a return to the concept of a former Youth Organization? Well, it is. Obviously, therefore, this situation has not been seen to the end, and especially if it is taken into account that it would be associations dealing with young people, youth associations, educational institutions, student councils, student councils and legal persons all in the field of local self-government. It will be very difficult to choose from all of this the very representative body of the youth council. And besides that, the elected council is not the council chosen by the young, but the elected council which... The representative council and the question is whether the representative council will be able, the representative body of the unit of local self-government, to free itself of the possibility of actually being in that part and biased, given that it has been chosen by political criteria in view of political party membership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that comes another problem. That such a chosen council of young people chooses from its ranks as president and vice president, now you president or vice president... It shall not be less than 18 years old, and now it shall be asked how it may be a member of the Council at 15 years of age, and shall not be elected president or deputy if it is under 18 years of age. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are they equal or not? Well they're not equal, in such a situation it's quite clear in fact that it's trying to pull the line of demarcation and differentiation between so-called. The active and passive electoral body, the law, which is certainly not good, ultimately ask the question whether, say, a worker who took a job with 15 and 16 years of age can be exceptionally elected to a representative, say, a working council. You got it. There's no reason he's not 18 years old. And if we allow him to be elected to that council, why can't he also chair that council, etc. It is particularly interesting, in particular, that the representative body can now resolve a member of the youth council, for example, if it does not attend the meetings of the youth council unjustly, if it does not turn out, if it is 30 years old, on a personal request, etc., because it chooses it. So I actually think that these are issues that should really be left to young people if we want to strengthen the responsibility of young people, on the one hand, to give them the right to deal with their own questions through their own questions that they have an advisory influence on the representative body and, of course, have the opportunity and the duty to handle these issues. Of course, it is especially good and the interesting question among other things is said this way – the youth council is represented and represented by the president of the youth council. Obviously, he doesn't really understand the institute of representation and representation. The president certainly represents and represents, but each member of the council is represented at the same time by the Council. Therefore, we can here, we should decide when he represents, when he represents, every member of the council represents among other work in the Council and... The advisory body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we need to make these things clear and clear, and the biggest problem for me is financial resources and young people's programme. First, it is not clear to me at all how it is possible to accept the concept that the Youth Council's work programme would be carried out by a representative body, while at the same time it would be binding on the Youth Council to report to the representative body on its work, i.e. on the achievement of the work programme approved by the representative body. The representative body can, of course, receive a proposal for a programme of youth councils, but will bring forward that programme which will discuss and bring a position, give amendments, etc. It can be a fully accepted programme of the youth council but it doesn't have to be. Therefore, it is clear that this question must be resolved. Second. It is totally unacceptable that it is brought by September 30th of the current year at the latest. Why? Because the Youth Council programme must, among other things, be in line with the units of local self-government selected to finance the Youth Council Work Programme. So how come the program, or the budget for that next year, isn't there yet? They just can't agree to that. And in such a situation, it is quite clear, in fact, that this issue must be further specified and resolved in accordance with the Council's programme. And the last consequence that comes from that in itself you know. If there is not enough resources to approve for a particular year units of local self-government then the Youth Council Programme can be ideal but it cannot actually be realised because there is no funds. And now a special question at the beginning. The act on the establishment of a youth council is also referred to as the way of funding will be decided by local self-government units. Now, that's not a matter of local self-government. We must provide in the law that the local self-government unit can and must allocate funds from the budget for the work of youth councils but other sources of funding for the work of youth councils should be allowed, if possible, provided that there is no conflict of interest and inconsistencies of function, etc. As a result, these funds for the work of the youth councils in Article 20 in relation to Articles 17 and 16 simply do not comply. They are contradictory in themselves and among themselves. Therefore, in such a situation, it is quite clear that such a bill, that it is in fact best to conduct a debate in the first reading and to definitely define ourselves on the principles, whether we want the youth councils to express the will of young people in the field of local self-government units who have the right to choose their representatives from 15-29 years of age, that these young people so formed a council of young people when they are elected by their president, their deputy, that they, in relation to the council, have an advisory function and secondly, that the municipal councils can establish if they have opportunities and city councils can set up councils by a young act. But where municipal councils do not establish then the state must allow the establishment of youth councils in these municipalities and to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia if units of local self-government cannot do so. Because watch out, the question of training young people for democracy and democratic standards, the question of training young people to manage social affairs is a general useful social matter, it is not only a question of young people's education for these jobs for their individual advancement but also a general useful social matter that should be taken into account and therefore I propose that we turn this debate on this bill into a first reading and that, after the debate is conducted, pardon not to the first reading but to the previous debate and that after the debate in the previous part of the first reading, we prepare a new draft law that would ultimately, in line with the standards of the Council of Europe, prepare a new draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73115	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73116	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will say that I will support this Bill on Youth Councils, therefore, in my first reading for the reason that I believe that the implementation of this law will certainly contribute to improving the position of young people as well as to greater involvement and participation of young people in the social life of local communities, therefore, municipalities, cities and counties. I will not talk about European documents that regulate this issue, nor about national documents, but I will refer specifically to certain articles of this bill and try to make a contribution to the quality of certain provisions which I therefore consider to be, that there will be better solutions than what is offered in the bill. First of all, I will refer to Article 5, which was already discussed in previous discussions. I believe that Article 5 must say that the municipal and city councils and the County Assembly must establish a city or municipal council of young people, that they are not left with the possibility to make such a decision and not to make such a decision. Also, regarding Article 8, which speaks of the selection of members of the youth council, I agree with the predecessors that it is a little clumsyly defined who can propose the composition or selection of members of the youth council, in which candidateing can be carried out. It is awkward for them to be legal persons and I think it is also necessary to enable the underage of political parties, as was also said, to be able to run for members of the youth council and I would also advocate because why not also enable a young man to run personally for a member of the youth council unless he is a member of a particular association or other group. This concerns the provision of Article 9(2) concerning the resolution of members of the youth council, I do not think this provision that the presidential body of the units of local self-government will resolve a member of the youth council if he is 30 years old is somehow the most appropriate solution. In fact, it sounds like we're punishing this young man for turning 30 years old, so we're gonna get him out of the youth council right away. I think it should be possible for him to stay until the team's term is over before the mandate is very short, he is proposed to be 2 years. Therefore, it should not be a problem for that member of the youth council to be up to the age of 30 and a few years, it will certainly cease 31 years ago. As for Article 11, which states that the President of the Council may also convene an extraordinary session. I think it is an unnecessary provision because I think it must be possible for the president to call on the meeting at all times and possibly if he does not call a session within a specified time period, it would have to be possible for members of that council, it could be 1/3 of the council members that they could request a call from the president of the session who must then call a session but if he did not do so that they as 1/3 of the council could do so at any time, if the president would not want to do so. As regards the provisions of Articles 16 and 17, there have also been previous discussions on the subject. I think it should be more precise there, too, I think the work programme must contain a financial plan. I agree that the work programme must be carried out by the youth council but also by the representative body must have the opportunity precisely because of this financial part to grant some consent or approve this programme because of these finances and the planning of certain resources in the budget of the unit of local self-government. And finally, I would refer to Article 21, which was also spoken about. I think it must be determined that professional and administrative services are carried out by the representative body of the unit of local self-government for the needs of the youth councils, so that this possibility of being able to do so is deleted. It must therefore be determined that they must carry out these professional tasks for the youth council. Now, these are some of my thoughts regarding this Bill on Youth Councils. And I repeat, until the second reading, we have time and quality to settle certain issues that want to be regulated by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73117	Thank you. Honorable representative Antun Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73118	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Already, the very fact that the countries of Europe have recognised a special place and the role of young people and that by making the 1992 charter, in some way, I have been given the incentive to show concern and to adopt and legislation regarding the participation of young people in political life and decision-making, but from the lowest local through regional levels, I support the adoption of the Youth Council Act, and in my brief debate, I will not use some demagogue phrases, or to be lighter on the demagogue declarations of how our young people are aware of the reality of life in the time in which we live. So, I'll stay away from those and those grades. But because of the very fact that polls have shown that two-thirds of young people express the view that they are not satisfied with the political and all-life participation of the Republic of Croatia, it is an automatic response that two-thirds of young people want to be factors of decision-making in political and all-life Croatia starting from the lowest levels. I would not have come forward for a debate on this subject, however, in the district of Istria in five of the ten cities, the youth councils were established and the ZUM Association was active in promoting employment and professional training of young people and activists of the association held talks on the subject of the Youth Council Act, and last night a roundtable was held in Poreč, which was the subject of a debate on this Bill on Youth Councils and asked me to present certain concrete proposals in this debate on the text of the law that was set before us today in the first reading. counterpart Marija Lugarić, speaking on behalf of SDP Club and counterpart Ljubo Doric, said on behalf of the HNS Club, most of these views were recognised and expressed in some ways, and Mr. Vice-President Mato Arlović touched on the key issue that arose precisely in all of these debates that were led in the area of Istria on this bill, which is whether we want a well-octrossed council of young people or an election council of young people. And that's the key question. And without further ado, I will try to skip some concrete remarks that have already been made and read the comments on certain concrete articles of the law provided by the ZUM Association activists to encourage the employment and professional training of young people, of course with which I agree and absolutely support them. On Article 7, this is already about and said at these consultations and round tables, the position taken is that the number of inhabitants in one municipality, city or county should not affect the number of councilors but should decide on the number of councilors of those institutions because the number of council members in the youth council should not be conditioned by the number of inhabitants of one municipality, city or county for the reasons that each environment is specific and specific and is proposed to amend the proposal referred to in Article 7 in a way that does not specify the number of members of the youth council depending on the number of inhabitants of each unit of local self-government. In Article 8(2), it is proposed to supplement it by adding that the right to candidacy is also given to individuals who wish to run if none of those institutions propose them. It is also necessary to add that each candidate has to attend high school unless he has already graduated and it is explained that the right to apply is given to individuals because those institutions would only decide to run for most excellent students and, in such a way, they would deny the possibility of those who may be more willing not to say and able to act in the youth councils and who would, if they themselves, apply more seriously and with greater responsibility, accept such responsibility for the work and burden of work in the youth councils. And what I said in that same article, Article 8(3), which I think is also the most important thing. Article 8(3) should be fully amended and the proposal is for young council members to be elected by young people aged 15 to 20 through an election which explains that this article needs to be fully amended because, under such a law, those in power would decide who would be a councilman of young people and that would mean that certain authorities would be able to influence them by selecting those candidates who fit them more, which would in any case violate the principle of democracy. The City Council of the Young Town of Vodnjan is such an opinion, and this attitude is also taken on the round table last night to make it fair for young people to choose their representatives in the youth council who are very responsible for the body of young people in a municipality, city or county. In some ways, it is suggested to amend this proposal referred to in Article 8, paragraph 3, because in this way they have the view of young people, and I share that view to the fact that it is a well-octrossed council of young people, which is not acceptable in democratic practice. I hope I don't want to talk about these other members who've made me a concrete proposal that's already been made. I hope that from the debates held here in this Assembly either through the representatives of the clubs or from an individual debate that the motioner from will install in the draft law for a second reading and that it will thus allow me to vote in a second reading for this bill that I personally support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73119	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73120	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I must admit that in Varazdin, too, there was a round table organized by the Forum of Youth SDP, where the representatives and youth of political parties and the Faculty of Informatics, Independent Youth Associations, as well as the youth network of Croatia. Their fundamental observation on the proposal of this law is that because they were also involved, the youth network was involved in creating or at least in creating the draft of this law and their position is to agree on such bodies and later when the ministry and the government come with the bill suddenly draws up something completely different. The problem is that young people are asked to develop a partnership rather than just advisory bodies because young people want to be real politicians. They want to really participate in politics. What does it mean to advise someone? The advice can be taken, but most often it doesn't have to be accepted. Besides, when we go to look at the name of the law itself, it's inappropriate because it should, this would rather be some kind of law on some committees, committees, advisory committees than it would be about councils of young people. If we look at or go to the article by article, then there must be a lot of objections. They've already been brought out quite a bit in this previous debate. No matter what I repeat myself, however, what I will repeat what my previous colleagues have already said to me it seems to me that the first thing is yes, I would ask an explanation from the State Secretary in what way he tries, how the pyramid of responsibility will be established in Croatia for, in some way, the participation of young people in political life. Whether or not there will be some kind of roof association that will define and direct, sum up all of those views or all of those proposals that young people from locals through regional representative bodies direct towards, if necessary, the Croatian Assembly. That's not what you're talking about here. It looks to me like we pulled a segment or a piece of that pyramid here. Everything else just doesn't know. It seems to me that the Proposer has a desire to come before this House of High with some kind of law, and yet he does not know and has no complete solution for the representative bodies of young people. What we are particularly interested in and meaning, I think it should be mandatory to set up a council of young people. If we go to the very text of the law. If we have that somewhere, it means you don't have to set up a Youth Council. I can understand that in some small municipality, such municipalities in Croatia have 1,000 or 1500 and even fewer voters, or even residents, that it is difficult to establish a Youth Council there. A relatively small number of young people. But the fact is that why don't a few municipalities that make up some kind of finger and some kind of, maybe even a natural whole why they can't together form one youth council on one side, and on the other side, I don't think there's a single reason why larger municipalities, cities and counties don't have an imperative establishment of youth councils or youth councils. The second thing is the number of members of the youth council. If we are already talking about local and regional self-government, then it seems to me that in the debates every municipality or city has been told about it, and the county also varies with the number of inhabitants. Therefore, why not give the possibility for municipalities, cities and counties to set their statutes for their territory what will be the number of members of the youth council? I will only give an example that the city of Varazdin already has a Council of Youth with 28 members. We can discuss whether this is the Council of Youth for the sake of success or failure, good or less good, but while putting on which all associations should have and should choose, choose or propose to the representative bodies of the Youth Council we will have and have in certain cities a large number of associations in which young people are, I would ask the question in which way they will then be chosen and, which will be the criteria and ultimately on which the representative body will make the choice. It has already been said here that it will certainly be a political criterion. One who has most of the representative body will likely push themselves to similar members. I think that the way we choose, or the way we propose, there are two models in Europe or the world, so why don't we get a picture of ourselves? Is this a direct choice of young people in the youth council which would seem to me to be the most real and the best? But let's leave it to the local and regional self-government units. Each one for himself in the context of some speciality to make such a choice. So we try to impose too much volunteerism on one side and then ignore that we can also ignore the true will of young people who would like to choose and be chosen. What I think is relatively affected are, it's part of the work of the Youth Council. But what particularly bothers me, I have to admit, as do young people, it's a way of financing. First, I can't understand that for the implementation of this law in the state budget there's no money to be provided. We are constantly talking about decentralisation if we go in a way that local self-government as well as regionals gets more and more powers in this High House, under quotes. Most often, these powers are defined in a way that has more and more financial obligations. Under this law and too, it would be normal for the state to give some money through the state budget to lower local and regional budgets and for the work of the Youth Council, i.e. to improve the lives and work of young people in this country. So it's paradoxical that no financial resources are provided for the implementation of this law. I, as well as the dilemma, set up whether to condition, of course, on condition that some of the state's resources are given, means to carry out further financial decentralisation, whether it is necessary to oblige municipalities, cities and counties to provide a certain amount or a certain percentage of their budget for the work of youth councils. Because, as we say here, I can, and they don't have to start a council of young people, so they can and they don't have to finance. The question is if and ultimately if we trust young people as we should, as we all advocate, let us make sure that certain financial cookies are provided in the budgets so let those councils of young people if we already call them, regardless of what the advisory bodies are, I give as an idea, let them conduct their own competitions and decide for themselves what it is of interest to their lives and to improve lives and work on the basis of certain, means that they define and choose which are the most qualitative programmes. It's also agreed. I know that now all the levers of power are in the heads, today and tomorrow it will be with the mayor, the mayor or the mayor, and here we come again ladies and gentlemen to the paradoxal situation. We come with a law that will probably have to be changed very soon after 2009 is a direct choice of local and regional leaders because all relations will be quite different than they are now. In principle, I believe that lawmaking should go, and I agree with my colleague Arlovic that this should be a previous reading, because there is a lot of indetermination, we do not have too many answers to the questions that I have asked myself. And only on the way to Article 21 should the administration not be extended and new people should be hired, but it is certain that the current urban, county and municipal administrations should also ensure in their work the technical part of the work for young people, for youth councils. Because if something is already done by volunteering, if it's a desire to strengthen the influence of young people, then we should certainly say there should be an imperative exercise, because what if we run into some local sheriff or person who has no understanding of the work of the youth council, they won't give up a person. There'll always be some other job, more urgent work and everything. I know someone's gonna tell me in the election it's gonna be determined. But a lot of water passes through or flows through the Sava River or the Drava River until the election, and jobs can stand for it. Therefore, I personally am not in favour of giving passage to this law in this way, I think we should go as a previous question because there are too many things that young people resent, and it seems to me if something is done for and in the interests of young people that they should listen to and their voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73121	Thank you. And the final 5-minute debate with the SDP club, the respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73122	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to say at the end of the debate that a lot of issues have been raised in the debate, not only for this part of the policy towards young people and for young people involved in the decision-making process, but also for a number of other issues are open here. That is why the SDP Club proposed a conclusion, to reach a conclusion when discussing this bill, that is to oblige the Government to submit within 30 days a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the National Programme for Youth Action, since it is the only and strategic and action document defining policy towards young people. I'd just like to point out here that it's already proposed by the HNS several times, that... I have already suggested that twice so far in this term, that every time because of most, it has been rejected and that I hope that after this debate, finally and here HDZ's majority will have mercy and allow governments to report what they are and how much good they say, for young people in Croatia in this last period. [[You don't understand.]] The second thing that I think is important to say in view of the discussion that it was necessary to do very much to define the criteria for who can be considered a youth association, who can be considered a youth association, what is much more important that we in Croatia should finally define the issue of networking and the issue of a roof youth association in Croatia for at least two reasons. The first reason that the government would then and from the level of government have partners with which to cooperate on youth issues, but on the other hand, it seems to me no less important, participation in... The European Commission programme in which we can participate as a candidate country as a partner country is impossible in many other projects and withdraw funds from certain funds. [[You don't understand.]] We in Croatia simply can't today because we don't have roof youth associations, or we don't have agencies to deal with young people themselves. And in the end, we've already talked here several times, and now it seems to me like it's a problem, I think we need to establish new institutional solutions in the very system of state administration that would deal with young people. I've talked about it a few times, today we have government offices for minorities and gender equality and for succession and for co-operation with The Hague, and I don't know what not, I think it would be okay to make the final office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for young people, because this is how every ministry deals with you in Croatia today, in practice it means that young people don't really do anything at all. Therefore, this debate may also be an incentive for the ministry itself to open up these issues around young people, and it may be a good way to really accept our proposal to deliver a report on the implementation of the national programme together with the operational plans, and then finally we can discuss it systematically. We discussed gender equality, we will discuss the report on the implementation of the National Minorities Act, we discussed the implementation of the Law on Defence, I think that young people deserve to be discussed in the Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73123	Thank you. State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73124	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here at the end of this debate I would like to thank everyone together for participating in the debate. Of course, the Proposer will consider all these proposals that have been made today and I believe that some of them will be incorporated into the draft law, i.e. the draft law for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73125	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a bill on youth councils. I give the vote the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on youth councils is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please vote. The result? With 79 votes to, 3 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion. We still have a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Club which the Government does not accept, which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 30 days on the implementation of the National Youth Action Programme together with operational plans. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 5 for, 7 abstentions, 65 against. The conclusion didn't get the required majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73128	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By submitting a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Cost of Assets, the Government is prescribed by that same law and its Article 37. In carrying out this legal obligation, the Government is, that is, submitting a report to this High House for the second time. For the first time, the government fulfilled its obligation last year, in 2005, when it submitted a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law for 2003 and 2004. The High House adopted the report at a session held on 17 March 2006 when it obliged the government to declare itself in the next report on objections and proposals. Constitutional law is a roof law that regulates in a broad sense the rights of national minorities, which in a democratic society should be a guarantee of the protection and prosperity of these minorities in society. In addition to this Act, there are a series of laws that are more detailed in the ways in which these rights should be protected and implemented, such as the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, the Law on the Selection of Members of Representatives of the Units of Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, and the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly and other Acts. However, what seems important to me is to note that it is not only the drying of legal texts because the value of the protection of rights is valued and witnessed in their practical application, and it does not only mean the mere use of language and letter as essential features of national minorities but also the protection of the cultural diversity of minorities and active participation in the political and public life of society. Any rights and values to be protected in a national minority are somehow united and the emphasis is placed on those rights to be protected. In Article 7 of this Constitutional Law, which stipulates that the right of national minorities to serve in particular by means of their own language and letter of private use, and in public official use, to education and education in language and letter to serve, to use their signs and symbols, to cultural autonomy, to demonstrate their religion and to establish religious communities, to access means of public communication and to carry out the activities of public communication, to self-organise... interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Representativeship in representative bodies at national and local level, and administrative and judicial bodies, participation of members of national minorities in public life and local affairs management through councils and representatives of national minorities, and protection against any activity that threatens or threatens their survival, exercise of rights and freedoms. The realisation of these, this constitutional law of guaranteed rights, is shown in this Report, and the expenditure of the funds left for this purpose in the budget is shown, so just let me point out that, compared to last year, the total financial resources spent on funding rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law have increased 33% compared to 2004 in terms of the budget of certain resolutions and national minorities. This Report, compared to the Report last year, shows the spending of funds not only on certain activities but also on the activities achieved in relation to the individual national minority. Also this Report compared to last year's Report is a little more comprehensive, especially in the section relating to the Council of National Minorities, and because only in 2005 were all councils actually formed and they started working. As I said earlier, here the Government of the Republic of Croatia at least tried to review it, this House of High will assess if it succeeded, refer to the comments and suggestions made in relation to the previous report. In the conclusions you will see and notice that, for example, the use of the language and letters of national minorities in official use, or the requirements for their use, are reduced even though the judicial authorities and the administrative authorities are willing to make this possible. However, this means that we should all together encourage national minorities to, to exercise their right to do so and to seek the use of the official language and letters in the environments in which they have the right to do so. Dear ladies and gentlemen, let me just point out that the implementation of the Constitutional Law under the obligation arising from the Constitution law itself is an obligation stemming from international contracts and acts of which the Republic of Croatia is a party. First of all, the Framework Convention on the Rights of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. The Republic of Croatia is also obliged to submit reports through the Government on the implementation of these international documents, however, dynamics, or deadlines when reports are submitted are not simultaneous. Let me, therefore, just point out that, with regard to the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, this High House will be referred to, or is already addressed, a full report, which we hope will soon be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73129	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities? Report? President, the esteemed representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've all received a report from our Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities and I'll just read the most important parts. The 2005 report was estimated to be more quality than the previous report but still has conceptual shortcomings. Such an opinion has been expressed that all issues concerning the implementation of the Constitutional Law should be treated with equal attention. The debated report on some issues gives a detailed description of the factual situation, e.g. in the case of elections for representative bodies of local and regional self-government. While other important questions are only referred to as problems. It is recommended for the Government to remove these shortcomings in the following reports as well as that the next reports, in addition to the findings and descriptions of the problem, because it is mainly not trouble-set this report, but actually one inventory of what was made. It also contains an analysis of the causes of non-compliance with certain minority rights and proposals for concrete measures to be taken. As regards the finding in the Report that the use of the language and letter of national minorities in judicial and administrative bodies, i.e. procedures, shows a tendency to continuously decline, i.e. that the number of requests for the use of minority languages and letters is continuously reduced, although administrative and judicial authorities are ready to accept the use of minority languages in procedures is said to be taken with the reserve. The hearing sets out a provision to the Committee stating that the request by the party for the use of minority language in the judicial language is not permitted although it is explicitly requested. Regarding the problem of minority representation in the media and the access of minorities to the media, it has been pointed out that, in the report, it only finds that the situation is not satisfactory but that it should, but there is no indication how the problem intends to be solved. When it comes to public radio and TV stations, especially HRT has been said that the government has legal instruments there. It has been pointed out that the fulfilment of the media's established obligations towards minorities financed from public sources cannot be treated as interference in editorial policy but rather as a requirement for compliance with the legal obligation. By asking the issue of distribution and spending of funds provided by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the purposes of education and education in the language and issues of national minorities, an explanation has been requested when, in accordance with the repeated requirements of the Committee, the Ministry will establish and make public declaration of the criteria for the allocation of resources and the methodology for monitoring the spending. As regards the exercise of minority rights to representation in administrative and judicial bodies, the Government's assessment is that by adopting several laws on courts, on civil servants, etc. the conditions created for the exercise of that minority right in practice. However, it has been warned that direct engagement of the Government and the Central Authority, the national authorities, as well as constant supervision of the enforcement of the laws governing this right, is necessary for practical implementation. After the debate was held, the committee decided by majority vote, 9 votes for and one abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73131	Thank you very much, but you're staying right here. I am opening a debate, for the Club of National Minorities in the first part will be a respected representative of Furio Radin, and in the second part a respected representative of Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will stop at just a few points of this report, and then will continue my colleague Zdenka Chuhnil who will process some other problems because when it comes to the report, the implementation of the Constitutional Law for a certain year, which is, for the past year 2005, then this is also an opportunity to talk about certain problems that are being set up or certain parts of the lives of non-well solved national minorities. There is no reason to talk much about things that are well solved, because we believe from the Club of National Minorities that it should, or that it should be normal that the life of one such segment is neither more important nor less important than the other segments of Croatian society, so it should always be normal for it to function in a way that pleases members of this case of national minorities. So neither better nor worse than the other segments of Croatian society. When we want to talk about the critical points that they do, which this report does, and in some ways speak at least mention, then the opinion of the National Minority Club that these critical points are not placed, they are not explained in the light that we expect, which is expected by members of national minorities, so they are not explained in a way that corresponds to the reality as we know it. The most important thing for every national minority is the use of a language or letter, a letter in the case of some minorities in Croatia, because others use the same letter as the majority people used, but when speaking here about the use of language in judicial and administrative procedures and when a decline is observed, and then it is actually explained by the decline in the consciousness of national minorities, I think it is actually one more than another ironic explanation. I'll be clearer. The use of the language and letters of national minorities in judicial bodies, for example, in the conduct of judicial proceedings, almost does not exist. We don't have a percentage here as small as there are, for example, judicial proceedings being conducted in minority language, and why we don't have that percentage, because it would be so small that actually this report would put the problem in a completely different way. We have never even received a report on how much judicial proceedings are conducted in minority languages, and I argue that even when members of the national minorities demand to conduct a procedure in their minority language that they are mostly resisting it. I've also read one play, there are others, if any procedure is to be conducted in any court, or even in my Istria, where, as everyone says, the best solution is to use the language of the national minority and generally respect for the rights of national minorities, you will encounter resistances. When you talk about it, when it comes to IDs. Why is only a small number of members of national minorities actually going and looking for a personal card in the language of national minorities? It's better to say the highest percentage of those who seek belong to my minority, the Italian minority, but also here not enough. For what? Because it's just a problem in the definition of who has the right to a national minority card. That right, there must have been one regression here since the '90s. years away. That's where I have to say there's been a regression, what for? Because by then, at least the bilingual cards in Istria were real territory. So there were bilingual municipalities and in these bilingual municipalities all residents had the right to a bilingual card. And no one was discriminated against. No one had any objections to that. So, the territory was bilingual and all the Croats, Serbs, Italians, all who lived in that municipality had a bilingual card. That's what's left, the fact that it's left in Slovenia. In Slovenia, Italians have, not Italians have the right, but in the municipality of Kopar and the municipalities where the Italians live, they all have bilingual IDs. And Slovenians don't feel less Slovenians. There's no such thing here, and that's why I think there's a certain part of the minority population that thinks it's something that's not good to have because then it marks you in a certain way, only you have a bilingual card and then they don't even ask for such documents. So in the definition of the document itself there is this lack and the normal thing is that we will return to this problem and we will suggest that this problem be solved in one way that is non-discriminatory for national minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73133	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73134	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say, in this year's second time, we're talking about the Minority Report. Unfortunately, every time, the hall is empty, but it's not transmitted. If this contributes to sensitizing the public I am in favour of it but I think that some things should not be pushed under the rug, that minorities and the implementation of constitutional law and minority laws should be spoken of more because then it would not be only a minority problem, I believe that there would be less problems and that we could discuss the relationship of most, minorities. But here is to focus on the report that many have seen as balanced and analytical, but I must say that it is still uncritical and that it lacks an indication of unresolved problems and the way certain problems can be solved. The constitutional law certainly speaks of special rights, the achievement of special freedoms that are enjoyed either individually or collectively, places them in ten points what the secretary has already spoken of here. I'll try to point out just some. When it comes to cultural autonomy, the report says only what funds have been spent. I have to say by looking at the amount that he's really big and we can agree that he's big if we don't know why they're spent, if we don't know that he's participating 19 organized minorities, that 370 associations participate in it, but here we should when we talk about these funds, open up a few questions. No association for us overnight. Why these associations aren't organized into creone associations. We were sort of setting up the law exactly what someone here said today, you know we consulted the Venice Commission, she didn't allow us to talk about roof associations, she didn't allow us to specifically regulate minority associations, but they stayed within the 3 members' associations, which is certainly not good, and today we're talking about 60 associations only of Roma minorities that work for themselves, each applying to funds, and we can really ask the question of how and where these funds are spent. It is interesting that this model was applied only in Croatia, that they did not put pressure elsewhere, there are also roof organisations, elsewhere there are different defined formations of minority associations. Therefore, we make our own legislation, not to be overslaved because we often get a negative break in our heads. Therefore, I think that when it comes to funds, we should have just separated the issue and associations, that is, the formation of a large number of associations and the normal opening and question today, tomorrow, by newing the law in this sense, to see what about roof associations. When it comes to law, or when it's said here in the report on education and education, I'll agree with this report that it's certainly the most done here. But there are problems that we've been talking about for 4-5 years. It's about textbooks, it's definitely about the language care issue, which unfortunately isn't defined in quality by the Captain, or that there aren't enough qualified teachers until certain schools aren't ready to accept it then because it's especially burdensome by such a model. Why for five years, let's say the Ministry doesn't want to solve a case like that? I say we always praise the figures but behind that should actually be one analysis of the problems of the ministry itself where problems exist. I thought my colleague was going to talk about using signs and symbols of minorities that are increasingly a problem and which is increasingly creating incident situations on the ground. The ministry did not speak of any, even though there were several, and although it is possible to avoid the law being applied. In fact, the law clearly states that it is left to the units of local self-government to define it by thinking that it is done at local level, that local units have their own celebrations, their city days, their parish days, etc., when they can or cannot highlight the same flags. However, local self-government units have accepted that they should now create some new laws and that they can only prescribe who they will allow or whom they will not allow, and then it happens that the council is allowed on an institution that does not exist at all because it does not exist, but does not allow associations and institutions that have recorded it for a century. Therefore, the ministry should also take care of this and discuss why there is no such regulation or constitutional law itself. Language and letter service is one of the rights, my colleague spoke a lot about it, but I will say in fact that we in Croatia do not practically have the use or use of minority language... If we exempt the Italian language that is really in use but which is ultimately said that these are only extended Exceptional Agreements across the Istria area, it turns out that very little or almost nothing has been done under the constitutional law, and in particular at the club we were doing an analysis where it proved to be from 39 local self-government units for the Hungarian language, it was carried out in 2, Czechs from 9 to 1, and now that you are not bothered by the data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, do not worry about the rights acquired where the right is acquired by one third of the minority population, if it is incorporated into the statutes then it is not implemented. Here again, the problem has been brought back that the central state office unfortunately did not carry out any single supervision of the statutes of the units of local self-government, and where there were complaints it has transferred all of this but is not being handled even though the constitutional law prescribes a way of handling such cases. Unfortunately, I have to say that as well as the Government has been deaf about several such cases, I will speak specifically of the Daruvar case in my 10 minutes, but we almost have no official language on the ground. Excuse me, minority official language, because very often in all this report it literally states that it is applicable in public use. Once again, private and public use is not regulated by law. The law only regulates official application. So, writing about the free use of language in private speech in this report, I don't think it's worth the report or the ministry, I'll read it later. So I think we should pay a little more attention here. The means of public communication, that is, the media. On the one hand, we talk about how they are completely non-critical or stereotypes, very often in the media there is little talk of minorities. I say, if it's spoken, then it's mostly hate speech, or the use of nationality as the sound of Roma, the Serb did it, too. But unfortunately, what the law should also regulate is to analyse these emissions in minority language which I must say unfortunately is not in Croatia, especially on television. And that's the part we need to talk about. I will end up here because we also talked yesterday about representative bodies or minority self-government which has a lot of problems and will still be talked about and will personally warn my ten minutes of other problems. However, the National Minority Club is not fully satisfied with this report and once again we stress that the Government would have to point out problems, it would have to point out in a way that too many years have passed since the adoption of the law or if we assume that the Constitutional Law has been in force for four years, I think we should do more, less talk only about the means and more about the application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73135	Thank you. For the SDP Club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73136	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! Here, I'm here because we've shown a good example of cooperation. I thank my colleague Gajica for giving me a place for some reason. I'll be brief. It is true that if we look a little retrospectively a few years back, the state of minority rights and those rights stemming from the Constitutional Law are at a higher level than they were before. This report is sort of formal. It finds a certain state, we have seen representatives of the Minority Club are not satisfied, nor are we in the SDP Club quite satisfied with this report because it does not reflect those problems that still exist and that we have not worked on enough. Of course, for the exercise of all rights is the most responsible government, Madam Secretary of State, and we hope that there is a period before us to make further efforts to improve the situation. Of course, we can go right by the law as well as the methodology of this report so let's say that it's not good that in minority media there's no space you should have, I agree, that the problem with education is such that minority groups are not satisfied with the teaching that is being organised, that there is a certain presses in some environments that don't attend classes and that if they attend the language of the national minority there are certain forms of such informal segregation which is certainly not good. We can also analyze other rights. Here, I also have some information on the representation of minority members in the judiciary and the state administration where there is an obvious sub-representation in relation to the Constitutional Law and there are mechanisms to fix it. Obviously, the existing mechanisms are not enough to ensure the necessary representation in the judiciary and the state administration, and obviously if something is not working then it needs to be changed. However, more than these formal shortcomings concern me with something else. I agree with those who say that we have heard many times that national minorities, their culture, are the wealth of every nation and every country. I also agree with the fact that part of Croatian culture is the culture of national minorities and that Croatia as a state and as a cultural community without national minorities would not be what it is. To truly contribute minorities to our community and culture, of course, part of the responsibility lies on minorities. In any event, there must be representatives of Croatia as a state and as political and cultural communities and I am pleased to see this more and more and more and that there is no problem at one fundamental level. However, there is something which is a serious problem and it is a certain state of consciousness. Apart from these problems that we see there are 5% there and 3% there, whether there is more or less emissions that are not seen in the reports or in the numbered data, and that is what worries me the most and the most regrets, and that is a certain barrier between the majority people and some, not always all, some minorities are placed not only for historical reasons and war which has been and the victims who have fallen but also from a narrowness that we all must treat, change, correct and leave behind us. Sad is the data we see when young people plead so that at no cost they don't enter with a minority. It's something that as a finding is for me and as a man and as if you want members of this House to be sad and terrible, and there are more of these examples. Of course, no one forces anyone into marriage especially when this abstract conversation may mean anything, he speaks more about the state of consciousness that we need to change. And to change it, I think we need to know more about each other, that we need to understand more about each other, and that this is the plan, to break down those prejudices which, unfortunately, exist in our country society with our institutions and institutions of culture than national television, media, education, and I would say differently than in certain laws, acts, documents and papers. Certainly, a report like this can't be a cause for any interparty shootings and getting cheap points, I won't use it, of course, in this case, and I don't want to accuse anyone of this or that. And this report we at the SDP Club consider to be a reason to consider where we are, to look at where these weaknesses that are objectively one of the problems that Croatian society has and to work together not only by formal application of the law but also at the core of the creation of those true international relations that will indeed make this Croatia home to both the majority people and the minority people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73137	Thank you. For the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, respected representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73138	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, in the introduction, I will first say that this report bears the title of the Government and that I count on it to carry messages from that title, and that is why I think that through it we should look at and read what might be called minority policy on behalf of the Government. And that's why in this thing I'm going to say there's going to be this kind of type of seal, or if nothing else of my expectation through these reports or about it. It is simply because, according to counterpart Josipovic earlier, it is a major topic or a major problem of minority relations towards society and relations towards minorities, why in the extreme line and what we are talking about today under the provisions of the Constitutional Law of the Government, first of all, the Government is responsible. And I'll agree to two things here. I'll agree to two things at first. In two points of the conclusions of this report, it says that a high level of normative rights has been reached. I agree. There is, there is something else or there is something that needs to be resolved better and different, but first of all, from the Constitutional Law, I agree that we have reached a normative level relatively high or I accept and quite high. The other thing I agree with and also writes in the conclusion that the Constitutional Law does not cover all areas, all areas of natural social life. I also agree that the interests of minorities and minority problems are not exhausting only through what might be called or what, as we call in this report, the implementation of the Constitutional Law. It is also a matter of many things in the legislative sense and in life terms, which is, through which is what I have said minority politics. The third thing that is in the conclusion, with which I do not fully agree, is the following, writes: there is great progress and a visible step. I agree with this progress. I'm not sure it's a big deal. I agree with this step. I'm not sure he's fully visible. All right. Given that this report is related to 2005 and given another thing that we had at the beginning of this year, which is that we've been reviewing the report for two years in reverse, we have only this report established one continuity of regular reporting on the implementation of the Constitutional Law or a little wider to say about the minority problem in society. And one more thing I'm saying is that the Constitutional Law was passed in 2002. In fact, since then, more seriously in society has been working on what is called minority issues. Or to solve minority problems in a more effective way, let's just say. Before that, we had a handful of forgotten states before, and that led to many rights being devastated, that there was an absence of affirmative policy, that it was a long time ago and that we actually had one, from the point of view of understanding minorities in relation to society and societies compared to minorities relatively lost time. And that's why, in fact, we've been given some kind of thickened problem in this time and a great burden that we need to resolve. I'm going to list here, list a few things that I individually want to comment on, and on this report. Firstly, firstly, with what we have good normative solutions, the conclusion is that it is necessary to draw up, below, a legislative framework should be drawn up. We had it on that line here. We had an addition to the Constitutional Court Act. We had an addition to the State's Attorney's Law. We had an addition to the Law on civil servants and officials, and now it's likely that the Constitution should be accompanied by the Law on the Police, perhaps the Law on the Post Office, what do I know about what? This came from the interpretation that, for example, the Constitutional Law on Employment cannot be applied unless it is incorporated into a special law which, in certain areas of social life, regulates the issue of police employment, for example. In courts and so on. And now, let's agree in principle that it's technically important, but we get the next thing. Applying the Constitutional Law with a delay to build a legislative framework spending the next 5 years, perhaps the next 10 years and then what we get from... I am very confident that somewhere the Constitutional Law can be applied practically to the question of employment without this upgrade. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I'm going to mention an example which, before long, happened on my parliamentary question. The answer was: by seeking court employment under the minority representation criteria, man met all the conditions, but he was wrong. He wrote that he belonged, he wrote his nationality, but he didn't write that he belonged to the minority community as if these two things weren't entirely identical in themselves. And then you actually get a cartoon from an explanation but that cartoon is actually a practical example of how it happens? And now that we're talking about this I say legislative... I'm afraid we're going to ask for all these provisions to basically implement the Constitutional Law of Time I'm convinced absolutely unnecessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there can be some major qualifications, but I will refrain from it because now you have an attitude until a number of changes are carried out there some others cannot implement constitutional law. Another thing I want to mention here. About the participation of minorities in the exercise of some of their rights comes from numbers, starts with participation in society and then starts with the 2001 census. It's, of course, legitimate information, a list of legitimate institutes. But you'll see here in the report that there are 770 Serbs in Zadar County, and I think they're wrong too. Another example in Sibenik County where I am, you have 10,000 Serbs in the list, there are 15 in nature. And now I won't bid any further. I'm talking about if, in the application of the constitutional law, we're just going from what it says in the 2001 census without seeing what life is, then we're going to go astray. Then we'll go astray. There are numerous examples in which we have a foreigner on this issue and already now. In this way, when we replace numbers, we actually deny the right to specific people in concrete size by breaking the law in a completely illegal way. The third thing I mention here is what my colleague Zdenka also mentioned, it's a question of bilingualism. I'm not gonna talk about it now, it's not going, but I'll tell you a paradox. There are environments that have built bilingualism into their statutes, environments that have not done so and have the right to do so. But one environment and the other is thinking in a way, and we're going to install it, but we can't apply it yet. You know we'll do that in a year. It's about people thinking in a discreet way, not having the atmosphere to apply that law. They're probably right. But there is a commitment for all of us to change this atmosphere because it also points to the immatureness of relations in that environment. I'm actually pointing to that assignment. Either bilinguality now or it wasn't now. And the people who run the local environments would, one, two, five, all the ones responsible for the local environments, have to show sensitivity to that issue much more than they do now. I'm completely in the clear that and it has to be built, but I have a need, I think you have to see it, and that's what you have to work on. The fifth thing, fourth thing, something that's not the last, definitely comes first. This is a question of the development of environments where minorities are mainly or in the majority. First, I must conclude that minority communities are now deployed right in the middle, in areas where development is missing. Our relationship, therefore the social relationship, I dare say even the government's relationship in this matter, according to the development of these environments is now not satisfactory because they are abandoned and neglected spaces, largely abandoned and neglected spaces. There's a thing to be explained we don't have any money, but these neglected ones and they're not financial categories. I could even list names that don't have development support, not just minorities and I say this, not only in the interest of minorities, but we've left environments that don't have adequate developmental attention from the government. And why now, I could continue to debate, but what worries me is the report on the implementation of the constitutional law is focused on those categories, on formal categories in law enforcement, on figures, on some formal observations, there's no concern about what's going on there, what are these developments, what are the relationships, what are repercussions, what is today, and what we'd like to do tomorrow. These kinds of observations, forecasts, concerns are gone and therefore I see this report as formal and I do not see the government worrying about the position of minorities in society, relations between the minority and the majority and the obligation to resolve things further. I'll say one more thing in the end called a media presentation. Media presentation and minorities and minority stories. It's mostly about minorities and their problems in a sensational sense, in a way that it's interpreted as a case, that it's either manipulations or it's about showing minorities even to hate, and you know as well as I do, minorities are vulnerable groups both by status and by chance and when you present them in the worst possible light, then you get antipropaganda. I'll finish it the next way. I acknowledge the progress made by this report, the progress in the sense that we are now getting more regular reports and something more content, but I am still dissatisfied, we are still dissatisfied with the government's position through, so the attitude I am reading as a minority policy which, in a positive sense, is lagging behind in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73139	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his club right to the word. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Jenna Adam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73140	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its session held on 8 November 2005, the Subcommittee considered the problem of reporting on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in accordance with Article 37. Constitutional law. The subcommittee then concluded that although the Constitutional Law is in force for almost 3 years, and although there is a government obligation to submit to the Croatian Parliament at least one annual report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the spending of the funds provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities, that the Government did not do so either in 2003 or in 2004. For this reason, the subcommittee proposed to consider the mentioned problem and to inform the President of the Croatian Parliament of the failure to comply with the government's legal obligation under the parliament's conclusions. I am pleased to conclude that the reporting situation has improved significantly afterwards. In early 2006, the government also submitted a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law in 2003 and 2004, which was discussed at the 19th session of the Parliament on 17 March this year. The Council then concluded that it accepts the Government's report, but also tasked the Government to submit a report by 30 June of this year on the implementation of the Constitutional Law in 2005 with a statement in that report on the observations and proposals made in the 2003 and 2004 parliamentary debate. As seen, the 2005 report was delivered by the government on 29.6 this year, so within the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament. To put it this way, all government debts so far have been made in connection with the Parliament's reporting and the conditions for future reports to be submitted to the Parliament in due time for this and next year. The Subcommittee on the Rights of National Minorities specifically pointed to the following issues. Problems with the election and functioning of the Council and representatives of national minorities. Non-compliance with the law of guaranteed use of the language and letter of national minorities, even where this is not related to specific financial expenditures, e.g. Emphasis of bilingual names of the place. A detailed analysis of this problem and the taking of effective measures has been requested. The problem is the representation of national minorities in the bodies of the State Administration, the judicial authorities and the authorities of units of local and regional self-government. The need to modify existing models of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, given the overload of minority students, which brings them into an unequal position in relation to other students. The need for future processing and living conditions problems in areas traditionally populated by minority populations to be seen in these government reports. The government has also been asked to report on what it will take to resolve the issues raised in the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers since 7 September 2005. The tendency of a sensitive reduction in the number of minority language speakers, language teaching problems and the letter of national minorities, the unsatisfactory use of bilingual forms, bilingual city names, effective monitoring of the enforcement of local self-government obligations in minority rights by the central government, the problem of access and treatment of minorities and minority languages in the media, especially on television and radio stations. Although the report largely covers issues of interest for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the objectives of this document are too general and repeated. I expected a document that would take concrete steps to improve the position of members of national minorities. Unfortunately, the areas of the economy and the return and renewal cannot be covered by a report on the application of the Constitutional Law, since these issues are also not subject to the regulation of the Constitutional Law. I believe that the Government and the competent authorities must establish in the implementation of the Law of Guidelines for a more effective exercise of minority rights. By observing the overall political and social situation in the Republic of Croatia, although it is evident that progress has been made in achieving minority rights during 2005, the fact is that there are still many open issues in the implementation of the Constitutional Law and that some minority rights need to be put into great effort to implement the Constitutional Law and live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73141	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73142	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I know the concentration has eased, that the topic for some is uninteresting, but I'm still going to let myself repeat some things. I was talking about culture and cultural amateurism through cultural autonomy in order to retain actually my own identity, nurture my culture. We've already talked about spending a lot of money on this. All together when we meet, we talk about multiculturalism, we talk about the richness of diversity. Unfortunately, I have to pass on messages from the field that minorities feel alone, that from multiculturalism remains very little and that there is no common persuasion of culture, that there is no common tolerance and access to such problems on the ground. I'm afraid the Dutch situation will repeat to us when Van Gogh was killed, when it turned out that indeed 2, 3 cultures live parallel to each other and that only enough is one small spark that can create problems and then points out in fact that all of us minorities live in our world, that attempts to establish closer contacts together and build some kind of interculturalism, unfortunately very often ends only on the desires of minorities, and most of us close the doors thinking that when she gave the means that this process is over. But I did not answer to talk about this segment, but first of all, I will repeat the segment of the problem of bilingualism, the problem of the official use of language. I don't know who the author of this report is, but I think it's inappropriate and unworthy in this act to have things that don't concern law and bilingualism at all, because it's known that bilingualism or official use of minority language is being carried out in the bodies of local self-government units, in front of state judicial authorities in the first degree, it's known that stamps, titles, etc., but there's not a word on page 20, but it's said that in x, ipsion settlements, that I don't bother you, there's a bilinguality where there's not a single institution. So writing this in this report is really unnecessary. Equally so that the Czech language can be used in Daruvar throughout the area. I will repeat what I have already said here, gentlemen, the private and public use of the language is free in both the Constitution and international acts, unfortunately the official use of the law on official use of the language and should be kept in mind that indeed when we report where the minority language is in official use, we should pay particular attention to that. Why are there no IDs, why are there no bilingual names, why are there no judicial or judicial acts bilingually conducted? It's not because these bodies don't want it, they refuse it, and normal people then get over it, and that's why it sounds worse to me, that's why it sounds so much worse to me, that we just want to actually solve the reform, and not in practice. Because how to explain that in the coming period that the Government will seek to work together with the associations of national minorities to develop a campaign to support the use of minority languages in official procedures and strengthen the awareness of the national minority about the need to preserve its own language as a significant element of its cultural identity when and where there is a century-long right, where it is undeniable, the law is not implemented, the Central State Office does not exercise control, the Government does nothing. Therefore, I will agree with my colleague that, who spoke to me, a colleague of Gajica, that indeed the form is good, the law is good, implementation and minority policy on the ground is not. So once again, I would really ask that when we write about it, we really make sure that it is in the spirit of the law. This is where the Slovaks are mentioned, mentioned Josephovac where it says it is embedded in the statute but not implemented. So someone had to ask the question why it's not being implemented, it's not enough just to find it embedded in the statutes. Obviously, there's a reason why she's not having a good time. I agree that maybe the minority itself doesn't want it, but then it should have been said that this minority or that minority or that environment has no interest, that it will not implement it, that it is then unnecessary to build into their statutes and really make sure that once we know where that right exists, where that right does not want to be consumed, or where it is wanted, and there are obstacles to administrative, that it really does. I also want to say something about electronic media. I'll agree again that the really legitimate framework is very good. We have also defined this problem in the Law on HRT, and we have also defined it in the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, not to say that we have defined this problem when we were talking about the media, or about the Fund for the Development of pluralism, unfortunately that segment is not well done here either. It is not done because there is no will, neither the Government nor the local self-government units to resolve it, because believe me, once again, it takes very few resources that can be found, or even in the fund, there are some places, but simply there are no laws, there are no sanctions, and I think that in due course it will cause even more problems for us, here we are in the second report, and here we have already mentioned the third one that was implemented by the Council of Europe, and it is also the part under which the Charter obliges us to do so. It accurately defines 6 and 7 languages if Russian and Ukrainian are separated, which must be taken into account in how to protect them. I think I'm going to repeat a part of what I've already said that the only segment that is positive and that we can really point out, normal problems always exist in practice is education that makes a lot, but still depends on the middle to the middle, which shouldn't be if the law is unique, if the law that everyone needs to apply, and not just some. So, I say, education and language certainly work a lot in that part, but the media have failed completely and once again I appeal that through this report it may be one of the conclusions and indications that more should be done in the field of electronic media. Not reporting on minorities, but reporting in minority language, and then it is certainly known that this will be a minority topic because if we can't meet the standards we had until the '90s. For years, then it's hard to talk about some higher standards. We're up to the '90s. the years had chronicles in minority languages, they took half an hour a week depending on the minority, but these chronicles were still the living language of minorities that made up this second segment, the cultural segment, normally because without language there is neither an upgrade of culture, tradition or anything related. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73143	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73144	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Ms. Secretary of State. We are just ahead of us with a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the spending of funds secured in the state budget for the needs of national minorities for 2005. By way of derogation from Article 37(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is the duty of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report annually to this Honorary House on the implementation of constitutional law and on the spending of funds in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. Namely, this thorough report of a very clear and transparent nature has created an assumption, primarily legislative, in order to create an even better and more tolerated atmosphere in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, that indeed all those minorities feel Croatia as their own home, as their own country, and that there is no difference in any approaches, any social life, any political, any cultural, and one that means all our lives from sport to environmental science. Of course, the government’s overall policy, based on this report, has also been reflected in the problems of national minorities in various aspects of social life. It is wider than the constitutional law determines because reports on the implementation of the constitutional law and the spending of the budget made relate to the exercise of the rights guaranteed by certain provisions of the constitutional law alone. What should certainly be pointed out is that both the provision of constitutional law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted more and more each day with the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples and developing understanding of solidarity and tolerance and dialogue in general. Of course, overnight to achieve ideal solidarity, understanding and all manner of tolerance is not primarily possible for the development of all other social spheres in which we need to make additional efforts. The implementation of the constitutional law also represents the implementation of obligations under international contracts which the Republic of Croatia is a party. In the first row... Conventions on the Rights of National Minorities and the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, this text of the report covers all sorts of areas of science, education, culture, state administration, local and regional (area) self-government, justice, specific programmes and the area of work of councils for national minorities. That is why today we have also had the opportunity to discuss how this has been resolved in the spirit of this report, it proposes to resolve the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government. So I will also quote this article that is clearly talking about modern approach, and I would say a very understandable and durable approach to all those who feel like minority people in the Republic of Croatia. "The municipal chief, the mayor or mayor has a deputy elected in the general direct elections according to a special law. In particular, from the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, Article 9 in units of local or regional self-government in which members of national minorities are entitled to a proportionate representation in the presidential body of units of local and regional self-government or units of local and regional self-government in which members of national minorities constitute the majority of the population, the mayor or mayor has 2 deputies. In units of local or regional self-government where members of national minorities are entitled to a proportionate representation in the presidential body of units of local and regional self-government. The second deputy is elected by the representative body from the ranks of members of the national minority, or from the ranks of the Croatian people in units of local and regional self-government where members of national minorities make up the majority of the population. Just like this, a normative solution is a prerequisite for the development of the very spirit of our reports. What is most important to stress is that in municipalities, cities and counties too, all assumptions are being made that minority rights provided for by the said legislation could indeed be realised. Therefore, this report also shows that this is the way to move forward because it is more quality than it was in previous years, and I believe that we are going to seek to resuscitate all those situations that in the areas of municipalities, cities and counties show that they could first be resolved by a legislative framework and ultimately create a real sense of tolerance and mutual understanding at a fully high and highest level. I therefore believe that this report should be fully accepted and all the useful suggestions from the debate so far and I believe that those that will follow can be incorporated into one of the following reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73145	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic. Otherwise, it's time to report a ten-minute hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73146	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have received a report on the implementation of the constitutional law, in fact by delivering this report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has carried out its obligation under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of March this year to which the Parliament has tasked the Government to submit a report on the implementation of the constitutional law by 30 June 2005. When discussing the government's obligation to submit a report once a year, it should be stressed that this government has resolved the years-long delay in the Parliament's report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and thus the conditions for future reports to be filed in due time and that means once a year as prescribed by the law. Although the report cannot cover the entire policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to national minorities but only the part that speaks of the implementation of the constitutional law and the spending of the state budget on only the exercise of the rights guaranteed by certain provisions of the law. However, the width that is given in the report, which covers the fields of science, education, culture, administration, local and regional self-government, justice and the work of the Council for... They're talking about the quality of the report the government sent us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report we have received is actually what needs to be realistic and detailed description of the actual state of affairs, so it differs from all the reports so far and it is incomparably more quality than the reports the Government made for 2004. The report shows that participation of members of national minorities in public life and management in local affairs despite good examples of certain cities and municipalities and counties is not very good because there are still many units of local self-government that have not aligned the statutes with the Constitutional Law or provided funds for conditions for the work of councils and representatives of national minorities. However, the National Minorities Council positively assessed the government's commitment to implementing the Constitutional Law. The Council for National Minorities warned the authorities of the state authorities of insufficient representation of minority members in the authorities of the administration and judicial authorities that no official record of representation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration and judicial authorities should be made of the implementing rules which will enable it. In this respect, the Government's assessment of both the Council and the Committee on Human Rights is supported that the adoption of several laws, the Law on Courts, the Law on Civil Servants, etc. the conditions created for the exercise of this minority right in practice, which implies constant supervision of central government bodies over the implementation of laws. The report shows that in 2005 the funds for cultural autonomy programmes of national minorities increased by 11% compared to 2004 which means 24.5 million kuna was granted to achieve cultural autonomy of NGOs. What should be pointed out in particular and what takes a significant place in the report when it comes to not only the implementation of the Constitutional Law but to improving the living conditions and standards of the lives of national minorities, which is the implementation of the national programme for Roma and the action plan of the decade for Roma inclusion. Since the adoption of the National Programme for Roma, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been actively involved through the Ministry, creating conditions for the systematic implementation of the programme by pawning public officials in promoting Roma rights, resulting in a positive public and citizens of the Republic of Croatia towards the Roma population in our country. Many seminars and workshops held for education and enlightenment of Roma have not gone unnoticed in Europe as well. Thus, the representative of the Council of Europe sent a letter to the Deputy Prime Minister, congratulating the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the good progress made in implementing the National Programme for Roma and saying that during frequent visits to the Republic of Croatia, he witnessed the great progress made in improving the position of the Roma national minority in Croatia and the efforts made to do so. Finally, the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and on the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia points to the ongoing efforts that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making in line with the financial opportunities to ensure the full exercise of the rights of national minorities. And he would have concluded, God would have given that Croats in neighbouring countries have at least a fraction of the rights, at least a third of the rights that national minorities in Croatia achieve, and that is why I think this report should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73147	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73148	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, the report we are discussing today is certainly better than the one we discussed last year. But, as already said here, it's still not what it's supposed to be. And in this respect, it can be said that this report is also addressed in the way it is drawn up and by the elements it has included and in the way that it has handled certain topics in a way that illustrates our overall minority policy, or rather illustrates the real state of minority policy that the Government has in this area, that is, in this sphere. And that report is not just a technical matter. He is a document that shows the real state of practice of minority policy by the government and how it sees it and how it is done. What I said on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Communities, I will repeat here in one piece. It is unusual for us to discuss such important matter, such an important problem we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament with all due respect for the Secretary of State, Mrs Bagic, who certainly belongs to veterans of this problem in the government and not just these, but a whole set of legal issues. It is unusual that there are no senior government representatives in the debate on this report, especially if there is a fact that minority representatives are an important component in the policy of the government. And if this report is thought to have been drawn up this way enough to practice this policy and if it is thought that the self-species of minority representatives on this topic is sufficient for this topic as actually dominant speakers on this topic today in the Parliament, then it is not a good indicator. Not a good indicator for two reasons. First, if we really want to raise the level of political culture in this topic and this problem then it deserves something greater and something broader than what we have at the moment and an engagement that is of course not just a primordial character and is not just a declarative character but also a real and content character. If minority policy is an important and important component of both today and tomorrow's Croatian policies, then it certainly deserves the leading people of this policy to hear something that is said in this report or what is reported in this report. And I hope that next year the circumstances in this regard change. The other thing I'd like to say about this report is he's richer with information, richer with content but completely unequal when it comes to content. It is dedicated to a number of sides of the state of minority councils in relation to some of the facts and, at the same time, to one important segment of minority policy towards cultural autonomy, where different aspects of education and language and cultural and media and each other’s policies are devoted to only a few lines. It just doesn't seem normal. And I think we should pay a lot more attention to that thing. For what reason? I'll give you two examples. I will give an example of the necessity of education for multiculturality and the necessity of education for multicultural and historical and literary and linguistic identities that Croatia has and in which, of course, minority communities no matter how small they are participating from national to local level. They contribute from national to local level. This report could at least illustrate the situation, at least illustrate those elements of multiculturalism but unfortunately it does not illustrate it. On the other hand, I'm going to set another example. Croatia, of course, is also a multiconfession state. Although this matter is regulated by other special laws, this is also significantly linked to minority issues and minority identity. And it would be quite good if this report could read and notice that spirit of multiconfessionality. Today we have had the opportunity to see about the day of the municipality of Iron or Vriginmost as it was recently called, that in marking that day other than the mayor of the municipalities, representatives of other levels of local government and neighbouring municipalities we have naturally present both priests and one another, I do not know whether or not the third confesions. It doesn't happen in all other places, and it seems to me it's kind of natural and it's the most natural. On the other hand, what's already here seems to me to be someone talking about, perhaps Dr. Josipovic, which is that we don't actually have in this report a general assessment of the general picture, of the general view of the circumstances in which minority policy actually takes place. Whether options normably regulated by the Constitution and constitutional law and other laws are realized under favourable circumstances or are realized in some unfavourable circumstances that can be reality for any reason and we need to make them change. For example, a very important component is public and media space. To what extent does public and media space contribute to the creation of minority culture as a component of Croatian society? To what extent is minority identity understood as a component of the general Croatian national identity, and is it really the key public opinion creators such as individual daily papers or individual national television houses contributing to it, or are they seriously detachable as can be seen back several months in some cases? So instead of contributing to understanding minority issues, integration of minorities is actually happening the opposite and vice versa. And I would like to say from this report it is not possible to see to what extent and how, in what way both the majority people and members of minority nations, minority communities overcome difficulties in what is called the creation of a new policy in Croatia whose component is minority policy. I wish those future reports were less factographic, and it's a good thing they're richer facts because they weren't that much last year and they were more analytical. To show a more complex picture of the state of minority issues, the conditions within which they come true than this is now the case. And that more in this problem when preparing the report is discussed with minority, key minority institutions and that then there is actually a picture that would certainly be a significant contribution to the debate that was certainly not bad today. It was content, it was positive and could be with one such report not only content and positive but could be extremely productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73149	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, a five-minute debate by the respected representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73150	Here, Mr. President, I'll just point out something I haven't said in my previous debate yet. Namely, those mechanisms that already exist in the law, i.e. relevant bodies, supervision of the work of municipal, urban and county, representative and other executive bodies, need to play even more the role that has really been done to them with these existing laws, which is in the sense that despite the regulations that already exist, the legislative framework that has already been adopted to create an atmosphere in practice, starting with all the celebrations of the day of municipalities, cities and counties and for more to be truly one of the solemn defiles of all differences that can exist in one developed and civilised country that really wishes for all citizens to improve, happiness and satisfaction. Of course, this will be an incentive for minority peoples living in the Republic of Croatia to help create such an atmosphere in those countries where Croats represent a minority and I believe that this very honorable House, the Croatian Parliament must play that valid role. Of course, I'd like to point out what we lack in the media. I think that the media also need to play a useful role precisely in creating a tolerated, resourceful atmosphere in their shows, mainly public television, on those shock shows that must also be shown in action, i.e. By showing all those important events from culture, the sport of the people concerned that it can also be shown. What the constitutional law is not an obligation, and this Croatian government is doing more than others so far, is also talking about creating an economic development of the return and restoration of the actually destroyed houses of the minority, members of the minority people, that even though this report is not covered. I would also like to point out the wish that the Croatian Government must continue to work on these very economic things that it does and the great efforts are also making assumptions for employment, but also for all those matters concerning the state administration of the judicial authorities. What I would point out, and some of the speakers seem to me really well-intentioned but unfoundedly mentioning language in judicial bodies, mostly courts. I have the opportunity to say from my own experience that many minority peoples do not want to use their native language but even worse understanding of Croatian language just now want to show, in part, that they want to, that the procedure is also being conducted in Croatian literary language. This is what is happening in some environments not because someone would bear a consequence or be forced but simply by creating such an atmosphere that almost minimal and tolerated differences are indicated, so it is not also used by the law and constitutional law. I believe that we will all do more together for our minorities in the Republic of Croatia and that together with minorities living in the Republic of Croatia we will also make for Croats living in other countries where Croats are in the minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73151	Thank you. State Secretary, Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73152	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am certainly glad that the effort that has been made in this second report has been recognised. It testifies that with continuity we hope, we'll get better. That is why, with the recognition of this shift and these criticisms given on this report, they are indeed welcome, because they show that we must approach with due attention these reports which here are said when, by their very definition, they are always somehow formal. In any event, this report speaks of a report on the implementation of the constitutional law and the expenditure on budgets, which may result in too much attention being paid only to budget spending. On the other hand, this law is not complete because it deals with the application of the constitutional law and it indicates fundamentally what is the principle of this law and the implementation of what is prescribed by the constitutional law, of course other segments than in the economic segments, this success of the government's policy towards minorities can be seen in general, because, since the report is always formally and dry, perhaps in part, in this state and spending of funds in these figures, it could reflect the policy of the common society and then the Government, but it seems to me that no report can fully show this objective and satisfy that task nor should it be because the success of society according to phenomena in this case, or according to certain categories of citizens in the case of national minorities shows especially in everyday life and in the reactions to individual situations that may arise. in that sense, if there is a kind of unpreparedness or even perhaps ignorance of the environment, the local environment should respond to it. This should be addressed both by local environments and by the Government, for example, by administrative authorities when carrying out administrative oversight in judicial bodies, if not respected. There were several critical tones in the courts here. I read again this part of the report and he says that indeed in the Istrian county, the jurisdiction of the County Court in Pula was not really any requirement to conduct proceedings in the language of the national minority. The courts have a duty to record and warn the party and to make a record of it. It is therefore easy to see in such situations that something exists and reacts and that is, a government-level duty, the Ministry of Justice and should then be acted upon. I therefore thank you for, both in support and in positive reactions to this report and for pointing out what this report should include in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-05-0.u73153	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you know, tomorrow at 10:00, there's the Independence Day Ceremony. I'd like the MPs and the MPs to be in the hall at 15 to 10 and to be in as many as possible. The bigger the number. It is, however, a session of the Croatian Parliament, a solemn session, so that all MPs try to be as many at this solemn session as possible. On Wednesday, we continue the meeting at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the drug control strategy still on the agenda. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00, and before that, I'll see you at the wedding of those who go. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK. Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the spending of funds secured in the state budget for the needs of national minorities for 2005. I give the vote the following conclusion: The proposed Report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 74 votes for, 8 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
