ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66625	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, let me begin with a few introductory words regarding the proposal for a national strategy. In fact, we're on February 17th, and you'll remember you started with the public debate procedure, we opened a public debate on the national strategy, but also on the package of laws that I'm holding here will soon be in your benches. In this public debate that has been going on for over a hundred days, more than 70 different subjects participated who have made their observations, suggestions, observations largely richer in what and our knowledge, and in fact we can absolutely say that we have more quality material today. Last week we held a workshop, a two-day workshop involving representatives of all union centres, representatives of all chambers and representatives of patient associations. Two days where it literally worked from morning to night, we managed to agree to the most possible content of this strategy, and I don't think I prejudge when I say that we really have quality and good material, material that we can be proud of. It is on the initiative of the social partners, and above all, the union sides, that we included an action plan in the strategy. It was in some way the conclusion and the previous debate that was being held here. The action plan in which we have clearly placed the operators, the deadlines for the implementation of certain activities and I think that we are, in fact, absolutely on the trail of the best solutions where in fact everyone can be very clear and clear about what we are going to do in these five years. When we talk about basic settings, i.e. the specifics of this National Health Development Strategy for the five-year period, so 2006-2011. allow me in a few words to actually explain them to you, i.e. to show them to you. In the first place, and I think it's actually matured time to start, which is to strengthen preventive activities. At a recent ministerial conference of the European Union countries where a beautiful presentation was actually held under the Austrian presidency, it was seen that Croatia has unfortunately not developed or developed preventive activity compared to the countries of the European Union. This adds to the fact that from 1998 until the end of 2003, the number of preventive checks or systematic examinations has dropped by more than 60% and is absolutely one of the alarms. Here I will give you one cross-section or data that I am presenting right now, so according to the main health goals that were during the Austrian Presidency, where, for example, for early breast cancer detection programmes in the European Union, where practically all countries, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Finland, France, Greece, Great Britain, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Austria, Portugal, Sweden and Spain and even six nets, so countries that have joined the European Union have early breast cancer programmes and, of course, the question is where we are. We want to be in this society because it's actually what health policy has to be based on, so it doesn't say the people for free, it's better to prevent than treat and I think it's actually the poorest and the best way to do it is this. What are these preventive activities? One of those ordinary ones, which we have already implemented, and which we are gradually developing, are clearly so-called. preventive checks, and they are dominantly older than 50 years. Why 50 years old? Well, because the waist actually showed us a clear and epidemiological picture that the frequency of certain diseases is wherever and where greater and for those lifetimes. And here's one of the results we have for 2005. Look how alarming that is. Of the nearly 12,000 preventive examinations over the age of 50 that were carried out during 2005, 43% of them were non-medical people who thought they were healthy, 43% of them found a certain problem, and even 23% or an absolute number of 2677 people found some significant pathology. Whether it's a high-pressure disease, heart disease, blood vessels, diabetes or some kind of malignant tumor. And this absolutely strengthens us in order that prevention must be something that we must focus all our attention on. We also want to launch a national programme to prevent diabetes. I think we can boast, and I was asked what about your national programme, so Croatia was still a feather in that national programme in 1985. Our Institute for Sugar Disease, Wolf Vrhovac, has just become the World Health Organization reference centre based on this national programme, and we don't have it right now. Sugar disease, and we all know it very well, is unfortunately a huge public health problem in Croatia and there is no reason not to support such things and not to strengthen them. The only part we've already started through these preventive checks where actually routinely every one since the '50s, every third year we're practically determining blood sugar and of these 23%, so, states, pathological conditions that we've discovered most of it basically refers to heart and blood vessels diseases and diabetes. And it's the best way to prevent complications. It's a benefit for the individual, but also for the welfare of society because it's the largest part of these people, so we're talking about 50 years, still a working-active population. National programme for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. And that's where we've already started some things. Here, a few days ago, the Governing Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute also increased the amount and financial related to the tertiary prevention of cardiovascular diseases. So, preventing complications in such a way that we doubled the position for so-called. Coronalography or treatment procedure, therefore, of Angine pectoris itself, i.e. pre-infarct conditions. And on the territory of all of Croatia. Not only for individual centres but for the territory of all Croatia. And that's what must be our priority. The program and early detection of individual malignancies. Here, I have actually given a clear example of the European Union, that must be our perspective. Early to discover an individual sow that actually the world is able to discover. So, where we have the degree of detection, technologically speaking, or whatever else you want, is practically of importance. And I would like to announce that next week we will present to the Government the National Programme for Early Disclosure of Breast Cancer, which will consist in practically being the county public health services, under the patronage of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and screening, therefore, the breakthrough will be done through mammography in all women in Croatia, every other year, between 55 and 69 years of age, and according to the guidelines we have around the world, or Europe. And it's a big project, it may be the most important project we have in Croatia, in the health system. For the following year, I want to announce a project related to the tumor-based large intestine, and unfortunately, the occurrence of this tumor-seat, therefore, is increasing among our population, and of course we have to put an end to it. The second setting, i.e. the basic specifics that we have in the National Strategy that we propose in the National Health Development Strategy for this 5-year period, is to improve the efficiency of the system in providing services. We keep talking about having problems. Problems because we divided the system like everyone else into a system of primary, secondary and tertiary health care, and thus we actually formed or wanted to form a pyramid. Unfortunately, that pyramid of ours has turned around. We will not go into why, as it would certainly lead us far and far into the debate, but what is the fact that we want 85% of the case in the perspective of the future to be resolved precisely in the context of primary health care. And I think we can do it, so we can do it. How? Well, here, I'll give you a classic example. Data. In 2000, the number of contracted teams in pediatrics was practically over 270. In 2001, it fell below 270 to 268, 2002, held at that number 268, 2003, 262 and it continued to drop to no one watching. The pediatrician's gone, the kids are going where, which one? They go into general family medicine, parents are dissatisfied and the administration does nothing. This is exactly what must be part of this strategy, meaning to observe the system as a whole, not particularly. And so, to open up in this case a pediatric office, to keep the net as it is, as it exists, but of course it should work on it. And it's not just financial, it's actually the point and the thinking of the one who's leading the process. The same situation is practically in gynecology. Here, look at the data we practically made in the 2004 analysis. We're all on the trail of the most intelligent policy, and I don't think there's anyone here who's going to say it doesn't agree. But the 2004 data says something different. The number of examinations, and the profession says that during one normal pregnancy, so a pregnancy that is not pathological, in which we have no problems, the number of examinations should be at least 6. 6 views of all of our pregnant women, therefore, were practically 80% pregnant. And we can say relatively that it's kind of satisfying. But the waist also says that during normal pregnancy there should be at least 2 ultrasounds and there is catastrophic data. 14% of our pregnant women in 2004 had 2 ultrasounds or more. It's terrible data, it's inadmissible stuff. And it's not a matter, so now there's a financial amount, as we keep saying. No, the thing is the organization, and what we want, we want that number to increase. And he was already practically over 40% in 2005 and so we're not satisfied with that yet because he should be as much as the number of reviews practically above 80% and that would make us satisfied. In addition to the system of strengthening primary healthcare, an absolutely very important segment, but also secondary and tertiary, therefore hospitally, represents information. The information of the primary is practically already in the experimental work. To begin with, we want to unite the 2006 General Family Medicine Hospitals and in the following year expand to all 6 thousand, about as many as there are, hospitals within primary health care. In this way, we will connect every infirmary with the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. What does that mean exactly? For the first time, for the first time in Croatia, we will have disease registers and know exactly how much we have. Because anyone who will have a particular medical chart, electronic, automatic, so literally on one click, therefore no large administration, and this is presented now at a congress held in Osijek, a general family medicine congress where we have shown it and where we have received a large dose of support from this programme to be automated with this chart, but without data on the patient himself, the data on the disease itself is automatically sent to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and the invoice is sent to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and all practically via the open portals. In the perspective it should also be related to smart cards, so the card that practically each of the insurance companies will have and that is a prerequisite, and we learn from others, we learn from the Austrians here who last year introduced such a card and it works impeccably, from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Ministry and the Croatian Institute of Public Health have therefore been there several times, and I must admit that we are delighted with how this system works. The hospital system's information must be a big bite. It can't be implemented in half a year or a year, I think it's actually clear to everyone, but what's important is actually to make a quality and good setting of what we want, and this is an opportunity to announce that we're going to be somewhere by the middle of this month, and we said that we're going to be late, but we're going to be late because believe it's extremely difficult to set up everything we want, and there's a lot of people in this project that we have to admit. We want to actually unite that system. For starters, we would go to five clinical hospitals, or two clinical centres, and then actually compare it to that and extend it to general hospitals. This saying system is extremely demanding and it will certainly require a larger period of time for its full implementation. Of course here is actually in improving the efficiency of the system always and inevitably talking about something that is our reality, and these are waiting lists. Is there a possibility of shortening the waiting list? The answer is yes. Of course to some extent. It's impossible to eliminate them. It didn't work out for any country in the world, so neither will we, but can we shorten them in certain segments? We can. How? One of the best items with information is the practical introduction of accreditation of categorization and therefore the politic development of the health system in Croatia. What does that mean exactly? Our analysis we conducted showed that the number of procedures were diagnostic, whether they are directed towards therapeutic, in hospitals that dissatisfaction centers, so the title to say the centres of excellence is such that a huge number, over 30% of these tests, is repeated when the patient is moving to the center of excellence and the first thing we wondered why is that? Why is a particular search done, for example, in a small hospital, and then the patient moves to another major hospital, all these tests are repeated again, and that's about 30% of the search. I don't have to say what it means for the very patient who's lying there and in that analysis we actually saw that's because we have a problem inside the hospital's categorization. So we didn't standardize certain things, that the bile bladder operation in every hospital where it's done is identical, that the approach to treatment in every hospital is identical and that's what our goal must be, and that means who, which and how it can and must work in a particular institution in such a way that we actually do a quantum job that will be achieved in a particular institution. Polycentric development. I think it's actually one of our priorities. We've been learning again in other countries' experiences, Ireland. Ireland also there at the end of the 1970s actually imagined that it would have one system in which practically one centre was enough to cover the quantum of residents living in that country and really when a man actually only uses numbers to pull out on four and a half million inhabitants of a large mega centre. However, this mega-centre has not proved to be good anywhere. Nowhere, because simply what a centre should be done to make it possible to pass practically 4 and a half million citizens and that is impossible and that is why, and according to what we have, and we have 4 medical universities, 4 universities, we have Osijek, we have Split, we have Rijeka and Zagreb. Accordingly, we want to develop 4 large centres, and that is what will be one of our centres of excellence, which will focus practically on the centers that will be in the counties and I think that is absolutely the system that needs to be welcomed and further developed. Of course, the next item, i.e. the definition that is extremely significant, is the sustainability of the system, especially in the context of what we have. Thus, financial stabilisation and sustainability of the system. So within the existing financial means, to enable the system to be sustainable and to develop. Many of these moments that are criticizing say that the system is actually not good, that there are problems or I don't know what not. I will not talk from the point of view of the doctor, from the aspect of the profession, I will speak from another aspect, I will talk about one information where the world economic forum is assessing practically Croatia in different segments, assessing its competitiveness in different segments towards the European Union countries, in fact, has shown that Croatia is the most competitive towards the countries of the European Union in the segment of health, i.e. basic education, and that is actually the data that we absolutely have to be proud of and which is there, which accepts it, so the entire public. But our question is whether we really want to improve this system continuously, so we don't want to shut ourselves down for new technologies, new medicines, new methods. To make it possible, of course, we also need to change the way of funding within the system itself and we, like other countries, have to move to a system of change in funding, both primary health care and hospital health care systems, so we have already started with one project, a "pilot project" that has been revived, which therefore begins to live in 4 hospitals, by categorizing them to be one clinical hospital center, in this case Rijeka, one clinic in Dubrava and two hospitals in general, that is Zadar, or Pakrac. We want to introduce payment by diagnostic treatment groups. The financing system, for example, exists in Austria, Italy, Germany, one large part of France because France is therefore divided by its organisational structure, such as Canada or Australia. And such a system will not only allow for the visibility of who, which, how much it works, will actually enable us to compare directly with other countries, because we will practically have the same denominator, so the same system. Within this item, therefore, a significant segment is also the restructuring of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute as one national insurance house. And that's where we go practically the same way as, for example, the Slovenians started some year and a half ago, two years ago, just like other European countries did. This means that we want to separate the Croatian Health Insurance Institute from the Executive Authority's reach and become the right national insurance house. Therefore, those who provide services and those who receive services are creators and holders of practically one national insurance house policy. In that segment, another very important thing is the change in drug policy. Now, on June 1st, we also had a workshop, a round table, I don't know what to call it, anyway, which the Ministry of Health and Social Care was a sponsor and which was organized by the association of patients where they were actually with modernators who were practically people from our public media life, so there were top experts in the field of clinical pharmacology and drug policies. That round table or what we're going to call it is accompanied by excellent. And that's actually a clear comment. This morning there was a very high-quality show on Croatian Radio that actually once again gave a clear illustration of what we want to do in drug policy. The conclusion is next. Nothing that hasn't been done by other highly developed countries. Our goal is practically that of 34% of the share so-called. the same generic medicines as we now have in Croatia to increase that share. And why are we doing this? We do because we do not want to allow what has happened in the past, which is that new innovative drugs have been kept much more quality and much better and prevented them from entering the list of medicines. In 2003 there were 16 such medicines that were available everywhere in the Croatian environment and that Croatia did not. It's nonsens. We can't do that. We must not work towards our citizens because we are responsible for this. If you do not give an alternative medicine to children and allow patients from Croatia to flee to Slovenia, which was the case from 2003, it is unacceptable. And so it absolutely needs to be changed. And that's why we're changing that drug policy to allow the continued entry of new innovative drugs that clearly have proven advantages over the existing pharmacopoeia. What is also necessary to say is that this strategy in its great work, of course, and I say, is kind of crushed in these workshops and in contact with everyone, consistent to the greatest possible extent, both with the social partners, both with the patient associations and with the chambers. And I think at this point, I repeat again what we have from the beginning, we have quality, good material, and here I hope you will fully support it because I don't think we have any things in it that are not for the sake of the health system in Croatia and that the time has come for us to change things absolutely is. Change can't go, none of us can jump to the first floor, going up the stairs, but it has to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66626	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Turic, president of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66627	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 55th session of the Committee held on 5 June 2006 discussed the proposal for a national strategy for the development of health in 2006 to 2011 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the proposal for a national strategy as a home working body in accordance with its powers. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative and introduced the members of the board to differences in relation to the text of the strategy set out in the previous debate. During the broad debate, board members supported the need to set up a strategy or the need for reform of the existing health system. The strategy stressed two basic objectives, which are the reform of the health system and the reform of the health funding system. The strategy first and foremost provides a quality demonstration of the current state of health in the Republic of Croatia. It is true that the differences in measures to be taken in the implementation of the deadline strategy and operators are a presumption of a quality and successful implementation of the planned health policy. This will also achieve an important task of this strategy, which is to stop a negative trend in the financing of business and more effective patient health care. Most committee members agreed that it is necessary to limit the growth of health costs and to establish financial stability of the system. As health care is available in relation to other segments of society with significantly smaller resources, it is necessary to increase the responsibility of those who manage these funds, the financial responsibility of the owner of health institutions for negative business. The trend in constant growth of expenditure on medicinal products is particularly pronounced and this represents one of the major problems in rationalisation and control of consumption. In this respect, the identification of two drug lists as well as an existing list of expensive medicines will ensure timely, permanent and rational availability of the medicinal product and the treatment of effective, quality and safe medicinal products. The representatives of the union present have met the board members that a principle of agreement has been reached between the proposings and representatives of the unions on the reference of the strategy in the follow-up procedure. However, no consensus has been reached on some issues. As pointed out, some trade unions are against the establishment of two drug lists and are committed to preserving acquired rights through the retention of the scope of rights in supplementary insurance. They also dispute the reduction in the share of public spending on health at the expense of private consumption. They also oppose the correction of the existing income censorship on all types of income and the introduction of an asset censorship already carried out by welfare centres. At the end of the debate, most Committee members pointed out that the implementation of the objectives of the strategy will improve the health system and create conditions for providing quality, professional medical care while maintaining the social level of health care and health insurance. After an extensive debate, the Committee members decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, with two votes, for the adoption of the National Health Development Strategy 2006-2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66628	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66629	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights, I will present the position of the HSP expert team for the area of health in relation to the proposed National Health Development Strategy for 2006-2011. Let us start with the first assessment of the state of health but the most appropriate assessment of the situation, which is the assessment of Croatian citizens, I will present to you the results of public research and the views of Croatian citizens regarding the state of health. Over 50% of Croatian citizens are dissatisfied with the current health system in Croatia. All, that the growing health situation is considered by more than 43% of Croatian citizens. So this applies to the period of both the former authorities and the current authorities. The situation is equally bad for 38% of Croatian citizens. More than 50% of Croatian citizens think this, health reform, is moving in this health care reform just for money. So it is to save rather than improve quality for Croatian citizens. And people are willing to pay more to get the quality that new medicines mean to them, new treatments. Reduce waiting for diagnostic tests and that hospitals are better equipped. The only quality in the health system is healthcare professionals. Health reform has taken place through drug reform only, but in this way, that these people are essential elements in the reform, which are the availability of medicines and new treatments that are being kicked out of the health insurance system, which reduces availability and does not improve at all. Non-transparently defined and not in line with an efficient health system, and in the world with requirements regarding the harmonisation of Croatia's legislation with Croatia's accession processes within the European Union. It is realistic to expect that the proposal for a strategy and a package to follow it, if based on the strategy, will cause even greater dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens, inadequate savings and deepen the debt of the health system and there will be a decline in the existing quality and availability of medicines and new therapies. Therefore, everything here is being done according to the IMF dictatorship and debt overturning, costing to the poorest layers in Croatia. Recently, we have pointed out on several occasions that over the last few years, countless national programmes, plans, strategies and similar political-propaganda acts have been brought in in Croatia. For many of them, there was no need or purpose, and as it is generally known, they did not get any results. In this hyperinflation of software acts such as this one is difficult to distinguish important from what is important becomes irrelevant and does not matter. The lesson of this bass is an ever-increasing situation and the growing rights of Croatian citizens. The National Strategy for Health Development has also been proposed before us. Health reform is really necessary, but based on the real strategy and professional plans, which would ultimately result in a better position for Croatian citizens. Instead, this strategy and a series of laws that will follow it will not contribute to this objective. The strategy contains indeed good data and indicators, but the same in many things remains unknown and ultimately its purpose is questionable. A comprehensive health strategy lacks a number of data and statistics, and they could take hundreds of pages for the field of health so that a metric attitude could eventually be taken from these data. Instead, we get really interesting information that is partial, but which shows that the Republic of Croatia is at the top of the world standard of health in certain areas while in some other areas we are among the worst or worst. This can be compared to a student who only gets fives and units at school. What does that tell us? Obviously there is potential, but there is no systematic approach to problems. This is where the strategy is really needed, and here it must be mentioned immediately that health is an individual category of each individual and that it is not possible to place an emphasis on man to draw conclusions based on general statistical indicators. What is obvious from this National Strategy, i.e. that a large part of its content is not some system plans but is about numerous depictions of the existing situation. It shows that stress is one of the most important factors in the major increase in disease. So the most difficult categories in Croatia. Stress present in Croatian society comes to great frustration because Croatian citizens are at the level of knowledge, and according to this and the desire and need, and at a high level, unlike the opportunities given at such a low level. Finally, the problem is seen as a health issue although this situation in society should be addressed by many other economic, social and social measures that would make each individual’s life far more appropriate. In order for something to be called strategy and reform of the system, content would have to be a new concept of the system, and in no way repairing the existing. Therefore, the name National Strategy has been missed. This could primarily be a report, an analysis of the health situation with a proposal for measures, and cannot be called a national strategy, let alone a reform. About the fact that the health care system is in crisis we don't need a government study. That is what Croatian citizens are aware of, and I have also provided information regarding the survey of public opinion by Croatian citizens in the field of health care. But instead of clear and transparent reforms we got, we only got a document wrapped in cellophane, but impenetrable. There is no need to be too much of a knower to see how the financial problem is intended to be transferred to Croatian citizens, and the system cosmetically adapts mainly to the basis of experience in such a way that those who have abolished and introduced it in recent years now introduce and abolish it by calling it good reform. About who was responsible for the crisis system, and only the ministers of the two parties changed their words. I guess the bad organization, the dubious, the debts and the political hospitals and everything else came in itself, and that's not the case, without knowing that no one was responsible for that condition, so the surgery worked, and the patient died. For example, those who have temporarily abolished their health homes now see the problem. Those who introduced the chieftain now claim it's not good. Those who have abolished the specialisation of general medicine are now reintroducing it as a major novelty. Those who have abolished the amortisation in health and have taken over the purchase now announce an untransparent return of the same, but only for hospitals the county and cities will continue to govern the state or anything else. Those who have introduced private practice, and now they're cutting her off from hospitals and I'm not talking about it anymore. Final cosmetics, non-transparent, incompetent and irresponsiblely transferred to citizens, patients. So everything goes to the burden of the poorest who most need a system-based health system that will enable the treatment and provision of services that Croatian citizens deserve. Therefore, the poor health situation is often justified as a consequence of the Homeland War, but nowhere is it said to be the result of poor conversion and privatisation. Carelessness for the health of our own population is evident from the fact that out of all areas of this strategy we get essentially as the last. In line with European standards, which is visible from the text on page 8 of the strategy and the European Union, man is not seen as a human, but solely as a consumer, and therefore one should be commended for the text in which one of the authors stressed that there is not one of the 35 chapters of the acquis of the European Union, but that healthcare is a kind of byproduct, waste from other areas. This National Strategy, regardless of the good conclusion, lists only the principles of the Republic of Croatia's obligations towards the European Union, and through the whole of the National Strategy there is no mention of the numerous acts of international institutions that the Republic of Croatia has adopted and which are indeed aimed at the welfare of human beings and their health. These are, for example, a number of acts by the Council of Europe, the International Labour Organisation of the United Nations, but it seems that future health reform does not create such but positively undertaken obligations, but rather the position of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank which force us to cut health costs to make them more secure that we will be able to repay them regularly. It's about funding. The current way of financing health insurance is that 80% of the costs are financed by contributions to compulsory health insurance and are also financed from the budget. All the collected money is stored in a treasury managed by the minister, the Government, in cooperation with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which is a state and government institution, and in some ways, inadequate financial manipulation is possible in that dog is waving tails or tails with a dog. Payments introduced in 2005 under the TP treatment procedure proved to be inappropriate. The investment in health care is centralized through the Ministry and Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which condition the non-transparentity of the proposed investments and the inability to significantly influence regional structures in the way of funding. A great difficulty has also led to the elimination of depreciation, as it has led to the situation of eating its own substance in such a way, and it is also impossible to make available the funds for investment maintenance of space and equipment. All of this under the authority of the Minister, Government, Croatian Institute or State Treasury. Cities and counties are being supported for some of their projects, but again, the central in Zagreb participates quite untransparently. The decentralisation of some non-money parts in the counties and cities has led to the inability for poor regions to settle obligations towards health institutions because they have no developed economy, so the health institutions in this system are constantly at risk, and the City of Zagreb as the richest and most developed with the largest budget is privileged because it has only one city hospital. The principle of solidarity should also be established for the sake of the balanced development of particularly poor regions, which were mostly killed most in the Homeland War, with no economy left. Before the development strategy is considered at all, it is also necessary to do the categorization and accreditation procedures of hospitals, because according to today's system 49% of all specialists... the service is provided in tertiary protection facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, clinical hospitals. As regards the conceptual framework of this strategy, the finding of a specialist consular activity is in a very difficult situation because the closure of the health homes and confusion of the organisation so-called. hospital polyclinics, which are actually depadances for the work of hospital doctors, for external patients, and for the expansion of so-called ‘expansion’. clinical hospitals. All that has been said have been done by the current health ministers especially from the portfolio of the former and current authorities, and now they want to return it to such a normal state with doctors who have been declared heretics and enemies against it. As part of this, measures are also set to be made and they look like hot paroles. The changes proposed in the primary health care section were the direct consequence of the rule of former healthcare professionals because they abolished the family doctor and their specialization, abolished their health homes, raised the number of insurance companies per doctor in primary health care, banned the use of diagnostic instruments and laboratory examinations, etc. Once again, health care is trying to squeeze into social care that is now distributed across various ministries, and it should actually be in one place and separate it from health money, thus showing ignorance because gereontology is classified as social, which is actually the science of third-aged diseases. So, a clean health profession. It is certainly necessary to work on the issue of abolishing political hospitals and to organise towards territorial, according to the standards of territorial professional form of providing health services. Therefore, this whole project is all over us at the HSP Club and by the assessment of the expert team shoots into blanks that will not bring anything better to Croatian citizens. It will not improve what Croatian citizens expect. This means that they have available healthcare, that they will not, for long, long years and years, wait for a variety of medical and specialist examinations, and so while performing a medical examination takes up to 6 months and up to one year, respectively. Afterwards, when the specialist medical examination is carried out, the Croatian patient goes back to the beginning, the Croatian citizen is spinning in circles, and there is no way to finally establish a diagnosis and to use appropriate therapy in terms of treatment. So what is the situation in society is the situation in health care. Therefore, we do not accept something that is contrary to the interests of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66630	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66631	Thank you very much. The Honorable Mr. Representative has made several incorrect allegations. I'll be able to count maybe three. First, he incorrectly presented the state of the survey on the opinion of the health population. It is true that when you ask about health care, then the data turns out that he said that more than 50% is dissatisfied with health care, that 50% and more think that reform is for money, etc. But when we look at polls that compare opinions on health care and other problems in the country, then the situation is very different. The CRO barometer published a poll in January 2006 on what you consider the biggest problem in the country. First of all, unemployment. This was said by 78% of respondents, in the second bribe and corruption 22, third pension 17%, crime and theft 14%, fifth standard 12%, sixth economic situation 11%, seventh small salary 10%, eighth economy 10%, and ninth place health at 9.7%. So it throws a slightly different picture and justifies the World Health Organization that throws us among 35 of the 192 countries in the world by the organisation of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66632	Thank you. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66633	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Kovacevic listed a lot, so it turns out there's nothing wrong with health care. It's just not true. He said that the whole strategy was shot into blank and actually one cosmetic. If he listened well to the applicant’s presentation, it is quite the opposite of saying that there are good things in health and that some things need to be fixed. In health care, it's inadmissible to go from zero. As a colleague said, it should all be new, not repairing the old one. However, here is the direction to go and to fix the system in the right way, without major earthquakes in society. And if that were the case, you'd just have to look at some of this information that's listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66634	Third, honourable representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66635	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Kovacevic said, among other things, that health and health are only an individual category, which is absolutely incorrect. And he also pointed out that actually statistics aren't important and that she's, I don't know, clouding the picture, etc. I would say that without statistics and without statistical data and adopting the qualifications that he has put out here is actually the most ordinary, ordinary politics. This is counterpart Kovacevic's health development strategy, not HDZ's, that it's just by mistake criticising it. I invite you to welcome your expert team and say that we expect concrete proposals, because they have the opportunity to participate in the development of a strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66636	And the fourth correction, the esteemed representative, Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66637	It is incorrect for a colleague to often justify the consequences of the war for a bad situation. In fact, this is not true, but only the fact is found, the fact remains that the Republic of Croatia is the only country in the region for which there is data on health indicators, before, during and after the war. And there are also indicators of effects on mortality. And if you had read the strategy then you would have seen in this chapter on Homeland War, a potentially positive experience that is being drawn up in the creation of this strategy, which comes from the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66638	For the HSS club, the respected representative of Miroslav Cacia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66639	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS representative club, together with its expert council, carefully read the proposed national health development strategy in 2006-2011. And we claim that a little bit is embedded in this text. Although we had said a lot in the previous debate, I thought that we had agreed on many things. So this proposal also opens new concerns in its application through the proposed amendments and addition of laws that were in the previous debate, or we may get some new solutions. Namely, it is nice to read the findings in the introduction, historical gains that bind the current state of health, goals and assumptions. However, the most important part is the conceptual framework of the strategy. For me as a man who has been in health care for many years, and also for people from the HSS club and for those many whom we have contacted these days, it has not failed to show the current state of health in the way, therefore, in the way of health financing, the finding that according to the World Bank's proposals private spending in the Republic of Croatia is less than 1%. While in the European Union it is on average 7%. Yeah, you don't say here what that percentage is taken from, whether of total consumption or of gross social product. However, if this finding is correct and if it is put into the strategy now in this last proposal of 31 May then it is not surprising all that remains on what is given the accent in this strategy, and it is nevertheless a transfer of public spending to private and, but I will say something about it later. Now a comment on the text offered. When we talk about employees' salaries on page 22, we claim to be paid in accordance with the collective agreement, but now in this text of May 31st, the government finds that in some hospitals in the cost structure, the most cost for employees is 80%. Why are we afraid of that fact? So she's just reflecting on this state of health today, especially hospitals that are running hospital accounts, when they're running hospital accounts over employees' heads with their existence, and they're questioning hospital supplies to medicines, medical supplies, because who's going to be the headmaster, who's going to dare now sign an order without a cover, and so these days they're called ignorants, even with the conclusion that they're being given hospitals to management, and at home their wives are running finances. If so, the question arises as to what these people are doing today who do not hesitate and make such statements at the expense of people who fight for everyday life by leading their hospitals. What were they doing in human education for years? So not all directors could finish management in America, as some of us often mentioned as the main creators of this health policy. I have to say they ran a hospital for at least a year, I don't think they'd perform like this. But let's move on. On page 26 of the previous text, it states that the breakdown of the status of the health care system should state that the availability of health care is in proportion to the degree of development of the health care system, which is assessed as appropriate for Croatian economic opportunities, and there is no question of whether it stands or not in the new text. In the 2006-2011 health development strategy's objectives, the time-accessibility section should not be allowed to wait for appropriate healthcare for more than 20 minutes in the entire territory of Croatia. We think it's just an empty wish, because it requires far greater teamwork for medical teams that we claim throughout the text that we don't have enough medical personnel, especially in emergency medical care, and normally requires one far-reaching equipment such as vehicles, space, etc. As regards economic accessibility in this text, it is not offered to participate insurance in part of its healthcare in the form of supplementary health insurance but is therefore given up, but the private sector of truth in the fund system, HZZ, which is very indicative because the limits of hospitals and chieftains in primary health care do not allow more work even though they are the same willing to do and can provide far more services. The waiting lists are the result of deficit financing, not because of inability to work, and their transparency will not bring any shift without activation or private sector through voluntary health insurance, i.e. I repeat the increase in hospital restrictions, i.e. chieftains in the JHA. In the part that speaks of mutuality and solidarity, we are not clear on what this was meant to say and what this was about. On page 40 where integrated health care is discussed, an unwarranted expansion of the so-called “expansion” is observed. clinical hospitals sometimes of questionable quality and irregular investment in these hospitals compared to general. And it is further observed that there has been a world paradox that has more acute beds in territorial care than at secondary level. So in general hospitals. That's true, but why today's hospital funding system has to go that way. Why do you have to wait for the next years, the ninth and tenth ones are mentioned, and still citizens are placed in the category of first and second order, I mean those who don't live in the centres of the clinic. In the section where primary health care is mentioned in point 7. why now encourage the creation of group practice rather than more force. Well, I believe it's not exactly the same. And the former point 11 has been completely deleted, probably under pressure or union or all of what was said for this speaker in the Croatian Parliament, but we will see in what form privatisation will appear in the new text of the next laws proposed. On page 45, in point 7, the text is changed from "change" to "defining" the relationship between the home health and the tenant. Aren't relations defined? And if they're not, then they should be redefined because of the existing state and functioning. And on page 47, when it comes to secondary health care and the possibility of abolishing certain hospitals, it was written in the previous text of the Zagreb case, and now the hospital in Blato is now being added, so it is preserved, something is still unclear. Under the measures of the holder and the time limits, the same section in point 2 is now talking about the adoption of standards and standards for credit and categorisation. Term 1.9.8. Which confirms that there is no activity now, there is no activity related to it because it also finds point 7 which speaks of education and staff employment in accordance with these famous normatives and standards which will address the underlines, the lack of health personnel and general staff in health care. Something about a new basic health funding policy. All that is declared is to reduce public spending at the expense of private although even now private consumption participates in total revenues over 20%. So does it take us all these years to carry out accreditations, categorization of hospitals, to ensure communication in primary healthcare with the pre-hospital segment, including telemedicine in 2008, is proposed, to provide emergency equipment and equipment, to provide emergency single departments in clinical general hospitals in 2009, etc. etc. We know that nothing can be done without money, but health institutions get back, they don't get back VAT in the system, and I'm sure they get it according to the indicators, and according to the calculations, cca 800 million kuna would go into the Health Fund, and at the same time we know that health institutions don't work on the principle of profit. The entry into the Treasury of money from the contract to provide health services based on reciprocity with foreigners lost more than 100 to 150 million kuna in the health care system. Liberation from participation yes, but only based on diagnosis, and by status let the one who releases them pay. We're for absolute prevention without restrictions, for primary health care without financial burdens on patients, insurance, so we're against administrative fees. And finally, by just collecting these amounts of money that I said we'd come up with some two to two and a half billion kunas that today are insufficient for, I'm not going to say normal, but for the functioning of the entire health system. However, we also offer the solution that we have said these days, which is what is here at our fingertips. So let's, gentlemen, activate the Fisheries and Ecological Belt Act and take from our neighbors 350 cca million euros that they annually exempt from our sea, so they do. There are, therefore, solutions, need courage. And our health care will be tailored to their citizens. Unfortunately, we will not be able to accept this proposal because spending in the most part is still on the back of citizens who are still extremely difficult to live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66640	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66641	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a colleague who said a little bit of it was embedded in this text. I hope that quality is not measured with the amount of embedded text, it is built in exactly as it should, but much more than it was embedded in the coalition government strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66642	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66643	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66644	Third correction, respected representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66645	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that in order to be a good health manager, you'd have to finish some American school. And so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm worried about one thing here. That when some executives in this situation, and we've heard what she's like and we all know, in the last two years, 700 employees have received 100 new ones, and these are mostly unqualified people, then I'm worried about it. Of course it's not everywhere, but let's just say, this case at the bellowar hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66646	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovačević, the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66647	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleagues involved in the insurance of the funds necessary for healthcare. He said, let's activate the ZERP or the eco-fishing belt. I say, let's activate the economic belt and we'll get a far bigger amount of money. Let's solve the gray economy and then we'll get $11 billion to 15 billion a year, and don't steal our idea that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66648	HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66649	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a 5-year health development strategy that the HDZ representative club will support for the following reasons. First of all, it is a balanced approach that does not present any new social burden on our users and that is what needs to be welcomed at this time. That access to the Strategy is balanced is shown in the very first part of the assessment of the state of health. Health assessments are based on international but also on domestic polls and analysts and these assessments show a much better situation than what is politicised in most of our public debates. I will only mention the World Health Care that says that Croatian health care is closer to the countries of the European Union than countries with the same gross national income that Croatia has. The World Bank's position, which says that the organisation of health care is based, an analysis based on health indicators better in Croatia than in all countries of the region and close to the European Union. And finally, the greatest recognition that came from the World Health Service, which all the member states, 192 in the world, lined up in classes. The first class is best, there are 35 countries and among them is Croatia, by organisation and efficiency of the health system. She's in that first group, so-called. Group A with Sweden, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Ireland. And please tell me another activity in Croatia among the first 35 countries in the world in society with countries that have 2 to 3 times the gross national income. We thank this, above all, our healthcare professionals and any unwarranted criticism on their account is absolutely unwarranted. Of course, we also thank the organization because without it, health care professionals could not show their knowledge and ability. And the domestic indicators that actually have, I'd say, a remarkable positive trend. So I would just say that the life expectancy is the first time above the average of Europe. I am not talking to the European Union, but to Europe, and not even for a year. And we were almost two-and-a-half years back. I'd say in the last 10 years, we've cut the infant mortality rate from 7.4 to 3.5. Cut the perinatal mortality rate from 10.3 to 5, halve the mortality of some diseases, not all, and unfortunately increased the mortality and improvement of tumours, which is certainly due to the years of social crisis, as a consequence of war aggression on Croatia. In this direction, the Strategy is also going in a good direction because the focus is throwing right at the early diagnosis of the tumor and I believe that in 2.3 years we will have good results because of this strategy. And all I can remind you is that we did a pilot project in 2004 and how the minister, 12 thousand healthy, over 50 years of age, called for checks. They had a catastrophic result, as many as 43% of pathological findings. So the strategy in this direction shows a promising result and a reduction in the number of malignancies. In the second part of the strategy are recorded problems. These problems have been recorded very objectively and the most important ones have been highlighted. I'll mention a few. It's mostly medicine policy. Forming a list of As in which they are mostly generic, but also original drugs where there are no generic drugs is something that we are very late in and we are lagging behind even though it has a number of criticisms especially from some social partners. There will be no one to lose anything because there is no guarantee of what no country of Europe has, and that is a completely free list A. That doesn't have a single country. Everyone and that list of A's cheapest drugs of all parallels also include participations, with us it will be free of charge. That's one advantage. Second, there is infrastructure in the control of these drugs from those imported to domestically manufactured, which is equal control of all those original drugs. Third all world experts, and today we have heard our experts at 8 o'clock on the Radio Zagreb show dedicated to this problem agree that the generic is as effective as the original medicine if constant control is carried out which we have been established for years. That's what the high official finally said... in America, who said the most expensive in drugs isn't always the best. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, all the countries that introduced this, I will only mention Sweden, Slovakia, Germany, Ireland. They showed a 10% savings savings in the first year without a negative impact on the nation's health. So I think it's a very positive step in the strategy. Secondly, the professional competence of primary healthcare has been put first because the number of instructions from primary to specialist increases by 30% in recent years and there really needs to be a major step forward, I believe that this strategy will achieve it in its objectives. It is difficult in the general medicine of primary health care to monitor the terrible dynamics of the progress of top medicine without not only basic specialization, which is a condition of both the European Union but of everyday training, and there must be a basis for the annual obligation of each doctor to spend in a specialist clinic for a particular time, especially in those professions where it writes, the most instructions are written. The next feature, which is well recorded, is the imbalance of funding and the need to disbursement the social sector. So, the need for discharging the state budget. The current burden on the state budget certainly burdens the indirect economy and we have reached that limit where the new, additional burden on the state budget would negatively affect the economy. The last government made a useful step because it reduced contributions to health care, but it did not determine alternative sources. It is necessary to find a way to reduce the allocations from the state budget, but alternative revenues must be found because otherwise revenues will fall and lead to financial crises. In the uneven schedule of hospitals, as well as other levels of healthcare from primary to specialist-consulary is also said in quality and is aimed at equating this. I must point out that this is really the right time because we are just finishing a huge 10 billion kuna investment in a war-torn hospital. So, we've restored all hospitals except for more Vukovar, and it's started, it's just doing initial work, and when it's done, Vukovar really has to focus its resources on modernising the existing ones, but also building objects where there aren't now. So we can say that we are nearing the end of a huge investment in a war-torn hospital and their restoration worth more than 10 billion kuna. What is well recorded are the recent failures of the organisation of health care, particularly the low health priority in negotiations with the European Union. Unfortunately, in negotiations with the European Union, we have lost a lot in public health. I would just mention that from the health care system it was thrown out and moved to other resors and gave negative consequences. First of all, work protection. We're going to fix this with a new package of laws and this strategy. Then, dangerous chemicals, controlling them, moving them to the economy. Just to remind you of the recent news that the fabrics have been uncontrollable for years, that they contain... heavy metals which are carcinogenic,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In no country where it is intended to protect the health of the people, this health protection is not transferred to the economic sector because it is as if handcuffs were given to guard chickens. The economy is interested in profit, not health protection. That is why this is now being transferred to the new Open Chemicals Act and transferred to the health ministry's jurisdiction. The same applies to ionising radiation that has come out of the Ministry of Health in part of nuclear security, now it's returned, about the safety of the diet, not to speak. It is certain that agriculture as a sector has its share, but it is too interested in import and processing as cheaply as possible, so we have also synchronised the entire control and coordination of the Ministry of Health in a special way. Environmental protection has also come out of the health system, especially air, water, noise levels etc., this is also the existing reorganisation of the system we return to the public health system where there are experts, infrastructures and institutions dealing with this, primarily public health services, state and county. What may be less highlighted in the strategy is the change in the way hospitals are managed, and it will probably take years and years to discuss it. In fact, the existing way of managing which is decentralised and the funding that is centralized does not produce good results. Decentralisation of investment funds has also yielded poor results. These are those decentralised funds that are given to counties and counties themselves obtaining equipment which is good, but there is no categorization of hospitals compared to equipment which is bad, so I'm going to now mention an epidemic that has just begun and is ongoing. It's an epidemic of buying very expensive and diagnostic devices at the level of the county hospital where such a device does not belong. First because she doesn't need it for diagnostic reasons. Secondly, because there are no experts who can use even 10% of such a device and third because it spends huge amounts of money not only in its acquisition but in its exploitation. They're multilayer CT devices. After an imaginary affair to curb the purchase of cheap devices, it is now an honor to buy these expensive ones. A comparison. The Hungarian state with a higher population has 4 multi-layer CT devices. Croatia is currently 21 and is still under way to get a new 5. Each of them costs a few million kunas thrown away for nothing more than necessary, and in exploitation it is three to four times more expensive than a cheap device needed by a general hospital. So an urgent strategy needs to be adopted and I know that the ministry is working on it, but under pressure some actions are probably a little slowed down. What should further be said is that the ratio of contributions and costs, that difference is huge and it is growing every day. The strategy has touched the problem of balancing income and expenditure at a long-term level, of course, because it is only possible because of social sensitivity, and it will take years to bring the views both of the various political parties and the social partners together, because eventually we will have to reach a consensus on the well-being of our insurance companies and for the purpose of the survival of the entire health system. The observations of some social partners that, on this path, the even burden of all participants in the system should not go to an asset price, that it should not go to the assessment of the income of the family but only the individual is not naturally justified because all the countries of the European Union as well as the wider ones included both income and income censorship not only of the individual but also of the family for the purpose of achieving social justice because it is unwarranted for the poorest member of the family to free the whole family from participation. This happens, for example, in the tycoon family are all free from participation. It's absolutely social and political inadmissible. And in the end, all praises, to say a few and perhaps small grudges. With all the praise that the strategy has set the carriers and deadlines for the execution, I think it might be good to install one control mechanism inside, so one supervisory board that would monitor the dynamics and carry out all these actions, so probably the promoter will consider it. Some figures should be corrected, for example, that 43.4% of civilians died in the war. Unfortunately, no. 7 thousand 183 killed civilians at 13,000 967 is 51.4% and this is the first war in these areas where more civilians died than soldiers, so just for the sake of the truth, this data might be corrected. And in the end, you might need some language corrections. We have several sentences longer than a dozen pages, and I suggest that this is also fixed and that it is given language correction and, as a conclusion, I think that a strategy should be adopted for three main reasons, because it is socially sensitive, because it corrects key shortcomings in health management, key and not all because it is impossible. And finally, because this is the first step in the balance of income and expenditure in health, which is the basis of the survival of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66650	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66651	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague who presented some of the results of the survey on the position of Croatian citizens. I repeat again, the position of one... The poll, which says the following gives more than 51% of Croatian citizens is dissatisfaction with the state of health, 32% thinks it is neither good nor bad, only 19% are satisfied with the state of health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second survey on where Croatian health is going says that 43%, referring to the former and current government, believes the situation is getting worse and worse. 38% think the situation is as bad as it was and only 18% say there's some progress. Therefore, these are the metric research done in Croatia and this is the assessment of Croatian citizens. And about generic drugs there's also... A colleague corrected an incorrect assumption and said that these are medicines for the poor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66652	Second correction by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66653	It is incorrect that the previous government has threatened the financial stability of the health system in reducing its contribution. It is true that this measure reduces labour prices and increases the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and significantly increases the growth of the gross social product from which healthcare is further increased. And the health system is from these but from some other alternative sources it is provided with liquidity and sufficient funding. In addition to this, the fact that health care providers were then paid 120 days and are paid today at 365 days and some even up to 500 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66654	And the third correction by the honourable representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66655	Thank you very much. The inaccuracy of fellow Hebrang is that this strategy is socially sensitive. Well, first of all, it's an incorrect assumption that it's even a strategy. It's not a strategy. But let's take that as a fact that it should be a strategy she's not socially sensitive. Because look, the introduction of participation can't be a socially sensitive measure. Who's paying her? Sick. Who's among the sickest? Old, retired. Who in this country has the least money? Well, it's them. They're being peeled now. Six hundred thousand have a pension below the poverty line. Now they have to pay for the participation. It's not socially sensitive. The introduction of property censorship is equally not socially sensitive. Look, you're going to have a pensioner who has some kind of property, some inheritance, lives in an apartment, and now he's going to have to pay for that property censorship because he has property when he gets sick. What's left of him? To sell that apartment, to go to tenants to pay for his treatment. And you claim it's socially sensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66656	For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66657	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a national health strategy of the Republic of Croatia should be devoted to full professional, scientific and political attention. First of all, it is necessary to contextualize because it is very difficult to actually speak without one economic context and then try to actually fixate on health only and expect such a partial insight to provide answers to all these important issues of the future of our health. In our opinion, it is a key document of particular importance for the direction of health development in both the medium and the long term. For these very reasons, the HSLS Club demanded that the last debate be only a previous debate, not a first reading. In this case, we do not think that speed would be a virtue, and we really need to try to find optimal solutions about all these details. Thus, we thought to give the government, provide additional time to, together with the social partners through one, this is usually said by constructive dialogue to reach a consensus of all interested in this field of health and this is the area in the literal sense of the word for each individual citizen sooner or later. The question arises whether this consensus has been reached. If it's judged by the media, if we're reading and looking at today's replicas and then we see that it isn't. Listing the first 10 pages of this, this strategy seems to have changed only in the content items and on the front page of the strategy that was decorated with an interesting art solution. But while we are still listing at the end of this new National Health Development Strategy, which we have some innovations ahead of us, so on the final pages of the strategy, measures, holders, and deadlines on which certain activities are to be taken. And we think that it is commendable, because yet, even now that we have both carriers and deadlines, we really think that it is responsible people and responsible acts, and in some ways now we can monitor and see whether these deadlines will be respected on this side, the authors of the strategy whether they have made public commitments. The objective of this strategy should be, in addition to providing quality and available health care to all citizens and more adequate functioning of the health care system in the current financial conditions, and the financial conditions are not good in any case. So I say without this economic... It is hard to believe that even if there is no certain persuasion, we will hardly have the right solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's more than white. Hospitals are old, wasteful, dysfunctional. Many of them were built in the 19th century. We were taught that this Austro-Hungarian was not good and that it had exploited us, but it is very interesting that it was just then intensely, that not only were hospitals being built, but a whole series of other public institutions and it would not be bad if we tried to substitute this bad Austro-Hungarian region so that indeed, the construction of these hospitals was not only a story from the past but from today on. Hospitals are struggling with debt. Employees are concerned about their jobs, health patients, and debts are growing year after year. Last year, it was locked with two billion kunas in debt. Furthermore, the organisational problems in health care are enormous. It seems to us that certain changes in the work of hospitals should be made, and we think that it is high time that its financial management is dealt with by managers who will be able to optimise costs and manage, who are just taking care of something the council members can't take care of. We, it seems, are needlessly spending good or we are spending doctors who, of good and capable and prospective doctors, become actually incompetent directors. Here I am looking at the Ossetian case. It's about a very young young perspective doctor who's trying to convince himself and everyone else that he's a good financial expert, but unfortunately, with all his efforts and will, he can't become it overnight. And I think it would be really good, and we have this very experience that really, really, the managers, those who are something about finance know that we leave it to them, and that we leave it to the doctors what they really are, and that we release them from this, this financial burden. In... the sense in the opinion of the HSLS Club on hospitals should be seen as companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just say that the budget of the Clinical Hospital in Osijek is flat, if not higher than the city budget. So it's a bigger company than, say, local self-government itself. And to which the goal, in order to make their clients happy by providing them high-quality services, is to do something that is most important, which is human health, but also good that we do good, good management to make costs optimal. Spending resources in health care should be transparent as a certain kind of control because man is less rational when some things don't go out of his pocket and we need to change this perception. We don't pay for anything. It's kind of this thing of this one, of a habit, but that principle, the principle of solidarity that those who have really have to pay, and those who don't have to give them the same full protection is something that really belongs to even the fundamental values and our Constitution. Recently, we were still witnessing the possible collapse of general hospitals when the state had no real solution at the beginning of the problem, which of course refers to hospital debt towards wholesales, and then it transferred the ball to the counties, and yet it seems to me that it does not care enough that the revenues are, I could almost say with certainty not some but all the counties are smaller than the revenues of some general or clinical hospitals. And here I'm really saying I should, and yet you know colleague Hebrang was talking about this particular monster supplying these expensive appliances, and then that's exactly the fact that people who aren't capable of dealing with finances or anything else than they need. Then there's actually this one ugly story that's actually in the front row and only in the commissions, and not really what's supposed to be a hospital function. Furthermore, it is commendable of the minister that, as a prerequisite for better functioning of the health system, he suggested informing health care, but we consider that if we live in the 21st century, the information time that this is something that is in itself predominant rather than just what needs to be done right now, and to allow hospitals to be burdened by these unnecessary administrations. We need to ask a further question why in this Health Development Strategy, separate reforms of health care, public health financing are envisaged if, for example, public health care is an indivisible part of health care and in the legal... and in the implementation sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the document presented, we at the Club have the impression that authors are not fully familiar with the organisation, functioning and tasks of certain parts of the health system today as a whole. In some parts of this strategy, activities are needed for the future, including those that should only be improved and strengthened. This cites the need for the establishment of daily hospitals even though they already exist in certain activities. The proposed public health development measures are described in principle, with the reference to the need to develop a new strategy, a new public health strategy, and then a normal logically imposed and raised question as to what is the task of this document, whose proposal is the National Health Strategy between 2006 and 2011, if the public health strategy still needs to be developed gradually in some new document. We think that if this new public health strategy had already been proposed in this document. The issue of strengthening primary health care is particularly important, and its quality provision requires resolving its institutional status in order not to have three types of so-called. privatised healthcare. It is also in health care, precisely the most pronounced of citizens, and it often turns out that health services can only be paid by those who have money. I say exactly that, that's that, that's something that if we really are, we want to implement the values of our constitution, and then we have to bear in mind that this protection must be given to every citizen whether he has or not, and in particular we don't like these games in this way as we try, how in fact each one of us tries to declare himself poorer than he is, and how he systematically avoids paying these obligations, or to participate where, without, and then we wonder after that, how health is not working, and how he's squirming in debt. Therefore, the healthcare system should continue to be effective and strong, and healthcare is available to all and it is good to put a focus on primary health care, and whether it will get results will we yet see. The primary protection in the European Union countries solves about 80% of all health problems for citizens. To go towards achieving this standard in the strategy, the option of reducing the number of insurance by primary protection teams is proposed, which is good because doctors will be able to unload something, and patients should get better quality primary health care, so that if nothing else reduces the schedules and waiting in the infirmarys. In our opinion, however, it would be even more significant if this strategy could reduce the waiting list to certain operating procedures and specialist examinations in hospitals that have been waiting very often for months, and we hear some of them for years. To this end, an extension of the primary healthcare network is envisaged, i.e. the establishment of new primary healthcare teams. Again, the question is raised as to how to finance an increase in primary health care units when and because of the last restrictions, patients cannot function as they are expected. We agree that services in primary health care should also include promotional, preventive, intervention rehabilitation measures because it always says the people are smart and says better to prevent them than treat them. What grieves us is that there is no mention of surveillance of infectious diseases in the strategy, which is still in the European Parliament's statement in '98. the year declared a priority for public health work in Europe. Primary health care is shown incompletely because some functional parts, epidemiology services, school services and... medicine, addiction prevention services, patronage, emergency medical care, which are all activities at primary health care level no matter where they belong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On page 43, point 10 states that each area must have an organised unit with the appropriate staff. He's referring to public health experts. For those parts of compression medical care that primary healthcare doctors primarily focus on curatives do not fully cover. In this regard, at least we have a question at the club whether certain areas outside the county headquarters can be treated by some potentially isolated units of the County Public Health Units, or whether this must remain an unfavourable obligation of primary health care. This strategy foresees a rational use of medicines. I said last time at my parents' pharmacy that there were over 50 drugs and those poor people think they all, they're convinced they all need them. I don't think so, and now how to achieve that rational consumption. Whether this is possible through the introduction of a basic and supplemental list of medicines to provide insurance companies with free generic medicines, source medicines that are more expensive and need extra. This is certainly going towards reducing patient rights, because they will have to pay for certain types of medicines on the supplemental list, since some of the original medicines cannot be replaced with generic drugs, and the same quality and quality of action of generic drugs are raised. I mean, when I was talking about this private pharmacy, over 50 medications, it's all prescribed by doctors. It's nothing private, but it just seems to me the existence of one is now there's a lack of that informational literacy, that actually Doctor K knows what Doctor B is doing or I don't know Doctor C, etc. But obviously, it's all done more or less this way by heart. But I'm saying, despite this observation, we still have the impression that this is going towards rational drug consumption. As for the payment of the administrative fee, not only children up to 18 years of age, disabled persons with 80% damage but also the most vulnerable parts of the population, persons receiving social assistance, unemployed persons or pensioners who have a pension that is truly below this existential minimum, and here I am showing this principle of solidarity in action, that whoever has more and must pay, and that is how to show this fundamental civil solidarity. It should continue to consider that persons who are socially at risk have the right to health care, which would be alimony not from HZZO funds but from the special Social Care Fund at the ministry. Such a fund does not exist for now, but the need for means to ensure these rights is constantly growing. This strategy provides for categorisation, accreditation and accreditation of hospitals where attention will be paid to the profile of individual hospitals, the content of hospitals by activity, in the sense that the level of professional activities carried out on the one hand will have to be determined, and on the other hand the need for such activity will be taken into account. However, the question is raised here whether it will mean that certain specialised departments will be abolished which again goes towards a reduction of rights, possible reduction of patient rights, or the possibility that they will exercise their rights and, if so, the question is whether this strategy will result in the abolition of some hospitals. I think that needs to be said out loud and clear. Since time merely points out that one of the things to be said, one of the implementation activities in the area of health financing and additional cost rationalisation measures, transport is a measure which increases costs only by a distance greater than 40 km from the place of residence with some specific exceptions. I'm warning you one more time. We can't slave for these miles. There must be some other aspects to be taken care of. Let's just remember the news, the breaking news in Croatian news when we, too, were all declared guilty of being insensitive, of taking care of ourselves. That's why I'm saying you're only taking this rough mileage. Why 40 and no, I don't know 30 or 35. You always know her with those numbers is weird and not reliable. That is why we from the Club will closely monitor this debate and consider whether we will support this strategy with these criteria and shortcomings, so we expect that both amendments and... There is a certain improvement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66658	Thank you very much. At 11 o'clock and 5 minutes, it was time for an individual debate involving 29 MPs and representatives with 4 clubs. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66659	Thank you, Mr. President. I would say that Mr. Kramaric rightly pointed out the importance of infectious diseases and monitoring them. However, I would correct his inaccuracies that nowhere in the strategy is the problem, or that he is not concerned. So, especially because of AIDS and new, so-called new diseases such as bird flu, etc. here in the segment of public health organisations mentioned the problem and it is, in the context of public health, of course, planned and monitored and therefore should not be concerned that it has been left out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66660	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66661	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I closely followed today's presentation and the Minister of Health which was significantly different from the opening presentation when the previous debate on the proposed strategy was and I noticed that almost 80% of the time and content was devoted to the problems of the profession,... records, education, reviews, repetition of the procedure, repetition of the review, prevention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I got the impression that he was addressing the medical chamber, and I was also reading the assessment of the situation followed by the strategies, and I was wondering if the findings that were given were not due to the state of the profession, not only in the organisationally set and financing of health care, but in the profession itself. With his approach today, the minister confirmed to me that the issue is obviously both in the profession and that the proposal is in line with the social partners, which greets and that is good, the associations of professions and patients. Now the question is whether Parliament has something to discuss. For the last time in the previous debate, we also had the proposed texts of the laws that I expect to come to June certainly for discussion and adoption, because it is probably necessary to achieve or achieve the World Bank credit line. What the minister finally mentioned was the Croatian Health Insurance Institute as a national insurance provider, which I welcome and finally in this direction we started to think. I just want to believe that the minister agrees with me that the national insurance company is giving contracts to the insurance company, because the insurance policy is instead of a health card, so there's no confusion in having the only national insurance company who gives the insurance company nothing again. And the list of medicines, i.e. generic medicines as free, is increasing this share from 34 to more as one of the ways in which the financial part of health is recovered. The strategy contains three claims, and today in the debate it has been repeated several times. First, that strategy, because the form is in health care, will not create new costs for the population. Secondly, the strategy and reform will cut public health spending. And third, that strategy and reform will raise the quality of health services. So with less money from the state budget and the insurance fund without a new burden on the population, we will get a higher quality of service, reduced waiting lists, and even introduce preventive checks for certain categories of population. Until someone tells me the secret where this patent is protected, the Croatian People's Party club will not vote for this proposed strategy, because I simply cannot understand how it is possible to achieve it, and no one in Europe, not in all the health authorities' mandates in Croatia so far. Citizens, insurance companies expect every strategy, every reform, answers a few questions, three. How long will they wait to get a favor that will be better quality? They seek safety in the medical profession, find, diagnosis and therapy, so to make sure that what they are told and given is that. And how much will that service pay, whether through the insurance contribution, either through administrative fees or allowances? And is this system of extras and fees a fair model? Is there any exception to fairer, more unjust, someone paying more or less? There was also talk of strengthening and increasing preventive review activities to establish a health picture of the population in time. And the minister immediately says the holder of this will be the county public health services. Now, do the holders of these preventive checks in a professional way and only in a professional sense or in a financial sense? Is this an announcement that the County Public Health Institute will conduct these preventive checks on the basis of money from the county budgets? Or will these preventive checks be paid by employers for employees? Or is it going to be some new World Bank loan? The carrier, yes. No one said who would be the financiers. We bid with the equipment, we boast and throw away a little money and buy equipment we don't need. Some of them, for example. Hungarian neighbors, sometimes French, sometimes Germans, but then we never go all the way and we don't say why some country needs less CT devices. So colleagues and colleagues who serve as example in those countries don't have to go to the metropolis first to find out that six months will wait for a CT checkup, then come back after six months and wait all day for the checkup to be done and then wait two, three weeks for his post-up to come home. But there every morning by means of a sanity transport from hospitals that guides their patients to large-scale vehicle centers, these facilities, people drive away, carry out a checkup and return. Well, they don't need a CT at every hospital. We don't have a tracking system and we didn't borrow anything else. But now they'd criticise what to say some hospital buys a CT device. Because you can imagine it's a terrible waste of time. In 2001, public spending in Croatia was 8.2% of gross social product, private 2, a total of 10.2%. In 2004, public expenditure was 7.7, private 2, total 9.7. So we cut public health spending, we didn't increase private resources, we got sicker company with less money. And this strategy says we need to cut public health spending and increase expenditure privately. Apparently, citizens do not have or most citizens have nothing to increase, because there is no private finance and therefore giving up part of the costs in health care. Five years of data showing that. And for the next five years, that's how it's gonna be. And I repeat, in Croatia per capita in the last year, this year we will allocate 3 thousand 600 kuna, 500 euros or 613 dollars. Why was there no record of how much this is in neighbouring Hungary, Slovenia, Austria, Germany? How many people there stand out for public health? Strategy and makes the claim that in Croatia, I have 2,63 doctors per thousand, and Europe 3.6, so we are missing a thousand doctors. The strategy also gives information that the number of nurses in Croatia is 5.2 per thousand, and Europe is 11. So we're short 5.8 nurses per thousand residents, or when you turn it into 4 million 300 we're missing 4 thousand doctors and 24 thousand nurses. But the strategy says at the same time, and by 2011, we're going to reduce the number of patients in primary health from a thousand to a thousand to 500. In a pediatrician with a thousand to 800, the health care of women 6 thousand to 4000 and dental health care from 2,000 to two. Do you want to believe that in that time, we will educate 4000 doctors? To achieve these standards, we're going to spend so much specialization in pediatrics, gynecology and other missing profiles. It says in the strategy: With regard to space and equipment, it is necessary to comply with modern standards and normative Who invests in the space and equipment of hospital facilities in Croatia? Owners, county. So when they are invested in equipment and space, we need modern European standards and normative because this is not the expenditure of the state budget or the HZZO, it will be done by someone else, but at the same time we will cut public health expenditure. In measures, holders and deadlines on page 44, point 3 of the renewal of existing medical equipment, it is said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Care will do so with decentralised means and local self-government. I'm asking, it's really going to be local self-government, so municipalities and cities, or it's meant for regional self-government because it says a little further that the decentralisation system is going to go to county level. So if it's a mistake, correct it, Mr. Minister, or tell me if the really planned health care system is decentralisation to the level of municipalities and cities and introduce an obligation to the municipalities and cities to renew medical equipment. He's writing local self-government. It also states on page 42 of point 3 when it comes to primary health care, that all necessary equipment should be provided for this purpose to primary teams. The burden of who? Home of health. Who owns the home of health? County. Does this mean that primary health care equipment will go from county budgets? To reduce the waiting list, to reduce longer waiting lists, the need to introduce shifts in hospitals is stressed. What's the problem? Why don't we start the shift now? The owner of the hospital can't bring in the shift, he can't. Whoever is authorized and who dares to do so avoids being introduced immediately. We do have a situation that we have an extremely expensive equipment that works six hours a day, and that at the same time a large part of the hospital's expenditure is paying off duty and alertness instead of... working shifts. But look at the regulations, and you'll see who can introduce shift work. Furthermore, the following is foreseen. In the event that the patient cannot be executed, the requested service will have to be provided with the possibility to satisfy this service in a private system in those entities of that system which will have a contract with the Croatian Institute to carry out such activities in particular. The agreement between a doctor seeking a particular health care service for his patient and one who can give, will aim to provide for a specific order. Well, that's what we've got now. Most often when you give a manual for some more complicated review says like this, I'll give you a you know the manual, but you'll wait long, you have that card from a private clinic that does it, you'll be taken care of tomorrow, just say that I sent you. We're not opening Pandora's box of possibilities for illegal intertwination of public and private without any supervision or control. In primary health care, the goal is the strategy, that 80% of patients take care of themselves in primary because so far the practice of sending patients mass-send specialist and consular examinations should be the past. The minister says the pyramid has turned. That's right. Health care homes as health promoters have disappeared and disappeared, because the conditions for the lease are being liberalised even more and in the homes of health will remain management, accounting and cleaning and finance. We are not against the model of property censorship instead of income in principle, but we warn that this model does not suffer any privileged status category in advance, is not privileged and all by property censorship and others only, until we see the offer of criteria we cannot blindly believe that it will be just. I warn you that a rural household that has two or three hectares of land that for health and age reasons cannot process, can neither be leased nor sold, and according to the current model of property censorship carried out by the social community, that country is a limit to the exercise of rights, and it will be an obligation for it to fall out of censorship. Both women and an old woman or an old man living in an apartment of 100 squares for 80 years will also be in a situation that, in an asset sense, above the current social censorship, writes that the one already applied to social care centres will apply. Will life in the house of a daughter-in-law and a son or daughter-in-law be a element of falling out of the census system by the very fact that she lives in the same house? Will they have to prove they don't live in the same kitchen in the same wallet? So until these dilemmas are removed as far as property censorship is concerned, it would be a good idea not to discuss it further until one of the possible models is offered, especially as part of the debate in the laws in the first reading that we expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66662	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66663	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct the allegations that my colleague said that he welcomes that HZZO as an insurance company comes out practically becomes an autonomous house and expects the final office to issue contracts. That's impossible and we've already discussed it in this House. Because the Croatian Health Insurance Institute as a national insurance company is based on solidarity, so it guarantees the scope of law. Voluntary insurance companies can provide individual contracts because they provide only one segment of health care, and this ensures everything, therefore the identity card is a document that gives rights and makes it impossible to give a contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66664	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66665	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the first false allegation. That it is not possible with less money to achieve a better organization and to set an example of the country that did it. Ireland sevenfold, so 700% increased health care in comparison to Croatia. We have the same population of 2 billion euros, they 14 billion euros. The waiting lists are the same, polls are the same plus/minus 3 as in Croatia, etc. So with seven times less money, we can have a better organization than Ireland, and thank God we have. Second, it's critical that some hospital buys CT devices. No one ever criticized that. I criticized that Čakovec buys a multilayer CT, which buys Sisak, which he buys Zabok, which he doesn't need because he doesn't have an expert who can work with him, and that CT costs twice as much in purchase and five times as much in exploitation. So consult, colleague Lesar, experts before you present false information. And in the end, the hospital owner is not allowed to take shifts. Not that he can't, but he has to, and she's running it, and in our hospitals there's work in shifts, but not in enough departments, so it happens that one big clinic buys 5. CT instead of working with 2 CTs in 2 shifts, and that will be corrected by this Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66666	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66667	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Yeah, we don't need to fool ourselves, everyone said our health system was in serious trouble. Bankrupt probably not, but tomorrow he'll be in even bigger trouble. And the question of whether this strategy will solve it. Why? Why is that a question? Because it doesn't deal with consequences, it doesn't deal with causes, it deals only with the future, and it's out there with some imaginary, maybe in 2010 or 2011. He doesn't deal with the problem of how he solves these problems first. We all agree, everyone said health care is an expensive system, bulky, he's addicted to money as more or less everything in life. And in order to get the money straight or someone needs to take it or I don't know, there are some favors to be denied. However, if we are honest, local self-government needs to be reformed first. Why? Because I think there's a key to the sustainability of health here today. Our county, gentlemen, can't track the general hospital anymore. Yesterday we had these 280 million kunas of outstanding liabilities, mostly from general hospitals, owned by the county, although it is a real debt of these same general hospitals at this time of over 800 million kuna. It's owned by the county, I think it's the most common floscula. Here, let me show you according to the State Audit about which the Croatian County budgets were in 2004, or general hospital budgets, again according to the State Audit report, 2003. County of Istria, the budget of the county of 181 million kuna, general hospital 179.8 million kuna. In Varazdin, the budget of $114.5 million, their general hospital, 166 million. In Zadar the budget of the County 107 million kuna, their general hospital 202 million kuna. In Slavonski Brod budget 91.5 million kuna, their general hospital 195 million kuna, etc., etc. So, how can these districts take care of general hospitals with these budgets? How our counties, respected gentlemen of the MPs, can settle those costs. Here, for example, Varazdin, let Istria go. Their budget was 114 million kuna in 2004, and their general hospital stood there or I don't know, the state, 166 million kuna. The County of Istria is now or will settle these 40 million kunas, but what is worth to you is when this general hospital system will re-produce 20 million kunas of new dubiosis in a year. And then what? The ministry will relocate responsibility to the county and I don't know if it will hold up in 2007. Countys are founding blocks under the law. If so, they are in full responsibility, selecting the administrative councils of 5 members in such a way that the 3 counties, one from the working council plus 1 from the employees. They name the director, but do not affect the revenues determined by contracts with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. The Croatian Health Insurance Office resolves or better sentences the monthly limit, so they tell me, the General Hospital in Pula has 10% lower limit than the one in Varazdin, Slavonski Brod or, for example, in Zadar. And then the question arises is whether it's a policy towards some places. I say it is. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance determines your incomes, and the counties are responsible for expenditures. It's just something that's on the edge of my mind, hard to understand. That's where we're supposed to start in this strategy. Anything else, until this is resolved, is in some way throwing dust in the eyes of the Croatian public. Clinical hospital centres, we see, are excluded from the county's authority, so there are so many counties in a more privileged position as well as those in relation to some who, compared to some others, are part of the debt. I'm not going to talk about the budgets of the Primorje-Gorski County, 231 million kuna. Their KBC spends 461 million kunas, Osijek County 204 million kunas of KBC there 407 million kunas. And if that burden were normally transferred to them, they would really find themselves in an intolerable position. What's the burning problem? County, gentlemen, I can't worry about health care. I mean, they can, but then nice, gentlemen, give us back S.I.S. for health care. That's right, give us back our health care sizs. It's the only solution. So radical decentralisation is the solution. If not, then gentlemen, take general hospitals and welcome Mr. Hebrang's announcement to the county hospitals to return to the state. Here's what today's "Free Dalmatia", 6.6.2006. But in a debate outside the HDZ Club, we didn't hear a word about it. We talk all the time about Strategy. Now, what strategy, what strategy do we need if our system collapses already this year in 2006? So, first it needs to be cured, and then we think about what kind of healthcare we're going to have in the coming years, in 2010, who lives who lives who dies. The hospital's revenues at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute increased by 19.33% between 99 and 2005. In 6 years 19.33%, it's somewhere on the verge of inflation. Gross wages on the other hand grew in hospitals 34.17% and that's fine. Clearly, doctors have low wages, they need to be more stimulated, but what does that mean? Less for medicines, less for food, that dog I often mention from Velika Gorica who spends more on 58 kuna than the Croatian Institute spends on 3 meals in our hospitals. The hospital pension price increased by 2.75% in 99 to 2005. Well, it's not weird the quality of food, though, our principals are becoming real survival artists, and the health service has increased by only 5.25% in that period. And then it leads to 80 percent of hospitals being paid exclusively and the only money being paid. Now Mrs. Ozbolt has repeated the old idea of 1% so-called. contributes to solidarity. The IDS mentioned it in the last debate, but how? Yes, we are to increase the contribution by 1%, but with those 1% autonomously dispose of the counties strictly assigning that 1% to health care in its premises. Now, that would be some kind of ceasefire, instead of 15%, that ultimately is out 16%, and it wasn't supposed to be done in 2001, 2002 for that 1% because it's a billion kuna, but how do you figure that out? Through the differentiated rate of contributions so that everyone to the average salary would be 15%, those who have 4 thousand 500 to 6 thousand kuna, say 15.5%, from 6 thousand to 10 thousand would pay 16%, from 10 thousand to 15 thousand 16 and a half, they would pay 17%, etc. As much as you'd like to see it now, but the model would be just as fair. The system is collapsing and it's clear that we need to react today. Look at the health leave. 2003. 13.8 billion, 2004. 15.7 billion, 2005 billion kuna less, a billion kuna less in 2005 than in 2004. Is that normal? I argue that it is not normal as this announcement by the Minister of Science that for the bridge campus will give Croatia 360 million kuna credits, and we have on the other hand a complete system that is in ruins. However, to return to general hospitals. It's hard for the health care system to rest only on them, but without them, it can't be clear. Why? Clinical facilities have about 8000 600 beds, general hospitals 6 thousand 358 beds to be precise, but clinical facilities did 26 million 387 thousand services in 2003, general hospitals 32.2 million. County hospitals have 855 beds, and special hospitals 8000 512 beds and have performed 13.3 million services. These services were provided by 43,000 and 11 employees, of which 29 thousand are 300 health care and 13 thousand 711 non-health personnel. That's that ratio 1 to 2.2. Is it normal I don't know, but it seems a little illogical to me, but I know no one in this country can fire anyone with 290,000 people and don't let God think about it, but we need to increase the revenue. It's the key to at least one billion kuna a year or 100 million kuna a month. The revenues from the 2003 contributions were $13.2 billion, for the pensions of 14.8 million, and our system collapses at those two points. They seem to understand this in the IMF and no longer insist on health reform because their reform plus our inaction would probably beat the whole system to it. The exit might be this Slovenian model. For example. They introduced a 5 to 75% participation 10 years ago, so it turned out that few people could pay for it, and then they introduced additional health insurance. Now they've introduced 4 paying classes so that the poorest pay 4 times less insurance premiums than the richest, even though I and this notion of the richest, which would be based only on the salary, I keep the doubt because is it more like having a salary of ten thousand kuna, and you don't have an apartment or more have five thousand kunas to own an apartment? That's the question now, but be careful with that because 400,000 people in socialism have come to an apartment and they need to build a monument for those who built that apartment, some of them have got clear villas in Pantovchak, Opatija, Pula, etc., and some may have inherited something in the meantime, so they could really find themselves in a situation to get their hands on financially. They live in a 50-square apartment in Zagreb, and they may have inherited some of the property does not matter in Delnice or elsewhere in Gorski Kotar where you yourself know the value of these properties. Almost there's a very small one. In 2005, health care ended with a billion $900 million loss, 2006 will end with a loss of 2 billion and 500 million kuna. Another blow to the county and opportunities in Požega-Slavon County, there is a former mayor, there will be no more exceptions. Finally, the budget of his county to see was 59.6 million kuna or 8 million euros. So where's the problem? Maybe in the county leadership, but first of all, in the fact that you have 8 million euros. That's the point. How do you run one county with 8, 10, 12 million euros? No one can do that. So the solution for Croatian healthcare when general hospitals are composed of counties is radical decentralisation. In Europe, the decentralisation of waste is between 30% and 60%, in Croatia 0%. The Veledrogies tolerate debts up to 365 days. Clearly, they immediately include it in the price of the medicine and it is 30.40% more expensive immediately. Today, debts are 400 to 500 days. Every Croatian resident in the Health Fund pays 350 euros and spends around 450 on treatment and is producing increasing costs. It's clear if you lack 100 euros how you simply manage it. Another problem is the modern-day sale of Plive, which was absolutely a mistake. This is also evidenced by the fact that Pliva is searching at this time for 521 million kuna, a large 516 million kuna, and that the owner of the state may have controlled that damage until on the other hand, Belupo, who has 13% of the market, has sued no hospital. The founder is "Belupa" Podravka, and she is in the dominant state property. So decentralisation is kind of a simple solution, but before that or parallel to that, let's turn the board around, start a debate on the state of hospitals in general, the recovery of general hospitals and the financing of general hospitals, for example. 2 billion kunas and 800 million kunas were allocated to medicines in 2005, and 2 billion kuna and 400 million kuna are planned in 2006 and 10% consumption is rising. Who will simply control this system of gentlemen with such a single policy? And finally, let's face it, we don't have a solution to health care, we can all focus on the politics of that holding water until the masters leave, but the water has come to our throats and so let's be reasonable, introduce a bigger contribution, let's not politicise about the contribution. If this government doesn't do it, it'll have to be the future one, but then the problem won't be solved by 1, but by 2%. That's our proposal, clearly with the deferent rates. Have the state take the general hospitals or return our sysobs without getting rid of the IDS General Hospital can't vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66668	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable representative said the strategy deals with the imaginary future without dealing with the present which is not true. The strategy clearly addressed the previous period, the current situation and the future in the next five years, which is minimal for one strategy. They shall also indicate the operators of the activity and the time limit when it is due to be carried out. He also said that the county settles hospital costs which is not true. Hospitals are being financed on the basis of contracts with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. With all the respect for the difficulties in the business, however, it cannot be seen that some hospitals are constantly making huge losses such as Pula Hospital in 40 million kunas. And how to explain that the Jordanian Clinic is only from 0.40. Therefore, there is also clearly a lack of rationality in such a business.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66670	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66671	Thank you very much. With a number of good proposals given by a respected representative, I think it is necessary first to energize this inscription in Free Dalmatia. County hospitals are returning to the state. Neither did anyone say it, and especially not me. ... It says, "I'm denying it now." [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And look who wrote it, and then you don't have to deny it anymore. But I'm gonna deny it anyway, so I'm gonna say it. I only quoted on the board the World Health Organization's conclusion. Meeting 50 health ministers in 1996, I was honored to chair this meeting because I was elected. The conclusion is "Money centralize, manage to decentralize or balance." And that was all I said about it. Another false assumption is that the system is in financial collapse. I remind you of the final accounts. Total commitments 2003. 2 billion 654 million, 2004 2 billion 269 million or 400 million less. Therefore, the system is not collapsing, the system just needs the infusion it gets every year, and these will get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66672	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Cain said that this strategy, this document does not deal with the consequences or causes and that more health care money is needed. I think it's this, it's really... The syntagm used constantly in this House how someone needs money to stand elsewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And health care has as much as it does. Well, I guess it is expected that the growth of gross national product will solve the problem, so we will not single out 350 euros for healthcare but also as all other modern countries European 750 or 1,000 euros. Secondly, we need to spend the money we have inside of our health and this reform is talking about. On the other hand, SIZ's colleague Cain will get you. SIZ is a self-administrative community of interest when you get self-government and I hope it will not come to it as no interruption of concern, constitutional care of Croatia towards the Croats anywhere in the world and about... A university like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66674	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66675	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain made a claim that our Croatian health system is in ruins. However, according to the indicators presented on behalf of the HDZ Club by the esteemed colleague Hebrang, our health system and the influence he has on the Croatian people is among the best in Europe. And we simply, these are two contradictory things that exclude each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66676	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66677	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the context of the mentioned concept of self-management and everything that is mentioned in that concept, and if it is significantly dispersive at the beginning of my debate, I will conclude that most of the problems that Croatian health care has and which should be reportedly solved in this strategy stems from the poor management of this health care. In doing so, I do not think primarily of poor governance at micro level, directors and directors, but I think of a moment of catastrophic health administration that has significantly contributed to increasing the objective problems of Croatian health every day. There is another debate on the state of Croatian health in progress. We are also discussing where that health care will be directed in the future. By reading this strategy in the SDP, we conclude that this strategy is aimed at reducing solidarity or solidarity of health care funding. Such direction is not acceptable to us, and we are in principle clear and loudly rejecting it. The government is offering us a document that needs to trace the future position of health and patients and keeps silent about current problems both. Moreover, this document significantly manipulates data, and that is clear exclusively for political purposes. The SDP won't shut up and won't shut up about reducing the patient's rights. We won't keep our mouths shut about the growing indifference in health care. We won't even keep quiet about the patient continuing to pay more and getting the same or less. As much as we try to explain it by rationalising and objectifying patient consumption, we in the SDP will not agree with this strategic commitment. Why? Because it is unacceptable for us to make all problems of irrationality, system disorganization, uncontrolled and growing corruption even more accessible to the doctor and treatment compared to investment and procurement on the burden of public health money and a whole series of other pay problems primarily and only patients and directly from their pocket. At the same time, all others in the system will again, primarily, the health administration headed by the ministry and the government, continue to spend without priority and without any control. Why would we be silent today about the fact that the health system is creating a deficit of around 2 billion kuna a year and that policy makers who have been responsible for this whole time are doing nothing concrete than trying to transfer their sins to the previous government for the current state of affairs are doing nothing concrete except trying to transfer their sins to the previous government and costs to patients. "Let Pedro hang," some would say, while citizens, while you are unable to provide citizens with what they have in mind and belonging to them. Our rejection and criticism of the proposed strategy should not be interpreted as our rejection of the need for numerous changes and debate on what needs to be changed. We reject the proposed strategy because we cannot accept that solutions are required in a partial approach. That paper strategies require an alibi for a poor health administration that is not in a position to deal with existing legal solutions no matter what it is to do what is the priority of all priorities, edit the system. I'll do it again. The SDP cannot accept that the exit from the existing state of health is only in an additional reduction of citizens' rights and an increase in personal allowances. Everything else in the strategy you mention more or less decidated measures are which have long been defined and which you were unable to realize or simply did not want to do. For both of us, it's unacceptable and the fact that problems are being transferred to patients and the fact that you're not doing anything. He's late even with the papers. He is late for this strategy, and he is even more late for a quality improvement action in the existing frameworks. Given the time spent, it's been two and a half years of wandering and not doing what we've been shown below is what we need to change. The minister also spoke of consensus today. A consensus of social partners. Although he was rather restrained at this time, it still remains the impression that the social consensus was about to be manipulated. The social consensus has not fallen politically. Why? Because, despite the attempt to create an impression of public debate, the strategy is in fact totally non-transparent. Because it was intended to serve primarily for political purposes, which was a matter of social consensus to bring promotion to those who spoke of it, and in fact it was meant to serve to deceive the public. Abuse of alleged support should have occurred. And to falsify the public debate. In essence, the government sent a very clear message. It's not the ruling majority of concerns at the minimum social consensus. Consensus primarily of social partners. There's no concern about the state of health of the citizens and health care professionals. If it weren't for two and a half years, they'd at least be doing something that would relieve patients, not just burdening them. Compared to the previous debate and remarks, the key remarks we made from the SDP in the proposed strategy have no change. The key commitment of the government has not been changed, and this is an additional reduction of patients' rights and additional reach in their pockets. The SDP is, among other things, advocating additional sources of funding, but not from patient participations but from a different tax system, the growth of gross social product and other development expenditures stemming from or should result from overall economic development. The bad side of this strategy is also seen in the fact that it is not in line with some other measures primarily by the measures of this economic development that are being announced and which are being sworn by the government. Through this strategy, Croatian health care is further away from the principle of solidarity, from the principle that equal health care belongs to both those who have a lot and those who have little. This is what we join everyone who's this so-called. Health reform recognized as another citizen fraud and we completely reject it. It's not really a national strategy. There are no clearly defined objectives, clear measures, time scale, carriers and the most important criteria for monitoring and assessing the performance of the results. There is no clear vision of what kind of health system we want in the long run. What are the medium-term, long-term goals of health policy. It's still completely unclear where he wants to position himself publicly and in solidarity, and where so-called. Private health care. It is obvious that HDZ is responsible for public and private healthcare as they continue to overlap with each other and to continue, as so far, from public health money to private. The strategy itself contains a whole series of information that shows the state of health far more beautiful than it really is. When read by someone who may not know how our system works, and what are his problems, you might wonder what we really want to reform? Everything's so good. The nation's health indicators are so good that there can be no problem in the system. When a strategic document is brought, and no current problems are mentioned, it is clear that someone has an unclean conscience. He's hiding the problem. Strengthening social solidarity, which for us in the SDP is an extremely important section mentioned in the strategy itself in this package, remains at the level of only a paper promise. By contrast, the strategy is aimed only at reducing insurance rights and covering the health deficit at the expense of insurance and patients. The proposed strategic commitment to reduce the share of public money for healthcare directly endangers each of the 310 thousand employees, all pensioners and all citizens living on the poverty line. How are they going to start paying extra payments for the treatment tomorrow? Taxes of 10 kuna for each visit to a doctor, prescription or leaflet. With which money will pay for the medicines you take off the basic list and which you can only get if you pay for them. They will continue to go to the doctor and make sure that they are healthy. We've been listening to too much spending for two and a half years from the Ministry of Health and Government. How unnecessarily to see a doctor. And it seems from the government's messages that health problems only create irresponsible citizens. Now is really the time for the government to wonder how many citizens are actually getting for the money they're making out of their profits? And they stand out a lot. 15 billion and more of which are too little to return to them while spending much more on the system's irrationality, which is the responsibility of the state, not citizens. For us in the SDP, without any doubt, citizens get too little of their money. The health deficit is not primarily due to irresponsible citizens but primarily because the health system is not rationally regulated. The government has shown neither will nor ability, at least until now it has not actively done anything about it. It is invested without a plan, and existing health resources are used irrationally. There is no analysis of the return on investments, nor is the effectiveness of health institutions monitored. It is either accidental or deliberately too much of this in the healthcare system non-transparent from the staged procurement and new construction tenders, there are no criteria for drawing up a list of medicines to the waiting list and the right reasons why a search is waiting for months. Why is it that health care is increasingly isolated, and health care is becoming increasingly more accessible. That is why it happens that one government contracts the reconstruction of the hospital for 70 million, and the other government wants to pay 150 million by force for the same job. That's why competent directors are being replaced, and they're setting up incompetent, but cooperative. One of these benefits. I'm sure the patients don't. The health system is a place of very large inequalities for citizens, and the proposed strategy will increase inequality. In the SDP, we cannot accept a strategic commitment by which the right to health, quality of health care and quality of medicines will depend solely on the financial power of the individual. It's not reform for us, it's pure pressure, some kind of blackmail for the citizens and their health. That is why we are currently inadmissible and the Institute of Property Census, which will further increase this poverty or cause tightness from the use of healthcare. The introduction of two types of medicines – basic and complementary typical manipulation that is justified by the necessary savings. And if a patient needs a supplemental list medication despite medical justification, despite mandatory and supplementary insurance, they will have to pay it directly. The strategy aims to ensure that the price of the product is the only important factor in selecting the product. Let me get this straight. Over the past two years, healthcare has been made more accessible, waiting lists have been extended, corruption has increased, health sector liquidity has increased, payment deadlines have been extended for suppliers and payment deadlines for employers' refunds. Unlike the previous government, which, in the first two years of its term of office, released the economy by about two billion kuna and established the liquidity of the health system. In the first two years of the government's mandate, a tax has been imposed. The payment for medicines is being introduced, and health care is increasingly due every day to both the economy and the patients. Therefore, the SDP rejects the proposed strategy. We insist on measures that will regulate the system and preserve health rights for everyone, not just for those who will be able to pay their health out of their own pocket. We advocate solidarity, and we oppose changes in the systems that will reduce this solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66678	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative of Buchanan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66679	On several occasions, the esteemed representative stated that this strategy is a detachment from the principles of solidarity, a reduction of solidarity, a reduction of insurance rights and new social burdens as well as a fraud of citizens. This is not simple because on page 41, the principles on which a thorough reconstruction is thought to be carried out are said among other things. "insurance, rationalisation of funds, distribution according to fundamental principles of equality, solidarity, accessibility, rationality and quality." And secondly, it is said that the data in the strategy is listed as having to be reformed when everything is so good. There's data coming out, but those data aren't coming out of the sleeve. They're quotes from the world's dominant health organizations, the World Bank, and one of them says. From the point of view of health results, the system works well. The workforce is well-educated. Public health and health care programmes are well set up, and health results are better than in most countries with similar income levels. It's a World Bank report. The minister didn't shake it out of his sleeve, so he put it in the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66680	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a few things. counterpart Antunovic said this reform is aimed at reducing solidarity. That's not true. It's not about reducing solidarity, it's about trying to stop the abuse of solidarity. It's something else entirely. The other thing is, it's said that this government is doing nothing and that it's actually building up losses, that 2 billion a year is making losses. That's not true. We inherited consumption in hospitals 24%, and at the end of 2004 we reduced to 4%, and we keep that trend all the time. Thus, savings are a billion a year, not an increase. What's inherited that normally can't be corrected in a year. It's another thing to deceive the public. I'd say public fraud was in 2002 when you brought the Order of Salaries and Health Professionals down to the clerks, when you introduced HZZ into the budget and practically kicked him out of the status of an autonomous insurance company, when you reduced the hospitals from a 6 million-year budget to 5 and reduced the value of the points by 30%. That was cheating on the public, not this now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66682	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a part of the incorrect allegations that my colleagues have already corrected, so I'd say this. My colleague said that we are unable to secure what patients single out and for the money they receive too little, so I would just remind myself that we are out of 350 euros per capita. Slovenia 740, Ireland 2800, the Netherlands 1042, and yet it should read what the World Health Organization says that, based on perhaps quality indicators, the state of health in Croatia is better than could be expected according to the given economic situation as compared to several similar countries. Indeed, according to several health indicators, Croatia is approaching the EU average more than a certain number of reference countries. She also said that growing corruption is not true, that only 1 to 1 and a half percent of the hospital patients surveyed said they were in a situation to give one of the types of bribes. Therefore, these indicators speak the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66684	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66685	... The red presses the buttons. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] They like the red color, so they shut me out. So, an honorary representative who, out of politicization and more out of ignorance, stated the following false allegations, is a catastrophic health administration. This is the opposite of the profession called health management because the World Health Organization has placed Croatia among 35 out of 192 countries exactly by organisation and by health administration. Not according to expertise, because other countries of the former Yugoslavia have similar experts as we do, so there are dozens of places behind us on that ranking list. Secondly, she said incorrectly that this strategy because there is no new idea repeats from previous target strategies. It repeats them out of need because the previous SDP strategy of the government in 2000 has said 13 goals and failed to achieve one. I'll only count one. On page 36, one of the goals was to insert a generic list of medicines. They didn't even start with her. I hope that at the end of this strategy we will end this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66686	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of the bogaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66687	Thank you. counterpart Antunovic read from this strategy that patients will pay more and more and get less. That's completely incorrect. And it is known that in Croatia, patients single out the least funds from their own pocket for their own health in Europe. The introduction of private health insurance, rationalisation in the system, redistribution of costs within the system and society is never a deviation from solidarity. Yes, of course. I ask myself, is the rejection of this strategy and not participating in its improvement in SDP's contribution to better healthcare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66688	Thank you. In the name of the club HSU, distinguished representative Josip Sudec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66689	Ladies and gentlemen. There's a magic national strategy ahead of you. Why the magic? Because he's resting on a magic formula. No additional burden is one premium. There's no new budget burden. He's got better health care. In order to ultimately point out that the goal is to increase consumption control and less public health isolation that should be in the final line of 7.2 to 6, so where is the magic key? What's with the spell? The magic is that someone has to pay the bill eventually. The bill will pay the weakest link, and the weakest link is the patient. He's so patient. Then, when he endures everything, what this strategy offers him directly. After all, should a strategy be taken if we claim that our service and health care is approximately European level, that everyone praises us. And we think we're unhappy. So what kind of patients are we? If we want a balanced approach from public spending in private, then that means gentlemen of the pensioners, who I am also a member, please take a closer look at your pockets. As the administrative fees were a quiet genocide, there will be true genocide here. Because if you have money, you'll have health. If you won't have it, no one will guarantee it. And now my pensioners say, so wait, the Constitution guarantees health, gives you the right to work, etc. That's why that guarantee is not something sacred. So if something is sacred, then I suggest that gentlemen call a referendum with a question of whether you are for health reform on the principle of solidarity between the healthy and the sick. So you will see what people say, what the people who chose us say, and whose representatives we are. Why are we putting new burdens on their net income again? Neto, from the net salary you paid all the contributions, you paid taxes, you paid taxes, and now, in the end, you have to pay the health care service once more, or the health tax you want, it comes down to the fact that you have to pay. So it won't be easy, 'cause you'll be paying twice for health insurance. One day you'll pay for it out of contributions, and another time you'll pay for it from net income that you've already paid for all social obligations. It is said that health care will be better, there will be fewer waitings, there will be less, better health care services. Waitings will continue, reception restrictions will continue to be, taxes will continue, additional health insurance will surely be collected. Why am I doing this? So I'm doing it for the simple reason that everything crucial in health care will be solved by sublegal acts. That's how it's been done so far. I don't think that's going to change anything. What we're doing here, I think, is doing these short-term goals, which are the goals of balance in health, doing it long-term to the health burden of the population. So we're following short-term goals, and in the long run, it's going to light on smaller or weaker health care. As far as the strategy is concerned, this strategy is a mix strategy in '93. and 2000. This is just a mix. You even have whole pages that are simply complicated. So we didn't give anything new. If we want to achieve the ultimate goals, then I think that in a budget that fills something better than planned, that we can provide additional resources or ask the citizens whether they are for solidarity and whether they are for the singles that will be in the future because we want to achieve something that is evident. We want to transfer funding from the state budget to the net income of workers and pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66690	Thank you. Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to look back on actually this debate that was held there. Well, allow me a few observations to still take down a certain cover here that it's made. First of all, it was about the polls. A poll and a poll, how different it is. There are those who are scientifically founded, which therefore go into the field of statistical research that must be designed, which have their own duration and which, of course, include a number of persons entering such a principle. But we also have those polls, so-called. fast-tracked by telephone, on the street, in one say street passersby chance etc. These aren't polls, they can't be scientifically relevant. And when we're taking the data out here and I think we're all very serious and responsible people here, we have to also share the relevant data that's scientifically justified. We are in the course of a major survey of not polling, researching patient satisfaction with the quality of health care that we are doing for the first time and in the primary health care system and we are working within the hospital system and we are doing it based on what groups of experts within the Institute of Statistics, Medical Faculty, within the Croatian Institute of Public Health have designed and presented as one project. And that's a scientific approach. These results will be published entirely in September. I can now provide a flat-rate initial of some kind of data but that would be very unserious of me. So when we talk about some things, we have to analyze the data we have. The truth is, we have data that were actually based on a survey that was done in 2000 and that data we actually heard where the service was actually well rated at that time. What I'm going to be now is just as casually based on what we have, I don't want to go out with it because it would be extremely unserious. So we can refer to how others judge us because, in the meantime, others have gained some sort of attitude about ourselves, and of course we use that data. I'm constantly listening to the patient's burden. I don't know what's going on. I wonder what. The only thing we're transferring to the patient's burden, and I'm going to say it publicly, and I said it in the opening statement is that we want them to respond to our preventive checks. Yeah, that's what we want to transfer to the patient's burden to make every single person realize that his health is the most important thing. The people do not say for free, "A healthy man has a thousand desires, only one sick." So let's not let that sick guy have that one wish. Let's try to prevent it first, and we absolutely put it at the expense of every individual, and that means we'll come up with programs like early detection programs for various tumour diseases, cardiovascular diseases, but we're asking individuals to respond to that review and I don't see where the second burden is. Somewhere in the air. I have to admit, we didn't suggest it in any segment. For the future pro futuro yes, but when? And we made that clear. As soon as there's a prerequisite for that. And we wrote it clearly and beautifully, and so I'm behind it. I'm glad that two things are actually highlighted and that's the functioning of health homes. That's right. Whether it's the directors or the leaders, the mayors, the mayors, and believe me, with a large number of these people, I've spoken to them personally and whether they're therefore from the ranks of position or opposition. The opposition told me, Ministers, don't give me up. All of the ranks have actually made it clear that the system of uniting home health for areas of special state interest and for islands is not a good solution. And absolutely that is why we are proposing to change that solution because we simply want to give areas of special state interest and islands not only dignity but also specific, so to provide health care because there is always a question of availability and it is impossible to resolve by uniting specificities. That's impossible. And that's why we want those health homes back. There were of course here and speeches and two questions were asked and that is safety in the medical profession and therefore the problem with the waiting list. As far as the safety of the medical profession is concerned, I speak not only to doctors but also to our superiors, therefore, prepares, the middle professional prepares in the health care system perfectly. And the occasion here is to say why we have such good results and that we are actually limited by the degree of finance. Exactly because we still have a great quantity of enthusiasm in Croatia. We have high-quality people who go around abroad, who get a lot of credit abroad, and that's why they really need to be honored right now and thanked for doing a great job. And this is criticism, criticism to the former coalition government who actually decided not to reward those people. You have to reward whoever works and reward because it's a stimulant. Also, I'm not going to tell the consensus about consent. Once again, I would like to make it clear that there are no misunderstandings and indeterminations. The strategy is broadly consistent with social partners, with chambers, but I repeat once again with patient associations. And I want to point this out. When I called the patients' associations, there's a lot of them, some of us were able to circle a little bit by forming a so-called. coalitions, alliances of associations. And when I asked them how well you felt about the administrative fee, you know what they told me. They told me like this, a healthy man looks at it from one perspective, but a sick man who's waited a year, two,... A sick kid who had to go shopping outside for some medication, so these people were waiting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's just a fund of expensive drugs, so you saw it, it's actually the largest quantum of those funds. And that's what we have to be proud of, in fact, because we've made it possible for us to get a waiting list of different expensive medicines, of course if there's an indication, so if there's a justification for using these medicines, to be significantly reduced. Spoony, here you all are, many of you were involved in actions, I don't know, "Anna Maria" in the world of sounds, let's hear, etc. Well, the snails have increased the financial budget by almost four times. Four times, two million kunas. Why? So again it's one side of prevention in children, installing an early snail so we don't have rehabilitation, we have a child that will normally go to school. On the other hand, people who have lost virtually no hearing at a later age will also be given the opportunity to hear. And these are actually things that we have to take absolutely. A few words only about the property censorship, please. Let's throw out a socrealist approach, you got an apartment, get the house back, or I don't know what crazy thing to do. This is about the social card, which is exactly what most union centres have suggested. So, people who can be more socially sensitive. They suggested it because they want to introduce and we want to introduce a fair system. Well, we can't afford to have someone who makes an income of a thousand and a few hundred kunas, and on the other hand, I don't know how many quantum shares, a few companies or I don't know, so there's savings in what. He's making revenue from that side, we don't recognize him. So you're going to allow it to be the most realistic, therefore, access to what we want, which is that really certain benefits go to those who need them. Both in the system, in the social care segment, and in health care. Waiting lists. Absolutely, our big problem. But look, where are the waiting lists? Are the waiting lists in the highest number of general hospitals? No, I don't. The waiting lists are in large clinical systems, and here we have a problem. We have a problem why? Because the way to finance these actually the hospital has de facto set up such large waiting lists. On the other hand, it was about shift work. Well, we already have it at almost all clinical hospitals and clinical hospital centers. No, we almost don't have a radiology that doesn't work practically on two shifts. And the scope and rotation, so the patients are practically in that system. I can see it blinking, so I'll cut it short. In the end, the question was, does it take this government many years to accomplish everything we've plotted for it? No, I'll say we don't need many years. We need, therefore, by the end of the next term and we will realize everything we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66692	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66693	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I must say, I do not share with Mr. Minister this optimism and that this system is not a fair system at all. In his opening statement, Mr. Minister said that we have good and quality material ahead of us, of course referring to the Strategy. By reading this same material, I have not come up with anything good and good. First of all, no serious government in the second half of its mandate brings the National Strategy when it comes to a large system such as health care, especially when it is in total collapse as our health care. I'll be back a few months. In this same assembly, we discussed a report on the national single policy strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006. Your ministry in this same strategy has spent only one measure of all tasks, and there have been deadlines and carriers. How do you take you seriously when you talk about a strategy for a much bigger and more complicated area such as the entire health care system, regardless of the carriers and on time limits. I have warned you many times so far of mistreatment of persons with disabilities in the health care system. Also, no matter how hard I try, I have not received a quality answer that would justify your insensitivity to the category of people with disabilities. I have warned you and I warn you and now that the rights of persons with disabilities in the health care system are being abolished, reduced or strengthened by criteria for the exercise of certain rights. Since it's about concrete people, I'm going to be talking about specific cases. You have abolished the right to pay travel expenses to persons who are treated more than 90 kilometers from where they live. You have been warned by colleagues, associations too, and the SDP Club has proposed to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act in order to put an end to this shameful decision. But you were deaf, and only now do you return through this Strategy and travel expenses, and you had much more opportunities because you were the minister who could have solved the same problem with one decision, and in the end you should not have abolished it. And while this Strategy brings together those who are the most damaged will continue to pay the government, and thus your social sensitivity to which they will return on several more occasions. In the last few days, I have been on several round tables that have been organized by people with disabilities, as far as the regulations of orthopedic and other aids are concerned. Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you have made a strong emphasis on prevention, and in practice, no "p" from prevention. You have reduced the number of bars to measure the level of sugar in your blood, you have limited the supply of available orthopaedic aid, thus jeopardising the quality of life of people with disabilities. A few months ago, a young man died of ecubitus, which he received because of the inability to obtain an anti-decoubitary pillow. I note that in the countries with which Mr Hebrang put us simply unimaginable in his presentation. You have reduced the number of physical therapies in the insurance company, i.e. patients, thus jeopardizing the quality of rehabilitation. You also reduced the number of minutes for patients who needed medical care in the house. Then you take every person who needs orthopedic shoes and takes one. For people with disabilities living in the country, you have disabled any medical care in the house and physical therapy. I also warned you on several occasions that since 1.10.2005 in the district of Razanac and other places along the hinterland, no healthcare facility in the house has provided its services to users. You must admit that this may all be one easy discrimination against people with disabilities living in the country. But in this Strategy, you don't talk about it again. You are talking about the availability of health services to everyone, but not in any way. Starting with physical barriers, needed teams and beyond. Please tell me how you plan to educate doctors, nurses and the entire healthcare machine for the application of the new strategy if you have failed to educate a few professional associates for the application of an ordinary rule that I have already mentioned. I'd end my debate with one of your measures in the strategy. Paragraph 2 states: Limit the growth of health costs and establish financial stability of the system, introduce planning and management into the health system and organise a system of financing and paying for health services. In translation this means another blow to the poorest, to their standard and to impose discriminatory relations in providing health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66694	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66695	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm very glad to have my colleague, dear Vesna, fixed up like this occasionally, and she knows that I respect her, and I do it among other things and for that. So, colleagues of Shkulish, you said that you are surprised that the government brings a strategy in half of its mandate, given that the health care system is collapsed. I don't think it's true that the health care system is collapsing, and that it brings a strategy amongst other things if it's true your finding that it's in collapse then it needs a strategy as it should and if it's not what I think it is. On the other hand, you said that some of these fees were denied, etc. And they're not... fees, and they've been announced by a new strategy. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, a new strategy... corrects the system's weaknesses. You mentioned, I especially appreciate your concern for people with disabilities and I absolutely respect that and you mentioned that someone died because they didn't have a pillow I don't know, to prevent decubitus. I think we need to know that people don't die of decubitus, people die because of a underlying disease and decubitus are, among other things, accompanied by the occurrence of some severe illnesses and can cause death as well as the final stage. I think it's a few of these little things that actually point out that maybe it's not all so black and that black doesn't need to be watched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66696	And the esteemed representative Kajo Bucan, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66697	Well, the esteemed representative said that reading this document found nothing good or good that wasn't written there. It is possible, but then you skipped to read page 13, and on that page you would also read and read the World Health Organization data on the state of health in the Republic of Croatia and said that it can be illustrated the shortest way by the fact that the WHO on the classification of child mortality in groups A to E placed Croatia in the most prestigious group, in Group A with very low child mortality and low adult mortality, and that from the transition countries according to the 2004 data in that group only Slovenia and the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66698	Thank you. Dear Representative and Vice President Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66699	Dear Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will only in principle refer to the health system development strategy for the period 2006-2011, because there is really no time in detail in these 10 minutes. And immediately to point out, of course I will support this strategy for the development of the health system for several reasons. First because it is socially sensitive, because it leads to the reorganisation of the health system management leading to financial balance, and I will say in the end that it shows the political responsibility of the ruling guarantee and the ruling party. Why am I saying that? We are in a very tangible period, a year, a year and a half before the parliamentary elections and the ruling set, I would once again say, I would raise above the narrow political interests and when I was told to create an increased public opinion that would certainly have an impact on the next parliamentary elections, and the Croatian Democratic Community has made a political decision to go into the strategy and reform of the health system knowing that it may be misread in public or that the opposition I sincerely hoped would help with some good proposals during this health reform, knowing that the opposition will try to blast the strategy of developing the health system in 2006-2011 or reforming the health system. We have a lot of words from ladies and gentlemen, especially from opposition, social sensitivity. Well, I'll point out, said distinguished representative Antunovic in front of the SDP club, that you've reduced your contribution to the health system and strengthened the competitiveness of work, that's true. But I will read to you from your strategy that you have brought, that you have provided alternative sources resulting from the reduction of contributions to the health system, the majority will be compensated for the increase in participation. So I accept that. I accept your health system strategy as Deputy Prime Minister and you have participated, but I do not now accept the full mouth of the SDP sociale when I say this, we leave additional insurance in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute system for one reason for it to be a correction of that supplementary insurance that is on the market and that is another social sensitivity of the health system development strategy in 2006-2011 of this Government or the ruling party. I'm going to say one more thing and I don't think that's good enough, very prominently, yet another social sensitivity of this 2006-2011 Health System Development Strategy is a list of A and B medicines. That list A contains not only generic drugs seems to me somewhere 50% of the European Union's countries have generic characters somewhere around 60, over 60%. So there are 50% of generic drugs and 50% of the originals. But what's important is that the price comes through bidding and that we've achieved the lowest price and now I'm not accusing but I'm asking if maybe some of the stakeholders have found a fertile soil in the opposition so that in the way this strategy and the reforms of the health care system will be eliminated and this same strategy, the same reform of the health system. This strategy therefore clearly speaks of the reorganisation of the management of the health system, but perhaps more importantly about the fairness, accessibility of the health system. I watched some data, read, and these days came to a conclusion, but the data that said that from 2001 to 2003 there was a drop in teams in primary paediatric health care and primary gynaecological health care. Now that's something you should also point out when it comes to social sensitivity... The strategy, your strategy, and at the time of your coalition government, has come down to these teams and we all swear to the young ones, the ones who will inherit us, and at that time we're going to tell the ultrasound and the women who were over twice on the ultrasound were only somewhere around 16%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Health System Strategy aims to ensure that pregnant women who have an orderly pregnancy must have more than 6, between 6 and 10 health checks during their pregnancy, and until now only 33% of pregnant women have had more than 6 exams during their pregnancy. So, when it comes to the financial balance of the health system, I am extremely happy that much of this Strategy is also talking about that part, about financial balance. Of course when, and I am one of those who manages one county hospital, the county hospital in Gospić, and I meet with these problems, so when you do an analysis of consumption and, or income and expenditure then you end up with some figures that are really a doctor, but also as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia are really strange, and this strategy has actually devoted a lot of its part to that part in this financial balance, so when you see that from the primary health care of 100 manuals that have been sent to laboratory tests from these 100 reviews 95, over 95% of these reviews are within the limits of normal, which would mean that they are unnecessary. He also said that the representative, or representative of the HSP Club, seems to him to be this Strategy, this reform of the health system is solely for financial purposes, so that it is not necessary to hide that this is, of course, related to both the financial system and the reduction of financial issues in the health system because... As long as the blanket is long, and we all know well that the economy of the Republic of Croatia cannot bear such a system of financing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I particularly welcome these two, two national early detection programs for breast cancer and colon cancer, and I don't suppose anyone needs to stress that much less means are needed to treat such phenomena, such tumors than is necessary for early detection. As far as I'm concerned... census to what most seems to me to have resistance from the ranks of opposition parties, so I guess we can also do that and everyone mentions the peasants who have them or farmers who have no idea how many hectares of the country and who do not process, and nobody mentions what they're after, weighs this property censorship when, said the distinguished representative Hebrang, when some tycoons are freed from participation, or some people who have some income of a thousand, two or three thousand kuna, and they have three more apartments that rent so that their total income exceeds 20 thousand kuna per month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I guess that property censorship will also be able to control itself in a way that produces profit or not from certain assets. I would especially like to mention hospitals in the area of special state care and I think that in that part of this strategy we should pay full attention because it seems to me to these hospitals, let me say that we should invest hyper-investment in both the whenever and the equipment to set the correct deadlines so that these hospitals in the area of special state care could, under quotes, "business" on the market principle. For all of this, I will support the 2006-2011 Health Development Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66700	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative of Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66701	Thank you. So the incorrect assumption is that we've amortised the reduction in the contribution rate by increasing participation. In fact, if in the strategic document we then envisioned an increase in participation, we did not realize it, contrary to that. We covered the existing participation with additional insurance. In fact, we gave up on such an attitude at that time and remain consistent today and therefore are not hypocritical at all. We realized that we cannot uncritically accept IMF and World Bank suggestions that are going in practice to increase participation, which is what today's Government does, unlike the then unfortunately. It is true that the reduction in the contribution was amortised by the growth of economic activity, I will recall for 2003 the GDP growth rate was over 5% compared to 2004 when it fell to 3.8% and it is normal that current health care cannot solve problems because it does not know how to solve the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66702	Six replicas. First, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66703	Your Honor, first of all, if we don't shut this cooling down, we're all gonna end up in the hospital. Whether it's a shame or a benefit I don't know, but I really think we're all gonna freeze here. My colleague Milinovic, you mentioned social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66704	Give me the heat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66705	And righteousness in the field of health, and it is indeed the most sensitive area. I have to say that there is neither justice nor social sensitivity as long as there is a situation as it exists at this point in Split where something has broken down, no angeography, this hall does not work. All people who have a diagnosis, who are threatening to break their aorta on their own, are no longer required by a clinical hospital, must buy "stents". It is between 50 and 60 thousand kunas to come alive to Zagreb to a clinical hospital, say Dubrava and so on, try to resolve the situation. As long as it falls on the patient's back, we can't talk about social justice. Only a very wealthy man can stand it. You mentioned, so it's in the beginning unfair that such a situation is possible. You mentioned drugs. A friend of mine said yesterday that he was threatening Croatian medicine to become medicine. And it's really one warning to all of us, and as far as these censors are concerned, it's all about who's been released so far? Those who are alone and have until 1930 kuna. Those as family members who have 1560 kunas, children under 18, 80% disabled. It's about them. So let's not let them have some new shoe model take that opportunity. We've been hit in history many times when we talked about what anybody has, what doesn't have as a criterion to achieve someone's right. That there were a lot of unfair situations. So nobody's against taking away a tycoon's right like those singers we paid for what I know, rich people don't know what or don't know who? It's about this category. Those who are threatened and who may possibly be even more wronged to have this kind of benefit lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66706	Is it a little warmer? Is it warmer? [[The intruders don't understand.]] The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66707	As far as climate is concerned, you're Dalmatian, I'm Personal. I'm still hot, so it's just, I'm mine on mine when it's around zero. [[Intruder: Milinović.]] As far as social sensitivity is concerned, you mentioned a case from Split. I'm saying again we don't need to overly politicize with social sensitivity, but when you took my word, I'll remind you of the mushroom medicine when the lymphoma-treated associations begged the last coalition government, and there were 30 cases in Croatia and "Glivek" meant life to them. Literally, "Glivek" meant life to them. Those 30 people had to set aside 20 to 30,000 kuna a month to live. You didn't have that social sensitivity and put that drug on the list, we had it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66708	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66709	Well, I too will look back on that part of the exposure when my colleague Milinovic pointed out on several occasions the social sensitivity of this strategy. Namely, when you introduce an administrative fee that has been in operation for almost a year, when the refund has been lifted, a refund of transport costs has been lifted for up to 100 km to medical assistance and children with disabilities for which about 3 million kunas should be allocated annually. So that's the kind of savings we went to. Then in a society like Croatia where the gross social product is below €7,000. Where the average pension is 1850 kuna. And where's the average salary below 5,000 kuna. We really can't say it's socially sensitive. So at some level of EUR 15 thousand of the gross social product, we can talk about increasing the costs of the patient in health, health and medical care. At such a low level, if introduced, there is no social sensitivity. Namely, there was a trend in the growth of social gross products from 2002 and 2003 when it was 5.6 and 5.3%, respectively, then perhaps the health situation would be different. But when we fell in the first year of this term to 3.8, that last year's assessment of 4.3 and that in the projection, the fiscal projection satisfied the government by 2007 that it was about 4 to 4 and a half percent then we can't talk about social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66710	The reply to the replica of Vice President Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66711	Look again is the problem with that social sensitivity. I really wouldn't want to politicize with that. I really wouldn't want to politicize as a humanist as a doctor. But I will point out once again, nowhere, anywhere in Europe, in European Union countries, you do not have a completely free list of medicines. We do. Nowhere in Europe, you don't have any additional insurance in our HZZO that controls the supplementary insurance that's on the market. And that's social sensitivity. I agree that there may be a part or segment that is less sensitive but you cannot characterise this reform, this strategy for the development of the health system in 2006-2011 as socially insensitive. When a patient won't be able to get a health care service at the hospital, he'll have the right to do this strategy with a private person, only I don't agree that it's not with a contracted private with HZZO. Let it be with a private who has the same price, which is possibly a negotiated private with HZZO. So you can't extract individual segments, minor segments and characterise this health system development strategy, overall as socially insensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66712	The next replica is the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66713	So I think to my colleague Milinovic that it is absolutely everyone's interest that our patients have as good health care as possible and that the health system is developing. But it's hard to invite us to a consensus about the nerado. Unfortunately, the facts say that over the past 3 years, the ministry's inactivity has increased, so the hospital losses, and a few days ago we had almost a financial collapse of 50% of the hospitals in Croatia. And you definitely can't ask for our consensus on such a move. On the other hand, I'd just like to say that we warned when there was an administrative fee that was unfair. You know why? Because we went to the sick, not to the healthy. We lost one solidarity between the healthy and the sick. From the point of view of what the minister just said, we have a certain financial impact. Well, people in my sick population are twice as small as healthy. So health has not been participated rather than the sick who are in a bad situation because they are struggling with their own illness and the increased costs of the moment when the patients who are really in some diseases are so much that people are very, very difficult to treat. And in the end, we warned of social insensitivity when it comes to children and these unfortunate 100 kilometers of treatment. You know that in Croatia there are still a very large number of children who collect funds for humanitarian actions so that children can go abroad for treatment. So this is the last population in which we were supposed to introduce health savings in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66714	The reply to the replica, the respected MP Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66715	Here's what I'm going to suggest to the honourable representative, here's what I'm going to do. If I had a magic wand, you know what I would do, that for the next parliamentary elections or pre-election campaign we would go with one consensus. That we will support the reform of the health system regardless of the position or opposition. We must be responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and here I am if I had a magic wand I would do it today. I'll do anything for myself. Make you on your own as powerful as you are, as influential as I am in my party. There's no financial collapse. If there was a financial collapse, there would be a blockade of one of the hospitals. Tell me a hospital that didn't pay the salary that came into such a blockade that it failed to pay the salaries to the workers working at that health care facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66716	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Next replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66717	You're telling an esteemed colleague that the opposition is mined by this strategy. You don't think that's true. Neither can that opposition, nor will it. You have most, you will bring strategy. The opposition can't be mined. This strategy of yours and these ideas of yours are dominated by the citizens above all by the patients. Now you're saying it's all great and it's very good for them. For example, they pay that tax. It's like they're crazy, like they don't know they're not doing well. You claim it's good that you don't pay transportation for these sick children more than 100 km and you call it here in Parliament a minor segment. Look, the kids may be small, but they're not a minor segment when their parents have to pay for 100 km of transportation. You haven't been able to solve it for months, you don't think you can solve it, you can't think of a way to solve it. Well, they're not crazy when they know what you did to every hospital principal because you claimed they were incompetent, and they paid suppliers within 135 kuna. These men of yours pay 365 days later, and they're more capable now. Well, citizens aren't stupid! Census. You're going to fight the tycoon. You didn't just name this tycoon a tycoon, you just pulled him out, and now you're fighting to get him punished, so he doesn't get released, or I don't know what because he's got shares. It's your fight against the tycoon. Please, nice! So bring in the property tax, and collect the tax money, so don't... People, because that's what you're gonna make them do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A peasant to sell his land, an old man to sell his apartment. That's all you're gonna do. And the last. You say which hospital is blocked. Here's the hospital in Požega. He won't be able to pay his salary. It won't be possible because you left the old mayor's new mayor completely empty, and the government's forcing him to finance hospitals and patients. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66718	The reply to the replica of Vice President Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66719	I'm not if you listened well, I said children are a minor segment. I said something while you were talking as you have so far so you don't hear the answer to the replica that this strategy will increase the number of pediatric teams, the number of gynaecological teams, and that's actually the answer that the ruling party thinks about children, and I said that in the strategy so far, the minor segment in financial terms refers to individual segments. Of course the opposition you say can't mine this strategy for the development of the health system. I've said maybe some stakeholders over the opposition try it. I made it sound like loud thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66720	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Milinovic, you resent us not to make proposals, quality proposals on the proposed strategy. I don't know if you were in the Parliament when there was a previous debate where I personally made a dozen proposals without politicizing and outwitting. But there's nothing in there. Another example. Today I asked, the minister was manifested for the first part of the debate because on page 44, point 3, local self-government was misrepresented, and should be regional or thought that municipalities and cities would buy medical equipment for hospitals and health homes, so that I could intervene with the amendment. No one wants to answer me whether it's a mistake or not. How, then, to make quality suggestions when asking the question I'm asking here, and please, I don't get an answer. There's no minister now. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State if he can answer me. It's either a mistake or it's really meant for local self-government. Or is it a mistake? Either we're giving the amendment, if it's a mistake or a mistake, or you're gonna fix it. Second. We're attacking the property censorship. We're not attacking him. At least I don't, so long as you don't do it because there's no answer to what property censorship you're going to suggest. An existing social or some other. I can't accept your claim that these are tycoons for the purpose of introducing property. You're telling me what tycoons can't wait to be sick to go free 10 kunas per medical examination to abuse and use it. Well, they're not the tycoons we're doing it for, are they? At first, I didn't know there were so many in Croatia. And the second thing I didn't know was that we became tycoons because we freed them from the administrative fees in health care. And in the end, you're a doctor, you resent your colleagues in primary health care for the fact that 90% of lab findings were within normal limits. And what? Diagnostics eye-gathering system, crystal ball, map, surplus. We're not going back to that, are we?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66722	The reply to the replica of Vice President Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66723	Let me, as a doctor, know more about lab tests than you do. So, I'm talking about those findings when you know you come to a doctor when you have a sore throat, so he sends you to a hundred urine tests, blood, so, on that, in this segment of 30 tests, one can be circled and you make white blood cells, so you can see how much that is or what else is needed. The property census was not referred to on the tycoon, but it was only one of my examples, and I really remember your good proposals from your party at the time of the coalition government when you were among the 10 directors, my smallness was the only one from HDZ to propose my shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66724	Ah, it's a fragile memory! Marine, is it warmer? I have to take care of the man. And the esteemed representative, Antun Kapraljevic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66725	Thank you, Mr. President. So all the time we've been hearing praises about moving from income to property censorship and all the talk is that it's far better than it's ever been before and giving an example of how some tycoons have very low incomes, and that's why they're simply free from paying administrative fees. I'd like to remind you that there are 120,000 in this country that work for less than 2,000 kuna. And I would also like to remind you that there are 660,000 pensioners who have income, who have a pension of less than 2,000 kuna. And we have 311 thousand, and we can count on at least 150 thousand of those who really don't have any income, who are unemployed and have no income. This means that we have about a million tycoon people who have some kind of property and who simply because they have some kind of property should be exempt from administrative fees. I don't agree with that finding. I think that every fourth is practically poor in our country and it's normal to be free of administrative fees and to have some health benefits. All that we're saying is that these poor people won't be able to heal themselves, and believe me, the most endangered are these 660,000 pensioners. Because they're the sickest, they need medical care the most, and they don't have money. And how many people have flats, how many people have houses, we need to get rid of it by tax on property, not health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66726	Replication response, Vice President Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66727	All of these groups that you've numbered are not going to touch, they're not going to nick. Well, it's the property censorship that's being proposed for reasons to prevent abuse of an existing strategy, or possibly law. So I point out once again, and there are cases where the income of 2 thousand kuna has been reported, and indeed there are 3 more apartments and each rents 3 thousand kuna. Well, you do the math, and then you make sense of it in a healthy manner, and there's a lot of it that's been released from participation, at the heart of this group that you've been talking about. And this was the intensity of the property censorship I'm talking about, not what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66728	Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66729	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is actually very difficult to support this strategy, because the first thing to answer is the question of why strategies and what needs to be regulated strategy. The strategy should probably provide answers and projections of what we will do in a particular area, a particular authority, specifically here in the healthcare authority to ensure that individual and nation health is improved. However, the fact is that this strategy does not actually take account of it and that it is not in conformity with the constitutional provision guaranteeing the right to health care under the law, Article 58. The Constitution does not take the very principles of health care that are in force in the Republic of Croatia, which is written here. I will again quote page 17. Where health care in the Republic of Croatia is said to be based on principles, I quote: "Availability, justice, efficiency and quality, and the principle of ensuring the safety of citizens in the use of healthcare.". Dear colleagues and colleagues, that this is the case and that it is not so harmonised they best show exactly the measures proposed on page 44 under the heading of the principle which, in fact, is the 41st pardon, which does not actually speak of any principles but speaks of measures and policies which will also be ensured by the instruments to achieve this strategy. So what, or what bush does the rabbit lie in? The rabbit is revealed if page 9 is looked at and suddenly you see, I quote: "That, however, in order to withdraw these funds, the Ministry of Health in charge should develop its development strategy, and a strategy in each of the areas of importance for the acquis.". It is the funds from the access funds, and we are practically bringing this strategy in so that we can access these funds, in line with the Action Plan that the Government adopted in 2004. E, but there are some conditions that have within them and one part of the neoliberal concept of access to health, related in fact to the introduction of a pair of contributions through, in terms of health contributions, through health participations that should be paid by individuals, and at the same time not to burden the labour price, the gross labour price through an increase in contributions. That's the first one. The other thing to warn you about. Our strategy would have to answer some questions that are objective and that we have to answer, which is the question that we are increasing the disease and mortality of heart disease, from I don't know, malignant tumors etc., etc., that I don't list which is all written on page 14 and which are the result among other difficult social conditions in which the population, standards and, of course, the consequences of war and war injuries, as well as the individual collective assets experienced during the Homeland War. Unfortunately, when we look at this aspect, then this data that colleagues have already spoken is actually standing, it must not be bypassed. If we have almost 660 thousand pensioners who receive a pension below 2 000 or more precisely less than the average pension of 824 kuna, if we have a re-enlargement of workers who work and do not receive wages, if we have a return of workers who receive wages below 2 thousand kuna, if we have the fact that the average salary does not meet the average needs of the average family, etc., then it is quite clear that the living individual standard of our population is actually such that it is quite questionable and that very often it reflects on the health condition of individuals and families. In such a situation very often when they need to seek health care come into a dilemma whether to go to preventive checks and try to provide health care and to single out that money or buy and sort out somehow the existential needs that are necessary in such a situation. I agree here entirely with a colleague who spoke on behalf of the Retirement Party. We need to take care of this situation, and we need to be aware that a large part of the population can't really single out such resources and that the consequence is that in a given situation they come into a difficult disease which, of course, worsens the possibility of healing and increases the cost of treatment. Therefore, this strategy does not provide answers and we need to bring it into line with reality, we need to comply with our Constitution and we need to comply with these principles that we ourselves have written here in this strategy. If we want to stay on that kind of principle. The other thing I have to say is the question of actually the instruments that want the strategy... In fact, the end line is about contributions and additional payments and is about a double list of medicines, basic and this supplemental. [[You don't understand.]] There is no question here whether there will be a basic and supplemental list of medicines. They're supposed to be. But the question is, what kind of drugs are they going to be elsewhere, etc. and what's the alternative. There are also such situations everywhere in Europe that should not be ignored, but it cannot be accepted that the payment of access on the one hand is at the same time complementary, a contribution, or an additional contribution through the so-called. the fee to be paid and at the same time you still need to pay the medicine additionally. So wait, you're paying twice what you already paid once through a mandatory salary contribution. Therefore, the question is now, in particular, who pays for it. Well, part of it is paid by those who are sick and not by those who are healthy and who should be in a position to work together in solidarity and in this respect are actually contradictory to the principles on which we want to set this strategy. There is no other choice but to actually ask the question of how and how to redistribute payments and for this part of the common needs that should be implemented through the taxation of assets, i.e. rich in the Republic of Croatia and reroute that part to this segment. Of course, here I have to say that I was surprised by a whole series of views that were written in the strategy itself which were objectively contradictory. For example, if we look again at the principles on page 17 and compare them to page 26 where we talk about goals, so let me say, it's said like this, I'll quote: which is summed up by saying... on several components of which are the crucial extension of life span, life... [[You don't understand.]] adverse health effects, health improvement, quality of life and functions and real ability. [[You don't understand.]] Now the question is how is that part in secure... with these principles on the availability of equality, etc. etc. Health insurance and whether it's real in the strategy at all. [[You don't understand.]] Well, it's not. So we write one thing, and in fact the reality is quite different from the way it goes, and in such a situation, we certainly need to do something more serious. Therefore, if the strategy is to be made for Europe, but especially for us, only then should it be a different situation that is listed. Or let's say... This is how the strategy is said, therefore, to answer the question of how policy is implemented, who implements it, in what time intervals and under what conditions and circumstances. [[You don't understand.]] So for God's sake, the strategy needs to set the goals of achieving some future policy, and the policy to give the instruments and measures to be answered, and not to respond to how something is implemented, so it's not... report and analysis. [[You don't understand.]] So I think, the example works I just cited some of the things that point to a whole series of contradictions that are present here and that should actually be discussed very seriously that some of these data collected in this strategy are used to draw up a strategy. This should be one of the materials that assumes the creation of a strategy which should take into account the objectives and principles on which the health needs of Croatian citizens should be met in the coming period. Of course, the most interesting are the evaluations of the way of funding and it is said to be indistinguishable to the citizens, and in fact Bizmark's model and so on. A mixed system model and so on through all these models. Now the question is, what are we doing with health care? Unfortunately, both in financing and in applying measures, we use so-called. Palitative measures, rather than having a concept and if we do not have a concept and we do not have a strategy, should therefore be adopted, the issue of a unique model should be resolved which will provide a question between other and financing and meeting the needs and, of course, make it easier to provide healthcare to healthcare professionals, and, in particular, to open up a debate in that segment on the situation of health care professionals who should and in what way should resolve the issue of not only fair but also the quality reward for providing health care services. Now, the special thing that opens up is the question of actually the relationship between hospitals that are in the country, regional hospitals and health homes. On the one hand, we are saying that we should return the Andrija Printer model, which is quite certain, given that we have a poor population, a large number of unemployed, etc. where they also have the right to health care and must have the opportunity to provide primary health care through health care homes, and on the other hand, at the same time, technically-technological we have not fully equipped these health homes fully and in fact these doctors who have been through some specialization of general medicine have no options, have nothing to work with in health homes. It is therefore necessary to see, and the burden of the funding obligation is transferred to regional and local self-government at the same time sources of income that would ensure that this could be paid, we did not provide. So we are halfway through, we need to stop and we need to take it seriously, I think this strategy should be returned to the proposing that the proposaler, based on these documents and data, prepare a new proposal for a strategy for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66730	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66731	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said there was an increase in cerebrovascular mortality. I'd say that the standardized rate of mortality from cerebrovascular diseases to 100,000 people is still dropping every year, so, say, in 1999, it was 186, 2000. 173, 2002. 145 a 2003. 141,57. The truth is still something above the European average, which is 137.33 means mortality on 100,000 inhabitants. It is a similar situation for malignant novelists, and they also fall year after year so that since 99, when it was 103 thousand it fell to 96, but yet the European average is 84, so we need these promotional and preventive reviews, which is exactly what this strategy proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66732	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President Honored Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66733	Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you said it was me. I didn't. I was just quoting the Strategy and please don't put what I didn't say in my mouth according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66734	So you didn't say you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66735	No, no. I was quoting. I was quoting, that's different. It's not my position. It's the attitude of this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66736	Okay. Replica, respected representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66737	Dear Mr. President, we've heard from this morning of great anxiety and pleasure that something has been done, but I appreciate and understandably simply translate it by the fact that we're all somewhere on the general good and we want to solve this crucial problem as best we can. Now I'm going to tell you where my pleasure is in one segment. Let me see in this strategy where the strengthening of preventive activity is related to systematic examinations for patients with tumours, i.e. patients who are in a risk group of 55 to 69 years old and men. I think it's so important. Let's just remember one fact that there are 25 thousand new tumour patients in Croatia. No one has a guarantee. We need to help. But since the Strategy is written, and we know for ourselves, a list of expensive medicines, then highly sophisticated equipment, linear accelerators that are one of the therapeutic modes, then hospice, all this says that this section of medicine will in some way improve and that all these people who have, like, trouble getting that disease, that they will be with great care and our health care covered. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66738	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66739	The Honorable Mr. President, and teachingly on Mr. Arlovic's exposure to the instruments of the insurance of funds for the needs of health care, means for the needs of the reform. I'll tell you only one piece of information that I heard today on the Croatian Independent Trade Unions who have data and estimates that, say, TDR last year damaged the state by 2 and a half billion kuna on... cigarettes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, that's your amount where the ministry immediately settles the debts of all hospitals. And that the state behaves as a state in all other segments related to the grey economy, the assessment is real from experts who understand themselves in the field of the gray economy, that you range from 12 to 15 billion kuna. Here, this way you can implement a real strategy and secure resources without it going to the burden of the poorest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66740	Thank you. Replica response, vice president, respected representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66741	Not only TDR but anyone who has damaged the state in such a situation through tax evasion and contributions from the titles of the products and services they provide on the market. It is necessary to process and not only to collect what he has damaged but to charge them for such things and take other measures. And in this respect, I fully agree with you to initiate procedures for the rule of law to function and to process such cases in accordance with the applicable regulations and ensure that the necessary funds are collected to meet the common needs that we finance together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66742	Please. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66743	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind you that in March 2004, the heads of state and government of the then member states of the European Union made a presidential decision on the development strategy of the European Union, and many targeted, reform procedures have been carried out in order to achieve this strategy, especially in the health sector, and for very simple reasons. It spends nearly 10% of the gross social product, and 17 and a half million people were employed in health care in the European Union at that time. The trends in health costs are constants, are listed here countless times, and among other things, is the development of new technologies, new medicines, chronic diseases and the rise of citizens' expectations for increasingly expensive forms of health care. The increase in the cost of prescription drugs, over 3 billion kuna in 2004, the payment of total costs of medicines here in Croatia where the state participates with over 80% for example the difference from Slovenia where it is 60 or Poland with 37%. In view of the fact that the item for medicines that are projected in Europe is growing at 10% annually, and in 2003, for example, more than 30% of them increased in 2002, I do not question here, no one should be left without the necessary medicine, no patients, no pharmacy or hospital, but I see there perhaps the impact of the ministry on producers and traders who should reduce this abundance of profits because they are at the very top in the Republic of Croatia anyway. I am saying this because according to sources of the World Health Organization, the increase in drug consumption has no impact on the reduction of the morbidity and mortality curve, because according to the World Health Organization's data, there are 400 euros of medicines in the average drawer, and 40% of them are never spent. At the same time, we have witnessed that the media picture of Croatian health is getting worse, there is increased mistrust with the patient doctor. On the other hand, many forget the results of a large anonymous survey that has proved to be particularly positive about the ethics of healthcare professionals in providing health services. And the processes of globalisation, of course, have an impact on health policy in a small country like ours, in the recent past burdened with war and refugee and cause separations of both the rich and the poor. And the few nations with the past as they had seen it as a provocation, an injustice. To remind us, Croatia is the only country in Southeast Europe that has kept the social system in its entirety even though it has been hit most severely by war. But every attempt by the Ministry of Optimism, rationalization, almost everyone is waiting with their weapons drawn, everyone protects their rights. And we are the perfect model to be able to comply with in order to implement this Strategy we do not have. There are no members in the European Union who have no difficulty financing health care and are trying to reduce consumption and introduce new funding models. And that's why I welcome the commitment to strengthening preventive activities because the 2003 data when more than 30% of patients were sent to specialists for review than in 1990 means that each 3rd patient was actually sent to a specialist review. On the other hand, periodic systematic checks in 2003 were 72% less than 1990. Nevertheless, in 2004, the World Health Organization at one of its conventions, the Copenhagen meetings are said to be "based on the mortality indicators of the state of health, health in Croatia is better than could be expected according to a given economic situation as well as with several similar countries. Indeed, according to several health indicators, Croatia is approaching the EU average more than a certain number of reference countries.", finished quote. The same comes from the World Bank's 2005 report in a magazine that reads: "From the point of view of health results, the system works relatively well. The workforce is well-educated, public health programmes and health services are well-set, and health results are better than in most countries with similar income levels." And then finally, the remark is: "These results have been achieved at a high price and the growing HZZO deficit is causing concern." However, once again, I stress what has already been said in previous discussions, Croatia is again according to the World Health Organization's report, according to the quality of health care and usability of healthcare funds now 35th place out of over 190 countries accompanied by the World Health Organization. This is a relatively favourable position given the means to be allocated to the insurance undertaking, and other positive data are indicators of perinatal mortality and an increase in mean age. According to these indicators, we stand side by side of highly developed countries and in the World Health Organization classification towards child mortality in groups A to E Croatia is classified in Group A where only Slovenia and the Czech Republic are from transition countries. And allow one of my reviews on page 18 and medical staff data where we stand below the average of the European Union with 2.3 doctors per thousand inhabitants and 5.2 nurses per thousand. Yes, at the Employment Office at the end of 2000, there were 384 unemployed doctors with a state exam, and about 6 months ago, 91. There is a drop in the number of interested students who are interested in enrolment in medical schools and in this Strategy, and I also point to the Minister and Secretary of State, and I believe that this Strategy will now look specifically at this, and by the number of new graduates we are in the 5th place back in Europe. At the same time, I warn in the nearest neighborhood, which has no language barriers to Croatia, there are a thousand 500 unemployed doctors and study about 13,000 students. Few students in Croatia, even fewer newly graduated and the average age of Croatian specialists is 55 years. We're being threatened by a lack of a doctor. We will likely have a serious shortage in 2007 of both internalists and surgeons, but the task of this Strategy is that this situation is not the case in what is stated by reflection and timely planning. Balanced approach without new social burdens and the focus of a strategy in early diagnosis of tumours and diseases of blood vessels is a completely free list of medicines A, the emphasis on the need for discharge of the state budget is those things that give special weight to this Strategy and classify me among those who will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66744	Thank you. We interrupt the session. We'll continue at 3:00. It is next to the honourable representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66745	Take your seats so we can get started. Thank you very much. The word has, as already announced, a respected colleague, Ruzica Lelic. Here you go, pals!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66746	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Here, to discuss a health care system, a very complex system of special social interest that touches in fact every single person as we like to say from birth to grave. It's not just safe. How each individual can achieve his fundamental, human, constitutional, moral and ethical right to health and effective health care and be in line with the economic power of the country. Let's remind ourselves, here it is pointed out on several occasions, but I will say that we stand out 350 euros per capita, while Slovenia, let's say the neighbouring 740, and not to mention some other distant countries that stand out even more. It should be pointed out that the health system is in fact practically the only system in Croatia that has yet to maintain a full social approach and social system and any debate on changing such a sensitive system creates one concern and disapproval. I would cause, in that picture actually one article in the doctor's paper so I'll read it to one of his segments. He says "The globalisation process and external pressures on health policy cause the separation of the rights of rich and poor and richer patients with additional insurance or direct payment can provide apartment accommodation, faster service and other benefits. For great peoples and peoples who have not had a socialist history it is normal and does not cause any special reaction, but a small people with a socialist past see it as a great injustice because health and education according to average thinking should be fully solid with equal rights for everyone regardless of the depth of the wallet." I would also read this, "If you need to control the hip of a newborn child, family medicine doctor will send you an X-ray because the ultrasound is too expensive. At the request of our parents, such a child will also make a CT and ultrasound and also a magnetic resonance, and parents will still be mortally offended by the medical care because they had to wait for the appointment of the examination. It does not matter at all that all of this was neither professional, nor justifiable, nor necessary. The reasons for such a situation are complex but have a foothold in our political demagogy. How long have we heard here today in the debate of real demagogy? But respecting the profession in the media, the fact that hospitals have to work hard to earn a limit or budget." Here, I think what was presented shows why we actually have this kind of concern and disapproval when it comes to changing anything in health care. The debates have highlighted numerous shortcomings, but at the same time we are always against any kind of change, and therefore it could be concluded that our system in the present and well works and that there is nothing to change that we cannot agree on anyway. I will refer to the proposal for a national health development strategy from 2006 to 2011 concerning primary health care. I certainly particularly support what is meant to put emphasis on primary health care, on preventive and various preventive and promotional activities. We see in the report of the Croatian Institute of Public Health in 2005 about 11000 845 reviews were carried out for people over 50 years and they were, so 40 of them had increased pressure and 35 had increased sugar, 23 of them were sent to specialist reviews. We see how much this kind of preventive activity has its own justification and are actually the most cost-effective and easy to implement. The primary health care system is actually a healthcare security guard and a well-organised and efficient one should actually solve how 80% of all health needs are set here and the goal, but the sure question is how to make it functional, efficient and satisfied with both patients and doctors. We've seen here that when we're actually talking about the pleasure of taking some countries and partnering with them, then we actually see that the pleasure is practically the same no matter how much we single out in health care. So Slovenia that sets out twice as much is the same pleasure as around 3 and here, or here, in the Netherlands, where it stands out, or Ireland, where 2,000 and 800 pleasures stand out is the same. I would now read because here, on many occasions, it has been pointed out that the profession has not been consulted, that there is no agreement on this, so I would read one of the conclusions of the round table held by the Croatian Society of Family Doctors and see what they were looking for. Here, it says here that urgent changes and additions to the Health Protection Act are necessary, it is important to strengthen the role of a health care home that would play a role in planning, programming, maintaining the continuity of health care, that an existing lease system is needed to change, that it is necessary to pay for the services that do not go over the headline but that we have the price of road services and that certain preventive checks are paid in particular, that it is necessary to streamline consumption, that it is also limiting investment in control, drug consumption and this, as I have already said, combined payment method. Then, that education is also necessary, and here it is also proposed that the number of patients be reduced to thousands and thousands and 500. And now we would actually go back to the health development strategy again on primary health care to see now what of all the proposals proposed by the profession are similar suggestions from the doctor's union. We can see that the number of dedicated insurance companies will be reduced from a thousand to a thousand 500 when it comes to dental protection from 2,000 to 2,000, when it comes to children, from a thousand to 800 children per team. Then, and here it is mentioned that education is needed, meaning undergraduate and continuous education in primary and health care, that equipment needs to be restored using laboratory tests. Then, of course, go step by step with development and telemedicine. Then, just as I find it particularly important that doctors should focus on their patients by successfully referring to avoiding risk factors and implementing a healthy lifestyle. I think that's very important. One coordination is also promoted, one horizontal and vertical. I think we really miss it, that somehow we all work for ourselves doctors in offices, in certain departments in hospitals or in certain hospitals, that we have, as the minister pointed out, that we have repeated unnecessary tests, diagnostics and so on. Here it also advocates in the strategy groups... I think it's where it's possible that it's certainly good for rationalization, because of the effectiveness of health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also proposed to change the funding model... a team of family medicine so that part of the mains would be provided by one cold drive, and the rest would be tied to the number of insured persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It'd be the price of road service. I have to say that we already have a certain one, and we have one and most important shifts in that part. That we already have certain services that are paid so that patients do not have to go to specialist examinations or hospitals, which is certainly also related to their additional burden and material expenditures. Then, in particular, preventive and promotional, promotional activities will be paid. I am certainly pleased here that the position of home health is defined as a central institution, an institutional form of primary health care. That it means organising a health monitoring service for programming, planning, preventive, promotional activities and so on. Then it is also stressed that in fact the issue of health and health care is the issue of all of us. It can't be just a question of the Ministry, a question of the government. It's a question of every, every local community and every party and every individual. And establishing mental health and certainly amending the rules, amending the lease rule that needs to be harmonised. I would end up however, here I see that and time is running out, and I would like to point out once again that Croatian health care by the World Health Organization classification according to the mortality of children and adults from Group A to E is classified in the most prestigious group A together with other advanced countries such as Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France and so on. In the debates often it has been pointed out here in fact that the concern is whether, whether our population will have enough medicine as the only guarantee of health, and I would say that it is still... In 1768 he said: "The permanent preservation of health, the extension of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The experience of a deep age is in the wisely chosen rules of life and health, not in medicines." And I would point out that we need a complete health policy. This strategy is also done with that purpose. She's not cemented. In time, it must be complemented and changed. With this unique policy we need, we certainly need both preventive medicine and self-responsibility for health as a cornerstone of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66747	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear colleague Damir Caine's turn. But he's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's my dear fellow Turkish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66748	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, big separations to health care, we don't need to interpret it, we're all witnesses. Unreal consumption, even so, to support perhaps with only one detail, although we've heard about it before. I will just mention somewhere from an activity that is close to me that in Croatian healthcare is more spent on lipenica, these are anti-fatigue medicines, 12 times than on cytostatics. And we know what that means. We don't have to be sure of that. So that's where the hospital's indifference problems come from. Here I think that these are actually problems that have simply been imperatively decided that reform or strategy must be considered. Here by my court, that's why we need a strategy. Just because it's a large number where he can't exculpate a single man who sits here no matter who he belongs to. I'm saying that as president of the parent committee. My wish was and still, and I hope that this problem with a common pledge must actually be given one agreement that, in order to address this problem. Because that's when a sick man gets the most of it. I would certainly say something now about this strategy which, I think, is very positive. I'm saying this because I'm close, and that's because in my replica I've just pointed out the strengthening of preventive activity. Preventive activities, I'll look back on malignancies. And why on that? Because health analysts are already warning today that malignancies are first. Not more blood vessels, heart disease and so on, but malignancies. Unfortunately, they will be, dominated by this health problem all this time. You can imagine what a health problem this is, social, sociological so whatever it is you take from me. So this is what makes us all serious, and in some ways it takes away our right in any other way to think about it than it does what it requires. I won't talk, it's been heard here and about demagogy, politics. I think we just need to get everybody out of here. The fact that 60% of patients lately, namely 60% of systemic examinations, are less. It's something that must show us that we must return to early discovery. Because it's known very well that the best cure is early detection. Systematic examinations, it's the best cure. And I'm glad, I think all of us the fact that in this strategy are simply covered by almost all of the age, those risky age groups with that... a tumor where, where money will be provided and ensured, people will actually go through it every year or every two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's something that's very useful and very good. I'd like to say one more thing. A list of expensive medicines that appeared in the Croatian Institute this year I think it is a new step that does not burden the limit of hospitals and that it will, with the right indication, and that there will be no real indication of this because we have top experts. Next up for... oncological equipment which is also very sophisticated with expensive equipment, but which is necessary to treat an cancer patient, it is necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that in the last year, two, and what's going to happen in these two years is very significant, very good, and we could say one really good progress in treating cancer patients. Surely that an oncological patient for a part of medicine and an expert dealing with it is, he is his permanent concern of early detection and, unfortunately, where the waist can no longer and we must openly admit that it cannot, but we must also take care of such people. We can't leave them. We can't send them. We've all heard or so, we'll remember someone in the New Marof, someone in the Stanjevac, etc. Then it's simply not appropriate for a man, and that's why we have to be determined to simply find the opportunity and the money in that segment and to organize ourselves like that and to really be at the level of the task. I'm happy about another thing, and that's that I can say something that I haven't heard very much about the staff who deals with, about doctors who deal with this problem. These people are dedicated to the profession, dedicated to the man and wherever they can, so I won't miss out on them here either. I'm just going to tell you something, logo, basic logo in front of one facility, tumor clinic, and the christening two fishermen pulling the net. It symbolically means that fishermen drag all night long and unbelief and there is no moon, etc. And they don't know what they're going to catch, what they're going to pull, in the morning, what they're going to be in the net and what they're going to do in those houses. They're investing a lot against this bad disease, and they're giving it all away, and they're not sure how much it's going to work. That's not what they're responsible for. It's clear to all of us, because the medical profession, or oncologically, is at the level that it's at, but for now with 64% success, and for a man, it's worth it, so if one percent work. Here, I think, I hope that what's going on in oncology, and that we're coming up with encouraging promises that modern technology, we're aware of all this with new centuries that soon, with this kind of human effort that I wanted to describe here, that we're going to be talking about oncological disease as a chronic disease. God forbid we wait too long! Surely, in this strategy, the deadlines and the bearers of the activity to give us somewhere to expect that next year when we argue that we will know exactly who is not or who has fulfilled his task. I think it's something that's very, very important. And I think that this strategy is actually a principle policy, and for all the laws that will come out of it, which will follow it will give one whole and I think it will benefit most those where there is no guarantee, and that is our patients present and future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66749	Thank you, dear fellow Turkish. It's time for the esteemed colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66750	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So when we talk today about the National Health Development Strategy proposal for 2006-2011, we must first of all start with the fact that Croatian citizens, what they think about health care at this time in Croatia. According to public opinion surveys that I have here, over 51% of Croatian citizens are unhappy with the current health system in the Republic of Croatia. By the way, it's only 18% satisfied. That's enough to start with. Second. It is a survey of a famous one agency that has been done in Croatia, and 43% of Croatian citizens believe that the last few years the health system is getting worse, not that it is better, or 38% thinks it is as bad as it was and only 17% of Croatian citizens believe that something on this plan is working. Therefore, we must go from this to see if what is in this National Strategy is in the proposal whether it is, whether it is the answer to this factual state, to how Croatian citizens think about today's health system in Croatia. Furthermore, Croatian citizens also believe that health reform at the moment means according to this and the strategy that it moves only for money. So over 51% thinks it's to save, not improve. So that's pretty dangerous to say, but unfortunately so. The poll shows that they think, so it's just about saving. People are ready to pay more in the survey to get the quality that new medicines and treatments mean for them, to reduce waiting for diagnostic tests and that hospitals are better equipped. What is positive in this survey is the only thing citizens say, which is that they believe in quality in the healthcare system in healthcare workers. So that's the essential factor of the starting base how and how that part can be implemented. So we have one important factor, and that's trust in healthcare professionals, in healthcare workers. And now there's this problem of how and how to implement it. It is obvious that here it is going to break all costs, debt in a certain way to the burden of patients, on the burden of Croatian citizens and such settings do not guarantee that it will be implemented, while on the other hand we have data and official related how and in what way the state does not refer to how it should apply, which means that it is legally taking measures to collect what belongs to the state budget. The data is clear to you. You know them yourself that the gray economy eats in Croatia from 12 billion to 15 billion kuna a year. Today, I was startled by the data that was presented at a press conference of independent trade unions in Croatia that have data and estimates that only last year TDR cheated the country by 2.5 billion kunas by cigarette smuggling, not talking about the years since '91. To this day, what a fraud it is. So, with that amount of 2 and a half billion kuna, all these various debts that exist in the county and hospitals could be settled. And if the state of mechanisms does what needs to be done, then it can also pick up what is both the goal and the purpose of filling the state budget. But unfortunately, through such data that we would like in today's debate to do as we should welcome. We will just cross over and it will continue to be only in the papers, and no one who is obliged will take the necessary measures to ensure that what belongs to the state and what Croatian citizens expect and expect means that they get a better system of health care. We all know, we also have relatives and friends and neighbors and acquaintances who now see it coming when someone has to go through certain examinations. We know for ourselves, especially for people living outside Zagreb, let's say I can talk there are representatives from both my constituency and my other constituency. People must, for example, go to the Bjelovar-Bylogorje County for all to get special examinations of moss in the hospital in Bjelovar, and live in Gareshnica, both in Chazma and in the Grubišna polje, and such is the same situation in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County. And by the time it's time to do a specialist review that we know is how long and how long it's been waiting for that variant to happen that this finding that he's done before has become obsolete. So it is constantly spinning, spinning in circles, and there is no definitive diagnosis, that is, to provide therapy. And that's, that's the problem that my colleague said nicely about that prevention. And finally, I would suggest one thing that we should have in both these strategies and all the laws, as in Austro-Hungarian. Austro-Hungarian had the next system. When a legal proposal was made, before it was passed, they had in the ministry, their bodies of an official who had been written but was not, for example, written, he could read and write, and then when some legal text came they first gave it to the official to read it. If that text was clear to him, then he was just going in. That's what we'd have to get into with this right now. So now take the variant, give this to the Croatian pensioner, there are a lot of letters here that people are complaining about health care. So if they understand that part, and they don't understand, then we can bring it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66751	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague really does speak and it is evident that he has no experience in health care, what his hints indicate. But one of his alleged outdated specialist findings is no longer worth anything, and then that doctor can't give any more therapy or anything, I mean it's real. There are no out-of-date specialist findings. He's who he is, and the patient if he needs to, then he's urgent, he'll be urgently examined and he'll get the appropriate medication. Do not belittle colleagues with outdated specialist findings that do not exist at all as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66753	Thank you very much. It's my dear colleague Jurkin's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66754	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I've been going through my waiting room for years, and then I've thought very often about what your patients are thinking and what they expect from me when they get into my office. And then I noticed that first they were expecting some kind of gentle tone, then they were expecting a smile, and then they expect me to have time to talk to them. And what's going on in Europe? In Europe, you felt it was important to doctors. So I read one declaration from 2005 and 2006 and one in Stocholm, and the other in Brussels where the Spanish delegation insisted that a regulation be adopted, that conditions be created that allow doctors to allow each patient to give appropriate time to provide health care quality and to ensure that this service is at a certain level. But in order for European doctors to be voted in the assembly, this was the only proposal that needed to be completed. And it will certainly be done by Spanish doctors with the help of our European delegations. So that's the right time, that's what patients and doctors in Europe do. And now we go back to that patient of mine in the waiting room. What does he expect? Well, he's expecting exactly the right time. But he expects the ECG to be done to him, of course, if necessary, to sew the wound if necessary and to do all of this in that infirmary. And that's exactly what this strategy does. It retains the headline, but further stimulates the doctor to perform certain procedures that are additionally paid. With the strategy thinking about reducing the share of the head start-up, and increasing the share of mechanisms and full service. That's how we're gonna reduce patient references to specialists, because now it looks like every third patient is going to a specialist. But also in this way we will open the time for the doctor to conduct those systematic or preventive examinations of which the colleague... I spoke. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's right, he'll be happy with health care, but he'll be happy with patients. I remember a long time ago when I had interns and when I told them every time you go to your infirmarys you always have to get out of the infirmary satisfied, not frustrated. Because that's how you're going to live easy in life, and at the same time you're going to love your profession. However, I must admit that I am still in constant conflict today between needs, demands, and possibilities. And when I want to solve a problem, and I'm facing a limited amount, then I try to solve it either by increasing the amount or using the existing amount rationally. This translated into this strategy means increasing the gross national income of $6,000 138 in 2005. And only then is the rationalization that can now be under way, that is, reasonable spending, not restrictive. That's where you get one problem in medicine. There's no word for "or," there's just a word for "and." So you need to buy both EKG, and RTG and CT and magnetic resonance. We have to have everything, because the patient's health is the law. And that is why it is generally accepted above all that basic health insurance must all have equal, and rationalization must be achieved medically, we must respect that medical ethics must be the most important thing in all of this. I believe as many colleagues have been here so far in health care. And I think they will maintain and improve this health care. Politicians, or we here, we will pass laws, and ethics and code let doctors do. That is why I am pleased that he is now in front of the Medical Chamber and the Croatian Doctor's Assembly before the signing of the Code of Medical Ethics and... where it stands, the doctor is honored to commit his life-orientation and profession to human health, the doctor should respect the rights of patients considering... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your right and your primary concern. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where I look forward to being a doctor. However, the health system is overcrowded with unnecessary searches. That's what our vice president of the Parliament was talking about. The strategy predicts that these problems can be solved by further specialising the family doctor, filling that project with 1693 that each family doctor must finish at least three years of specialization by type A, B or C, depending on what year of life he enters specialization. We will probably talk about this a lot more when we enter the European Union. And that's where we also got the one in... the European doctors I was talking about, who managed to preserve the independence of health care not to be subject to the laws of the market but remains until further notice of each individual state. But to go back to that patient of mine who's at the doctor's now waiting to be prescribed a drug against, say, he's got fat. That's where I've been trying a little bit. So he's got high cholesterol... The doctor is in a dilemma that's supposed to be the cure for his surgery. [[You don't understand.]] Namely anti-fat medicines called satins not to prefer one of the manufacturers now, I've counted on the HZZ list there are 12. Their price is from 12 to 60 kuna daily. I want my patient to get the best medicine. I'm getting to that list of medications right now. I must be helped by the committee, and that is also the recommendation of the World Health Organization. She says, generic drugs are by their effectiveness equal to the original and... the patent is protected until a given date and the manufacturer dictates the price, and after that the date of the medicinal product must be cheaper because it is subject to competition. [[You don't understand.]] And now that commission is talking about the effectiveness of the drug in the tender goes with the price and as far as I was able to talk to the Croatian Health Insurance Office, the price of such satin could be around 15 kuna. And now I'm no longer in the dilemma. I've got a good cure, I've got a cheap cure, I'm not in a dilemma about this. And that's why I think this list is good. [[You don't understand.]] We're going back to the patient. He seems from the chair asking a doctor who I can contact when we're gone, when you're not in the office because you're on vacation. That solves this strategy again. The strategy here offers a solution. There's a group practice. There is a set of voluntary experts of the same nature to address health problems effectively in a particular area. So a patient can solve his problem in quality even when his chosen doctor is out of service. The patient stops again, now my red light is on, and I have to, he asks me for a home of health, I answer him that we will have a home of health, we need a city as big as Velika Gorica, we just have to lower our powers from the county, our founding rights at the city and community level. The patient's still asking me a question, I'd keep talking, but this is bright, so I'll just say it in the end. I'd like to go on a house call right now, but I'd better get out of here first because that's my job, so I'll say the next one. Now I'm thinking. It's going to be a lot of work in this whole system, because the health system doesn't tolerate jumping changes. I am glad that I have kept calm, because we need this in a further strategy when expenditures need to be equal to revenues, and service users do not want to change habits. But we have one human intellectual and emotional capacity. So we have enough power and brains to succeed, but we need to develop a human relationship in society, and here I think as little debate as possible in this House, and I am also thinking that today's scientific knowledge is not the last truth of this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66755	Thank you, dear colleague. You have one replica, dear colleague Šoljic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66756	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Jurkin said, "I am always in conflict between the needs of demands and possibilities." That is exactly what moved me to discuss one aspect of health care and health care problems that were not spoken of here today, and what I find very important because I have seen it in the conversation with many patients and doctors, and it is actually that patients often in their demands are very unrealistic and in fact unargumentedly asking a doctor for a certain search, a certain set of shots that do not, which do not agree with their diagnosis, with their problems, and doctors because of the problem that patients can say at all times I will not, I will take my chart from you because you do not give me what I ask of you. So I would pray from this place that changes to certain laws should be made to protect doctors that they do not always have to be in fear of what patients will do if they do not give him some expensive search for which there is no indication because we are constantly talking about taking care of preventive health, that it is necessary to give the greatest emphasis on prevention. However, if we allow patients to behave in this way, for doctors to be in a job-saving situation, for keeping the number of patients in relation to restrictions to give expensive tests that are unargumented, I don't think it will take us far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66757	Replication response, dear colleague Jurkin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66758	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your discussion. Look, I've been reading a mini-ante over there from Dubrovnik-Neretva County these days. In that poll, it's the following. That doctors and healthcare professionals in 90% of cases are satisfied with their... despite... The difficulties you've caused. [[You don't understand.]] And I'm so glad. You know what, one more thing from that dissatisfaction, the doctor can happen to us. Look today in Germany there are plenty of doctors, and in Britain and England there are few doctors and there are used charter flights for doctors from Germany on Friday to return and earn 2 to 3,000 euros and then live better than in Germany itself. I'm afraid of something else. I'm afraid there will be unfair competition from the Eastern countries. This unfair competition is, look what counterpart Kajo Bucan said, he said, that unfair competition can bring us this, we now have a study, all colleges, 3,000 500 doctors. These, Serbia and this eastern part, they have 13,000. If they run into Croatia, unfair competition, I think they'll lower the quality of health care, I mean, they really wouldn't want to experience it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66759	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. Dear colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after this long debate today on the Health Development Strategy for the next 5 years, I have to say at the beginning that I will support this Strategy, and now I will explain why. This strategy actually comes from the fact that the recording of the situation has been made and that this picture has shown that the health care system has its good foundations, but that there are also its shortcomings that require that something in the system is changing. Good things were already mentioned today on several occasions, but I'd just like to remind myself of one. With all the criticism of the health system, it's a system that actually solves 99% of the cases on its own. According to the statistics we have in the Croatian Institute, which is those relating to sending patients outside Croatia, so what we cannot solve for ourselves is below 1% of hospital treatment. So, only 600, about 600 cases a year go to treatment abroad and these are mostly children related to cardiovascular and neurosurgery problems. So, the system as such has got, has good foundations and as is said, it is also by the World Health Organization classified in Group A. Regardless of the financial difficulties it has. What's good about this strategy and which suggests that it's still designed one development of health care over the next five years is actually based on me on 3 key things. It's prevention, it's raising the efficiency of the system and it's sustainability of the system, which is very important. All that talk, I'd just remind you of what's important in prevention. We had to prevent more than 30 years ago one action to detect cancer of the uterus which is very good and successful, I would say, vessels and then we were famous. It's that famous papal test. We are now in the process of early breast cancer detection and are preparing for the next year and colon. These are malignancies that have recently shown the greatest incidence. And that's where he's headed in the right direction. The same thing as speech, diabetes as the basis of all these cardiovascular diseases and the problems that we have here, therefore, and that part is being invested health funds both last year and this year. So, to invest in this national programme of cardiovascular diseases, therefore, intervention cardiology has produced good results. And I think that prevention accent is good, and it needs to be continued in this direction as it is drawn. The second thing, what is related to the efficiency of the system, that means quality control and raising the quality of the system itself. Through several elements, that was said. I would like to say that it is important that the entire system is finally connected to information once and that the data we need in time to detect malignancies, in order to detect in time all the diseases that show the trend of growth and that we can respond effectively to them, we need to have a good information system and he, I would say, is placed in the right place to go first with primary protection, and that then the hospitals through pilot projects eventually connect into a single network. The other thing is that we need to standardise procedures. So, that many things happen unnecessaryly, that through categorization and accreditation hospitals determine the level of work of each health institution according to the number of patients, i.e. insurance undertakings gravitating in this area. According to the fact that it is going to a politic development, there is no impression that everything can only be solved in one centre and in Zagreb. So, that we have a regional development that already has its own tradition, that we have Osijek, and Split, and Rijeka and Zagreb normally as such centres and that this setting goes in this direction according to that polilitrism. Another important thing is that what is important is the sustainability of the system. How to keep him from entering a financial collapse that has been mentioned many times today. He is not, the truth God, the way he presents himself through the media. Data are something different, but what would be important to point out is that we have already passed several stages to pay for a service to find a better model. We had a so-called. The blue book, paying in hospitals the price of times service, so we've introduced a PPT P procedure, so now we're going to introduce one, according to experts, something better model. That's the so-called. The DTS system, but what is most important and in primary protection we need to think about a different way of paying. This way of headline clean through the mains proved to be not good and that we in order to increase the efficiency of the primary work, we had to practically specifically stimulate the payment of these systematic checks that I thought were to be done on our own. So it's something to think about in the future that not in primary pay is all through the mains but that one part should be paid through IPTP or some other procedure. So, not only is the number of charts determined to pay but also some work to show it, and then we can say that primary protection will work more, and that hospitals will be less burdened. As long as we don't do this, it would be just one wrong campaign, yelling that we're going to switch everything to the primary. Because that story about, that all the work would do primary protection, she had England. When Blair came to power then he saw that their concept was not good and then he found that they needed hospitals, and he was in his program when he came to power in the first term promoting that he would build 200 new hospitals in England. Thus, we need to find a good balance between hospital and primary health care. We don't have too many hospitals and I'm not up to it to talk about some hospitals being shut down. We have an appropriate number of hospitals, an appropriate number and sick beds. However, what needs to be considered in the future is this approach to treat most of the patients polyclinically and to deal with as many problems as possible through day - to - day surgery, i.e. day hospitals. But that doesn't mean we have to go back to one construction hospital to adjust them, so they all look like our Dubrava Clinical Hospital. It's just impossible. Daily hospital and one-day surgery does not mean a new department, but means organization of work within the already existing hospital. Therefore, it is possible to achieve this and now in the conditions that we have. The second thing that is important in this attempt to sustain the system is that finally the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which is now in the Treasury, is drawn into the budget as an independent institution, insurance as it is everywhere in the world and it is well placed. What caused the most interference and somehow the polemics are two lists of drugs. Obviously, this free list of medicines is not well understood. It'll have all the drugs on it. It's not just the generics. So these are medicines that experts predicted would cover all diseases. And the third thing is that it is very important to strengthen the level of responsibility as well as the patients themselves of insurance to safeguard their health, so to all in a series of health institutions from primary to hospital specialists to department heads and eventually to directors who must be responsible for the functioning of the hospital both professionally and financially. Therefore, the potential responsibility, I think, is very important because it is stressed in this project that payment is being introduced. But it's not even declared as a percentage, it's just indicated that we're moving towards that model. But in order to even talk about the patient's payment, we first need to seriousise the current system as it is. So this financial liability must be maximum, and when we learn to manage finance in an adequate way, then we can only ask the patient to pay something. We have already taken some steps on this road and shown that trend since the rise in consumption that was in early 2004 and it was 24% compared to the period a year before it was stopped and it was reduced to about 4%. I mean, it's a good indicator and it says that the system, however critical it is, is still doing something and going in that direction to control the costs of health care. Therefore, these three important settings in this strategy, which is prevention, efficiency and sustainability of the system, I think they are well set up and that is why I am giving them support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66761	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. It's my fellow Stazic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's time for a respected colleague, Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the opening part of the National Health Development Strategy, it is concluded that the non-rational organisation of health care, poor control of health costs and long-term uncontrollable growth in health care consumption have brought the overall health costs to the top limit that the Croatian economy could bear so that extensive and deep reform of the health care system is necessary and, of course, it is a finding that we can all agree on. It is these days that we are witnessing that the entire health system has begun to collapse and while the ruling cannot agree on who is responsible for this condition, because some claim that such a condition is being blamed by hospital directors, and others believe that the system is at fault for that time the health care is looming in debt. Instead of a meaningful and systematic solution to the problem in health, the Government supports I would say the status quo and this National Health Development Strategy far from calling it a comprehensive and profound reform of the health system. In order for any reform to begin, the existing situation needs to be established. Beyond that, define the objectives that we want to achieve with reform policy, and on this basis offer solutions in which objectives will be set and achieved. The proposed strategy identified the existing situation. The dominant problems are highlighted. The health status of the Croatian population has been established. In this proposal, the strategy, unlike the first proposal we discussed in the Assembly, is given deadlines for implementation and operators, but lacks what is most important, and this is not highlighted by what is being introduced or changed in the existing system in order to achieve the desired objective, and this is the aim of improving and financial stability of the health system, except by making a significant contribution to all processes to informing the system. When it comes to economic stabilisation, there is a new way of financing the system, but that part is not worked out in a way that would paint the future system except that it will complete the process of categorisation and accreditation of hospitals. When we say a strategy, the concept itself already implies that such a kind of document must answer the question of how, and the document that is almost no longer in front of us answers that question. Therefore, we can say that this strategy is a taste of good wishes and the intention to change the existing situation without a doubt, but how this change will be realized is not quite clear. Special attention in the strategy is given to primary health care which should address 70 to 80% of health problems. However, the lease process that began in 1994 developed the concept of so-called The printer's system and since its introduction to this day has shown many shortcomings. Therefore, with all the measures proposed in primary health care, it is not expected that this organised primary health care will solve 70 to 80% of all health needs of the population. The primary protection is literally left to itself through the privatisation and disbanding of health homes, is fragmented into a number of small unrelated units, health homes are left without the necessary medical and diagnostic equipment and the PZZ has literally turned into a recipe-writing service or instructions for polyclinical specialist examinations. As of 1995, the number of references to specialist reviews has been monitored and it has been seen to increase from year to year. According to the 2003 data, general, or family medicine, doctors wrote 4.6% of the instructions for specialist examinations more than a year earlier, and compared to 1995, the number increased by more than a third. All this says is that general family medicine instead of being the backbone of the entire health system has actually become passive health care. Privatisation of primary healthcare through the lease system is one of the main problems that needs to be resolved in order for the system to achieve what are the assumptions that primary health care could address 80% of all health needs of the population. However, this strategy does not provide for this wrong step in the JHA system to be corrected in any way. Although we are talking about the need to save in health, and no one doubts that saving is necessary then precisely in the process of putting primary health care in that place in the system that belongs to it and belongs to all of us again, reminding us of the protection of the printers' home model health. So right here we have great opportunities for internal savings, and that would be one of the important guidelines of future reform, and not as it has been a practice so far that the holes that are becoming in the health budget are getting bigger and bigger trying only to patch across the back of citizens, better said through their wallets. The Health Development Strategy for 2006 to 2011 concludes, among other things, that in Croatia there are areas with very low territorial availability of hospitals and that the southern part of Dalmatia between Dubrovnik and Split, where some 140 thousand inhabitants live, is more than 40km to the nearest hospital, so that the majority of the population travels for more than an hour to the first general or clinical hospital, and more than half of that number must travel for two hours or more. In island parts of all southern Dalmatia, this phenomenon is even more pronounced. Split-Dalmatia County is preceded by a population of more than 40km from the nearest hospital. In the entire county, we have one clinical hospital and a county health home whose functioning is burdened by numerous problems. Debts of home health are growing year by year and then trying to find a way out of this situation among other things, and so the quality of service provision is even more subdued, so according to the latest decisions of the home health administration, laboratory and radiological services are abolished in certain exposures in the afternoon, and I would like to remind you that, among other things, it is about cities that are extremely touristic areas. So much for the quality of providing health services. All of this clearly speaks about the availability of healthcare in this area, and I would like to remind you that the key features of health policy in Croatia are the availability of healthcare, justice, efficiency, quality of healthcare and ensuring the safety of citizens in the use of healthcare. For this very reason, and with the aim of dispensing pressure on a clinical hospital that is only one in the area from Sibenik to Dubrovnik and with the aim of improving the availability of healthcare, it should seek to strengthen the role of individual health homes that have opportunities and, of course, the conditions to raise medical services to a higher level, such as: Health homes in Sinj, Makarska or Imotski. The development of these health homes in the long term should be directed towards municipal hospitals. In this way, a better quality network of health institutions would be achieved and the availability of healthcare services for each individual would be much better, and in addition, such a concept of further development of health care would certainly contribute to more significant savings of resources, because if time and money were calculated, patients would spend going to the nearest hospital, in this case to Split, for different checks and procedures then clearly that patients would be much better, and for the whole system of course much more rewarding that part of these checks or procedures could be resolved in their place of residence or as close as possible to the place of residence. The example has a lot to do with this, and I will only list the latest problem facing diabetics by applying the new rule of law conditions and how to exercise their rights to orthopedic and other aids. I don't have time to go into all the illogicalities of that rule, so I'm going to look at only one problem, which is that their blood glucose control tips are no longer prescribed by the family doctor, but according to the new rule, it's for the interns, the diabetics and the procedure to go through four times a year. Because a specialist of such a profile is missing in health homes, patients are forced to travel to Split. This in itself makes it clear in the light of my claim that health homes should be strengthened, and individuals who are estimated to have the conditions to develop towards small communal hospitals. This concept of further development should be clearly highlighted in the Health Development Strategy. And in the end, maybe a few more words about the human problem. According to the 2004 data, there are 2.3 doctors in Croatia, which is a lot compared to for example. with Albania, in which a thousand people come 1.4 doctors, compared to the Italian average of 5.7 doctors seem to be small. The number of nurses per thousand inhabitants lags almost 60% behind European Union standards. The fact is, some colleagues have said that the interest in the study of medicine belongs to us from year to year, which is not surprising if we keep in mind the longevity of studies. Young doctors who just end up having a hard time getting to work, even harder to specialize, and I am afraid that what some colleagues before me have suggested that we will actually meet very quickly with a lack of necessary staff in healthcare and that is one problem that this strategy should also give an answer to how to deal with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66763	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66764	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative said that the primary health care was completely destroyed by privatising and disbanding health homes. Health homes no longer exist anywhere in the world, it's an institution that survived in the world, privatisation was made under a rule that allowed for worse results than before privatisation, simply returning these offices to health homes. Why didn't the previous government do it? Because the availability indicators of primary healthcare after the privatisation are based on the lease are incomparably better quality than before. This was published in international relevant magazines and followed by a scientific project that monitored the privatisation. So, the homes of health have survived, they are nowhere in the world to be found and should not be returned to them, only by reasonable dynamics to end them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66765	And the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66766	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Jagoda Matic used the term of home health by talking about certain health problems in the region of Dalmatia, i.e. in Split-Dalmatia County. It is not simply true because the homes of health, there is only one home of health, and not homes in the plural, and you need to know that this thing happened when it comes to their fusion during the former coalition government. At that time they were fusiond and were harsh reactions from Sinj, Imotski, from other areas of Dalmatian Zagorec, precisely because many of us believe that the activities and health care activities carried out by these dominotes were carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66767	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66768	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Citizens of every country, as well as Croatia, are the most sensitive when it comes to health and availability of health services. With pension insurance, health care is actually quite a large generator of deficits of the state budget, and indeed there is a need to make certain turns or reform this system in order to actually achieve financial stability but not endangering human health and the ability and availability of health services. However, it seems to me that the strategy that we are discussing today and that we discussed in almost the same way a short time ago as the previous reading does not actually provide answers to that. The strategy is more suited to two conditions. One of them is also mentioned in the opening part. In the summer of 2004, when a memorandum was signed with the International Monetary Fund, it is there that the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to reduce health costs in the budget, i.e. to increase participations or so on. private spending in health care. The strategy itself speaks extensively about how health care is not sufficiently involved in screening, or in future negotiations with the European Union, but it is said in one paragraph that it is important to implement a reform or to develop a health strategy so that European access funds can be used. And on that basis is actually a strategy which, like economics, is not really a strategy but is called in the economy as a framework. It seems to me that there's a framework strategy here too, just actually we got a frame but we didn't get a picture. It is often said here that even in the strategy it is said that this private spending in health care in Croatia is about 1%, that it is far lower than it should be or should be in other developed countries. However, let us start with the health funding system in Croatia. In fact, all employees pay a health contribution and the strategy itself says that about 80% of healthcare funds are collected through a health contribution. There is then additional health care, then there is additional health insurance, there are participations, and when we look at one part of our citizens, so employees who pay for a health contribution actually pay for a health care service. To what extent an increase in participation should be introduced in Croatia at this time, an administrative fee or a fee that we introduced a year ago, a reduction in the right to reimburse the costs of transport, as well as those of the sick disabled children who are in one segment of them where families are leaving and therapy in a difficult material situation. There really can't talk about this strategy having social notes. That she's in one part politicized I'm going to try to prove it to you through this segment that's talking about how we finance health, so the current situation where we're going back to what was six years ago. So, it's said how much debt or loans from 2000-2003 were paid in 2004 and we don't say anything about what it was in 2005. We see from the strategy that in 2004, at the end of clinical institutions, hospitals and others had almost 2 billion kunas of commitment. We don't know what it was in 2005 and we're back I say six years back. This certainly is not a good starting point for us to be able to solve problems, financial problems in a long-term strategy. In fact, there are also problems with the existence of double property. So, clinical hospitals are state-owned, the state has to take care if they achieve losses or do not pay until the general hospitals have landed in the possession of regional self-government that is simply not able to maintain the system with small financial resources, and there are not only different conditions for treating patients or users but we also have a different level of equipment. It should be said that in the 1990s, when general hospitals were transferred to county property that both depreciation and virtually almost until 2000, some hospitals had no possibility of getting equipment. I'm going to say this in the example of a centuries-old general hospital that received an embarrassing 80,000 kuna from the state budget for the purchase of equipment. Of course, this county has been charged to the maximum to ensure minimal equipment and that today when losses in general hospitals stem from the funding system, not how rationally or irrationally they operate, their owners are unable to settle these dubiosises. And when we say that there is a need to increase the share of private spending in health care, then in conditions where Croatia, which in some estimates, has achieved a gross social product per capita of 7 thousand euros, where average pensions are somewhere around 1,000 kuna, where the average salary below 5 thousand kuna is really difficult to speak and almost irresponsiblely, socially irresponsiblely irresponsiblely, that citizens, patients, should be more participated in costs. This strategy doesn't say anything that in the future, other than increasing the costs paid by patients will actually increase the funding in health care. Nothing is said here about economic growth that should be such that it could cover increased health costs. In fact, in these last two years, we have had a significant decline in social gross product from more than 5.6 and 5.3 to only 3.8 and 4.3% of annual growth, that even in projections we don't have any more growth rates then there's really no chance. There is no other way out than to actually increase health costs by compensating or reducing services or by increasing the participations paid by citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66769	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66770	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It would be much easier to discuss a document called a strategy and this National Health Development Strategy if we also had suggestions on how to resolve the current financial crisis in healthcare. That moment, the strategy would be far more realistic. Because at the moment, the existing accumulated financial problems need to be resolved. There's no record of that document. Today talking about the strategy is very difficult. Why is it so hard? So why is the good part of this strategy related to how to solve organisational problems? How do you resolve investment? All this without a financial solution to the problem, I think it will be very, very difficult and questionable efficiency. And, of course, for some of us in this document, the most interesting part is certainly the part that talks about how we finance. In addition to the description of the situation, we have no suggestions how will this solve the strategy? Therefore, the financial problem has not been solved, it is current and in the strategy, we are at least talking about how to continue to finance health. What is characteristic of the way of financing Croatian health care? It is characteristic that 4 and a half million Croatians are financed by a million 350 thousand employees. That's why the worker is funding our health care. And that's the backbone. Why? Because that worker pays 80% of the contributions. Two problems for anyone who wants to look into the facts. The first problem, which is that the worker doesn't have a big salary, that the worker doesn't get. That we barely came to 400, 4300 kuna and that is too little pay to finance the health care of all Croatian citizens. On the other hand, all the objections we have why the Croatian economy is uncompetitive we have a message: because you have a high labour price. And the price of work also makes that health contribution. And not just that. If we also observe our discussions in the Croatian Parliament, the biggest problem is the pension system. And the pension system is still a system that says that we will have to resolve pensions of the current pensioners, but also pensions of the future, since we have not completed the process I would say pension reforms and insurance savings for pension. Therefore, the question remains why do we not open the topic of whether the contribution to Croatia is a sustainable thesis for health financing? This material doesn't talk about it at all. We don't open a story about it, and we don't solve the fundamental problem of Croatian health. How to finance it. The second part of our basic problem is what we heard from my colleague. And that is one of the biggest problems and the European Commission's objection is: You have too much health costs in gross national income and that is somewhere between 8 and a half to 9% of gross social product. At a certain age, almost 10%. Now the question remains: are we really spending a lot or is the base small? Or is our national income small? And I doubt anyone in this room wants to say that we're very involved because we spend a lot. No, I don't. Because we have a little foundation. Our national income is simply too low. And any solution that someone proposes to reduce the cost of gross national income in such a way that we reduce consumption will not be able to find a solution to this crisis. The solution to this crisis is how to raise gross national income? Or how the rate of growth is greater than 6%? And those are the solutions we should be talking about. The personal health minister should have pointed out the problem in particular. And he should have pointed out problems in the economy that are also responsible for the current financial moments, but I would say the future problem of Croatian health care. Health costs will fall if we can raise the rate above 6%. Yes, of course. For the first time now we hear it in this strategic framework that we can't have income less than 6%. And these are topics we didn't want to talk about. For 3 years in this House, we have been constantly opening up the topic of development, development, development. It is development that will solve the health problem. The battle for development, where should we invest, in what way? What will bring us at least 6% of economic growth to have fewer problems in Croatia... This strategy does not contain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Minister of Health, who is about to seek a stronger economic situation, address the economic situation because it will be easier for him to solve health problems in one single word, did not mention it in our strategy. And of course that's why we can't agree on this strategy. Because when we go to calculate how much in the net amount or in the amount of money we invest in Croatian health, then we see that we are lagging behind Europe. We're behind. We must therefore raise our investments in health care. These rises in health investments without the growth of gross national or gross social product will not be possible. And yet there's always going to be a problem because we're going to have deficits because we spend too much on such a low base, on such a low base. Therefore, the suggestion is to the Proposer, these are topics that must be addressed. These are simply the problems that the one who worked this strategy had to look back on. That's when we get to the third economic position. This is the position which is the average pension, what is the average salary? And the average pension and the average salary we put into me would say a correlation with an average basket or a union basket, whatever we want. And what do we get then? That a four-member family can't live on one salary, it needs at least one-and-a-half salaries. And we won't even talk about pensions. And then where are the answers? So on such an average pension, on such an average salary any burden on Croatian citizens for cost, direct payment of health costs is an unsustainable thesis. Therefore, we have a low standard of citizens to further burden them with additional financing of health care. As long as she can't live on one salary, we won't be able to propose solutions that would burden Croatia's citizens for health costs. And these are the things that had to be present in the economic analyses of this strategy, these are things that would help us all to try to find certain solutions how to solve tomorrow's health care, how to try to find funding and give an answer whether really with such low wages and pensions we can go to an increase in private participation of citizens and above 1% who complain that we should sort out in some way. The question remains in this strategy and why it is too politicised. It is simply a little deeper reading that the writers of the strategy deal with the period 2000-2003, rather than the period of the three-year current government. It just means that we want to turn this document into a political document, send political messages and find excuses for failure in these three years. It's a sad thing when someone who writes like that gets the title that it's a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66771	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66772	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what I think, my colleague Linic put up a good problem with whether a million and 350 employees can hold the health burden on their backs. Well, I'm sure he can't. And that's something we've been pulling since there's a Croatian state, but it's a model that's been inherited and that's simply that in all these 15 years of the Croatian state we haven't found a better model than that. Access can be different. The contributions can be reduced, but then again from another pocket, from tax, etc. to finance. There are mixed systems. However, I would like to see such proposals in a debate like this and come from your side, because when you tap into that basket of services, or when you say that funding is what it is, regardless of the high percentage of gross national income is not enough to finance all needs of health care. Now, from someone and in some direction, we have to go. We have here in this strategy pointed the way to a model of payment. But it's not about how much, it's about one appropriate percentage that would be adequate for our citizens' pay opportunities, which you said yourself, it's not big. Therefore, this dynamic is not determined to be next year. It's just indicated in the future. However, it can also be discussed about another model that one part of the tax comes across, so this payment can be delayed for another period when the market opportunities of our society are different. However, this model of payment exists everywhere in Europe and we simply cannot close our eyes that it is. We pointed it out, but we didn't say it was imperative, did we?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66773	Replica response, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66774	I thank my colleague Bačić for the replica, because I want to make it very clear that for the SDP and there are no bigger dilemmas at the moment when we are thinking about where the new sources of health funding are. And it is evident that it is property and property taxes that will need to take over more and more the role of health funding. Why? Because we estimate that inside the salary, the problem of pension contributions will be very important. On the other hand, lower wages in gross amount to make the Croatian economy deliver better results and make us move again more competitively to contribute to health care. And these methods whether a contribution or a tax is increasingly visible to me at this point are also seen for only seeking real taxation of taxes and, i.e. property. There's still a question of what assets. Is it a question of immobilized assets, of non-functional assets? I'd say the ones that are huge, etc. These are the topics we should be discussing. Unfortunately, this strategy doesn't push us into that problem at all, nor that we're trying to talk about it. And then it remains an individual debate, unfortunately or there are indications of these discussions. And that's what we do until we solve it and we see how it's possible to do it, we won't solve the health problem either. We'll just pile up our losses. Because the pay won't hold. The salary cannot withstand problems accumulated in health care and problems accumulated in the pension system. And on the other hand, let's be honest, citizens won't be able to pay for it personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66775	Thank you. Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am disappointed when the opposition begins its debate with the words catastrophic situation in health, disaster, decay, etc., as people who are obviously not in the health care system say and don't know him enough. Because patients who come to medical institutions get full medical care, get medicines, and health care workers get paid. Many of you criticise this health strategy of ours and say another colleague, Linic, that it is also embarrassing to call it a strategy. And then I don't know what this 2000 strategy would be called that we had a chance to see. The health system is expected to be accessible to anyone who needs it. However, there is no country in the world that can provide health care to its citizens according to the possibilities of modern medicine. However, we support this strategy because it directs the direction in which extensive reforms must be carried out in our health, and before that, it will record the state of the population by setting targets, measures and deadlines. I don't think we should be getting political points here but really find one common consensus, because everyone we work for is working in the interest of our patients. I must admit that, at my local level, the Bjelovar-Biogorje County before that consensus is seen rather than unfortunately in the Croatian National Assembly, and believe me, the last report that was held at the discussion of the County Assembly for the operations of medical institutions in 2005 was so good that everyone simply realized that we had to find a common consensus, one common approach, open up, see where the problems were, rationalise what was possible in health but that all of this began from the county from the board of directors and from hospital management when it came to hospital. This is an optimistic news where it is obvious that everyone in the field is thinking differently than it is, or what can be concluded from this debate today in the Croatian Parliament. We are aware of the irrational organisation, we are aware of poor health controls, quality controls, long-term uncontrollable growth in health care consumption and according to World Bank data, the total debt in healthcare in 2005 grew 1 million, 100 million per month. When we talk about hospital restrictions, then it is clear that the Croatian economy and the state budget cannot bear these limits more. Health costs are growing everywhere in the world, the population is getting old. According to the World Health Organization in the Republic of Croatia in 2003, the life expectancy was 74.73 years, so above the average of Europe. In addition, new diseases with long and expensive treatment occur, new and more expensive medical procedures and medicines. We inherited a system where in hospitals there are a large number of hospital beds, the internal organization from the hospital to the hospital is a charolic, and this strategy is exactly what this strategy points to. Of course, in the future, there is still a reduction in the number of beds or its repurpose. On the ground, it's obvious that we need a hospice whether it's out of the hospital or in the hospital, and that we need that day hospital, which is a small hospital patient who's here in my hospital very well functioning. What concerns us is the number of patients sent to a specialist consular service by a primary healthcare doctor who has increased by 30% while reducing the number of systematic preventive checks by 70%. Of course that's where we have to remember, Professor. Andrija Printar, who founded the first institutional form of primary health care and who legally stated that the home of health is a health institution that promotes health, of course the circumstances have changed today and that the strategy talks about primary health care, about its improvement. The functioning of Croatian health care in the past was an example of the functioning of healthcare in the Homeland War with all the data on health indicators before, during and after the war when there was an increase in malignant tumours, cardiovascular diseases, more diabetes... more suicides associated with PTSD. The question arises whether we have space, equipment and personnel in the health system. In hospitals we come across an unfavourable structure of employees, we have too many nonmedical staff. In the Republic of Croatia we have 15 thousand 560 doctors of which 7 thousand and 900 specialists. The average age is 55 years. In 2007, we will miss 398 interns, 340 surgeons, and at primary healthcare level we will lack 150 teams, general family medicine 85 pediatric teams and 71 gynaecological teams. Parts of the resolution are seen in this strategy and I am proud that the Bjelovarska-Bjelogorska hospital has approved 31 specializations that all talk about restoring professional staff in our hospital. Four colleagues have already arrived, 25 of them, and 26 of them are on specialization. The strategy shows that hospitals are too far away for some citizens, although we have county hospitals, it is an example between Dubrovnik and Split, where 140 residents live, and the nearest hospital is more than 40 kilometers from the air line, so patients need more than one hour to the first general or clinical hospital. It is estimated that 6% or about 260 Croatian residents must travel to a specialist. The aim of this strategy is also territorial accessibility to improve emergency medical assistance, of course with primary. The strategy shows that we will have to coordinate the specialisations and their verification in line with those in the European Union in the next period. A small number of our doctors who have the so-called certificate. European doctor or European doctor specialising in county hospitals. Lucky for us, here's one we got. There is also an alarming situation as regards nurses where there are really about 12,000 nurses missing, and with one doctor, we have two nurses, and in Europe it is 3.5 to 4. It is also known that England and other European countries will simply seek, capture our nurses who are very well educated and who will, in principle, leave the market. It is to praise the insistence in this strategy that 80% of medical cases are resolved in primary health care, which cannot be solved without further education or without equipment and with those measures carried out by carriers and deadlines. Reforming and streamlining health care is the only option to ensure that health care and health care are as effective as possible for all citizens, which will be within the framework of available financial resources. Rationalization of expensive medicine also requires a professional approach. The world is also increasingly talking about the quality of health care, which is why instruments are being introduced to... maintain and improve quality of which is the most famous accreditation. This means that the physical and legal person of the health system meets the conditions, established standards of structure, procedures and behaviour and that their fulfilment is subject to internal, externally independent checks by the health authority or by means of certain agencies in the world. Some institutions have self-initiatedly accepted the accreditation process, and the example is the "Vuk Vrhovec" Clinical Institute for Diabetes because it propagates for all sectors a famous ISO standardisation organisation. There is also an international accreditation association based in Australia. Therefore, further improvement is still followed by accreditation. Let me also say that you cannot ignore the obligation of every man to care for his own health, whether it is about nutrition, whether it is about physical activity, about taking alcohol, drugs or nicotine. When the consequences arise then, despite the great scientific progress, it is not possible for all to provide assistance. Besides the great possibilities, there are limits that are partly conditional on this rationalization that we're talking about. Therefore, the reform should also be carried out in accordance with the opportunities of society and thus ensure a rationalised...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66777	Please, please, lock up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66778	...health care. And I would especially like to commend, let me, this prevention mentioned at the end of our strategy because let's not forget that a large number of women in 2005, over 2,000 new patients, and 800 died from breast cancer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66779	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66780	Thank you, Mr. President. I would base my discussion right at the end of the debate, on the basis of the end of the debate, part of the debate of my colleague Caparin, and it also refers to the quality of medical care, i.e. the quality of the health development strategy. I would present to you here an example that is not made up, which is true. So, an example of how it really is, how you treat a patient. So, a woman in the early 50s with a diagnosis of colon cancer, a colon, waited after a three-week diagnosis only for the results to determine whether or not she had metastases. She explained her status, her problems every day to this and that and her relatives with her together. She waited two days to get only medication to relieve her pain. She was getting new results daily, and no one explained to her what she was doing and why she was doing it. She was sent from the hospital to the hospital because there was no room for her because of patients who needed urgent treatment. In the end, they sent her to a local infirmary so that her own family would actually take her home for a family care. The nursing service recognized the woman as very serious in the house, indicated the inadmissibility of the situation, and suggested that she be transferred to the hospital. Meanwhile, a woman fell on the floor, broke her hip, lost consciousness. When her relatives asked the hospital for advice what to do, she received the answer that they had no room, and that it would be good, or necessary, to stand by her, to sit by her for 24 hours, to be on duty to actually monitor her condition. What's going on? What's this all about? So this is an example of where the service has made major failures. It has not shown its effectiveness, the service is not focused on the user, the service is not well coordinated. The funds haven't been used properly, and there's a lot of reasons for the failures I've listed here. So, the causes are complex. An example of possible causes may be insufficient funds, therefore, insufficient money. It may be inadequate leadership and organizations, lack of knowledge and skills, inadequate and unacceptable understanding and resistance to change as well as culture, I would say, an enemy approach to the user. And now we can ask, is it possible that this could happen to a patient? And all of that absolutely what I read here happened. However, interestingly, I do not say that this is not happening in Croatia, but it is not Croatia. This is a description of the condition of a patient in Norway. This is shown in their strategy, the national strategy for improving quality within the health sector and social services from 2005 to 2015. So our dissatisfaction with the system as such is, in fact, very often based on our impressions, on our own assessments, feelings and assessments, and we are very, I would say, unobstructed to it. Therefore, to assess the health care system in Croatia, such as this, and not to bear in mind that everything we have heard here all day, all the dissatisfactions not to happen and anywhere. So, even the best health care systems is absurd. At least Norway belongs to the very top. Therefore, according to the level of health care, the quality of healthcare falls within the summit itself and in its national strategy for improving the quality of healthcare is given this example. So the true example shows what they need to do to remove such examples. I almost dare say that in Croatia there are very few examples and it is a big thing and an important thing. Now I would just like to brief you on what is the value of medical care to a well-known expert at international level, therefore, and adviser to the World Health Organization for this, for the quality of care, Ruben... He says in his book: “Unfortunately, the quality of medical care shows many disadvantages even in developed and rich countries today. ” [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A short time before leaving the White House, Bill Clinton, the former president of the United States received a report on the extent of medical errors that could have prevented the national problem of epidemic proportions. In the UK, it is estimated that at the end of this second millennium, up to 400 people died annually due to the damage caused by the treatment. It's mostly medicine. And that 10% of the people admitted to hospital treatment during hospital stay will suffer from medical errors, i.e. 850 thousand people annually at a cost of £2 billion. Research has shown that in many countries around the world a large percentage of procedures were not needed. That's kind of the answer when we say if our patients have everything, access to all the tests. It doesn't mean that if they have access, not if they do, but if all these tests are conducted, it's good for the patient. Nor do they have it, he says, I don't know, when we say there'll be a limited number of recipes. Well, I don't understand what diseases are to be treated with 5 or 10 medications. Furthermore, according to these studies, doctors in many cases did not ask patients questions that were important for decisions in the process, and if they did, they did so in such a way that it did not lead to valuable and reliable answers. Efforts to improve the quality of medical care seem to have not kept up with the progress of medicine. This is a sad team before there are today useful and practical means that allow measuring and improving the quality of care if applied as such. I am pleased that you Mr. Secretary of State here in this Strategy under item 4 on page 34 highlighted the improvement in the quality of medical work. So that's exactly what I'm talking about. Now please keep this in mind and try to work out this 4th point and improve in a way to ensure one systematic quality monitoring method as such, but it is not a quality monitoring with more resources and more money. Croatia cannot single out this time for healthcare more than it stands out, but with so much money, it can provide a better service, it can rationalise these funds and wait for a better time, among other things when gross national income increases and when I do not know the exemption for health care on the head of the population is greater and when it is more appropriate. Finally, what is it, actually what is quality? I'm quoting from this book again in the mid-60s... One of the researchers suggests its definition... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In his view, this is the extent in which concern is really provided in accordance with existing knowledge and generally accepted principles and practices, which is a corresponding better quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He distinguishes concern provided in reality from expected, i.e. those which comply with the available knowledge and accepted principles and scratches, and which meet the criteria and standards previously established. ... This is how the comparison factor introduces us, i.e. evaluations provided and expected concerns and their comparison based on standards as criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It recommends setting standards in the field of three elements of concern, i.e. the organisation of the implementation of the outcome. And I'm closing. Since '72. In the United States, this quality of care is systematically monitored and the medics must show that they have a mechanism to improve the quality of care in order to actually have money from the state and to give it at all. During the 70s and 80s, and especially in the 80s, all European countries approach systematic quality monitoring as such. In Central and Eastern European countries, they became possible only after political reform, i.e. In the early '90s. Croatia as a country that came out of the communist system, and in communism there was no question of how you do medical care because it was understood that communists were doing all the right things and then there was no question of how they work, it was good. Well, we're not doing well, and that's a place where we can do a lot more. So, I conclude definitely, I ask you to look at this segment of strategy and you can improve it in a way that is more systematicly monitoring quality as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66781	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. The line was, I apologize, I apologize. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66782	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is a colleague, Bagarić, who spoke about the quality of health care and, of course, about the possibilities that follow that quality, so I would refer to one text in the Health Strategy on the assessment of the state of financing and role of the Public Health Institute and agencies with public health functions where the Republic of Croatia says must make great efforts to reduce the risk of health and prevention of diseases that can be prevented. These are addictions, lifestyle and nutrition, and others, and improve early diagnostics so that health care costs can be significantly reduced. Of course, early diagnostics are that it can only be increased by implementing preventive programmes and indeed we all welcome the ministry's decision to implement a preventive programme, prevention of breast cancer in the population of 50 to 69 years. Of course, the state cannot provide funds to prevent breast cancer for all populations, but local self-government and public health care institutions can do much to establish and implement preventive programmes. So we have bright examples of the Public Health Institute of the City of Zagreb that conducts mobile mammography, the Institute of Public Health Rijeka that has screening and which have gone far the most, the Institute of Public Health Pula and the Institute of Public Health Zadar that have county programmes to prevent breast cancer and believe me, I run the Institute of Public Health of Zadar County, that with little money can be made good programs. Last year, we asked local self-government only 57,000 kunas that we needed to implement this programme where in a few months 150% we increased the number of mammography women, where we weekly established 7 breast cancers in the early stages where the highest percentage of healing was, and that we gathered all the necessary factors, which are Zadar's hospital with full engagement and assistance in the realization of this programme, the Red Cross, primary health care, the Donna Association, the cancer team. So, with financial assistance and with great work, there is much to be done in prevention where many lives can be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66783	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66784	Mr. President, let me briefly refer to this strategy. So I have, among other things, two remarks that I would like to make right now. So the first observation is that this Strategy, and the laws that will follow this Strategy, the Health Insurance Act and the other laws do not actually respond to a more acute problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is... ours, primarily county and other hospitals, and here I primarily think of the debt these hospitals have and possible solutions for the resolutions of that debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that this problem is big, it's about roadblocks and hospitals, the inability to operate hospitals, some hospitals pull out, that's what we're talking about. The directors of some hospitals also make some very radical moves, so a director in Varazdin County decided to lift a warm meal for doctors and the like. This problem is the hospital, i.e. This debt has existed for many years, so it accumulates, and now it would reach a line beyond which we can't go beyond it unless it really gets rid of it. Well, there are two reasons why these debts were accumulated. The first is therefore that the regular income of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute towards these hospitals is delayed. And other reasons are the unrealistic limits that these hospitals have and receive monthly fees. And in combination with each other, we come to the point that hospitals don't have enough means to function. I also agree with the heads of the counties who warn that the counties will not and cannot actually repay those debts, but they cannot become responsible for this, although they are under the new Health Insurance Act. So, I have understanding because certain counties refuse to participate in covering losses because they themselves did not participate in creating contracts with HZZ. The offered contracts can be accepted or rejected, amended and complemented, and all of this is accepted for the sake of patient health care. It was similar in Čakovec, therefore to our county hospital, where year after year, remarks were made to the limit that was in our county hospital but unfortunately it was not accepted. This year it was accepted, an increase in funds by 4%. Too bad it wasn't accepted before because the losses would certainly be much less and it would be easier to pay back. The total debts of our county hospital in Čakovec are somewhere around 28 million kuna and for example the request of the hospital from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is 22 million kuna. Therefore, the Croatian Health Insurance Office owes 22 million to the hospital's costs and the hospital again owes 28 million kuna suppliers. So I think it should be solved as soon as possible in a way that makes the whole system more efficient. And it should make it a more realistic limit. So the county hospital in Čakovec is one of the most rational hospitals in business. She herself, among all the hospitals in Croatia, showed the most real and we could say the least cost and instead of being kind of stimulated, she was punished by having such a low limit that as such she was not accepted but was reduced and then had not enough resources to function. The Health Insurance Act is said to be decided that hospital debts will have to be taken over by the county, and the question of how much is possible. So the long hospital, for example, in Čakovec, is 28 million kuna. Our county budget in Međimurje is total gross we could say 100 million kuna. Of these, the original revenues of our budget are about 40 million kuna, 40 million kunas are decentralised funds that have already been booked in advance for certain needs. The revenue of 10 million kuna is therefore intended to be obtained from the sale of certain properties. And so, with these last funds, you'd have to settle a debt which I think would be simply impossible. Then she wouldn't come to a hospital block, but she'd come to a county blockade, which is why we can't allow it. As one of the possible solutions is to change the system. We also agree with those that need to be regionalized. Here, we are MD along with other regional parties in Croatia, we have also brought a platform for regionalisation of Croatia, where in point 6 of the proposal that state health care services will be decentralised to regional levels with their own governance bodies and their accounts while at the level of the Republic of Croatia public directorates will act to ensure community, solidarity and balance and according to the provisions of specific laws. So that's what I think it would be good to do, that, apart from the powers that are finally starting to lower funds to local levels, to regional levels. If they did, it would certainly increase the efficiency of the system because it would be a much shorter way to do it at the level of the region or the headquarters of the region, not that one of these money travels from Čakovec to Zagreb and from Zagreb to Čakovec, etc. Also, as far as the limit, I think we'd get a real picture or a more realistic picture of the need for a certain county hospital. So those in that region who live and work will surely get a more realistic picture, not that this picture is somehow imposed by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute here from Zagreb. So I think that we should think and go in this direction as well as the solutions to our county hospitals. What I'd still like to warn you about is a matter of prevention. The tables we have at the beginning of the strategy show that the leading causes of death in the Republic of Croatia are therefore heart disease, heart failure, cerebrovascular disease, etc., behind this are malignant neoplasms of certain organs. But in that chapter that tells us the same is true of leading diseases. In the first place, the same diseases are the cardiovascular system. Prevention can always bring the most savings. We think that the funds currently invested in prevention are not nearly enough to change our people's minds about having to care and watch over their health. Unfortunately, we have to work on it all together. I don't think that's the case right now. So also this plan, prevention programs see that prevention programs are mostly involved in early detection of different cancer cancer cancer cancers. Although cancer is in the second place by mortality or by type of disease and in the first place are heart disease and cardiovascular system I think that a lot more attention should be paid and a special programme of the ministry dedicated to health-preventive physical activities. This is where it comes down to promotional activities. Therefore, it is not enough to send a message and pay for the advertisement on television but also to organize the system to attract people to go and therefore to watch their health. Certain steps, therefore, have already been made in the city of Zagreb, in certain counties. Also in Međimurje County, the Institute of Public Health, for example, the Međimurje County, in collaboration with the Međimurje Association of Sports Recreation "Sport for All". Here's what they made for every doctor in the Medimuric office. The recipe for a healthy and active life where it recommends certain activities. Fast walk, bike ride, exercise, swimming, running and so on and so on. This very “Sport for All” association is very active in promoting and organising such activities, but unfortunately we can say that there is no support regarding funding from all those who would have to give it otherwise although it organizes a large number of different actions, a event where it promotes a healthy lifestyle. So my view is that the advice to include the Ministry programme such as early cancer detection programmes is included in prevention. The Ministry's programme on health preventive physical activities. We think that if we reverse the situation then there'll be less cost, less drug use, less hospital stay and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66785	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66786	A colleague, Pavlic, spoke about the functioning of hospitals, and especially with regard to this situation, which occurred with major drugs and so on, debts. The normal thing is that an ordinary citizen is referred to the hospital that is closest to him and so on and that he experiences the entire health care system through that meeting, through those institutions that represent the health care he is referred to on a daily basis. It seems to me that the debate that took place after this situation in the media has led to some confusion among citizens, patients and so on, and that is the answer to the question of who is responsible for this financial situation? The minister insisted, at least that's how I understood how guilty the principals were. And he told them that I quote him "to look up to Croatian pensioners." And he says, "If pensioners can live with small pensions and directors must mean, know how to dispose of money." I think that's one bad message. It's no one against saving, but really comparing and wishing the situation in hospitals was in any way comparable to the pensioners who are the most endangered category in our society and we know what they symbolize I think it's a bad message in themselves. We also heard from counterpart Milinovic, who is the head of a hospital, vice president of the parliament, who said in one of his statements that he believes the system is guilty. So that's kind of where two thesis came from. Are the principals you? Is the person to blame or does the system implicate something that leads to this situation? And by the way, I am convinced that the answer should be sought on the trail of that little discussion between colleagues Bačić and Linic in what way can we secure in society the means without which we will not be able to do anything? That may be the area where we need to find a common word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66787	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66788	So obviously it's a system that we all need to improve together. If that were not the case, today we would be witnessing requests from the Ministry or certain people to be replaced by directors at county hospitals. So a few months ago, we witnessed a request to exchange directors for certain debts. Debts have now been increased multiplely, and there is no shift of directors. It means that we ourselves admit that the system itself is therefore the cause of these, these crises in health care. As far as the hospital system is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66789	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66790	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to do something here a little short on my exposure not wanting to repeat what I said when I first read this bill or Strategy for reasons because this is what Mr. Lesar was talking about this morning regarding coordination with professions, trade unions, co-ordination with regional self-government. So founders and owners of many health institutions. I would go in my presentation from what we heard this morning from Mr. Minister who said that the Republic of Croatia is closest to European standards in two areas. This is in the field of health and primary education. I have to say, I totally agree with that. It's just now that the question is why is that? Is this because we have successfully reformed the health system since the late 1990s? Is it because we successfully reformed the health funding system or because of something else? It is my personal opinion of my colleague and colleagues that we are closest to Europe precisely because these systems have not been able to reform enough but are still based on those quality foundations on which they stood for several decades. And elementary school and health care. That's why we're in 35th place, but the question of whether or not we'll be there tomorrow. My colleagues and colleagues mentioned the printer. That's why I'm gonna skip that segment. It is this foundation, a solid foundation, a quality foundation on which the primary health system was first and foremost a part of secondary health care. As far as hospital healthcare is concerned, I was very pleased to hear from the minister this morning when he said that the government was proposing in this strategy to go towards the development of four academic hospitals. So 4 centers or a system of excellence. 4 systems that will allow citizens in all parts of the Republic of Croatia to have access to the same, quality and highly differentiated health services. It's for all praise. Great model. A model you'll find in a large number of countries. It's me, my last stay was in the Netherlands. They suggested the same model. They don't suggest they've had it for a few decades. They have six academic hospitals. Everything that's being obtained... It's being restored, it's getting times 6. Every academic hospital gets the same camera. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When they are restored, they receive the same machine and therefore every citizen in the Netherlands regardless of what academic hospital they report to has a similar quality high-differentiated service. Perfect. Well, that's very good on paper, though. Is it so in Croatia and will it be so in Croatia tomorrow? Can we really, in this environment, in the economic environment, in the economic environment, and in realising our colleagues and colleagues? That's why I have to say that of all the exposure and I've been listening here over 20 exposures I like the most about access to a man who has nothing to do with health care. That was Mr. Linic. Believe me, he touched the core of the problem. And so should we all think when we talk about strategy. Because a lot of what we're talking about has nothing to do with strategy. These are rationalizations we'll always have to do. Information, is that a strategy? It's just the introduction of new technology in tracking statistics, etc., etc. It's not a strategy. The strategy is something much bigger, much wider. So let me just say again the Netherlands could clearly go to a system like academic hospitals, because it has 5 to 6 times the gross social product no Croatia. It also stands out more for health care than Croatia. Its citizens have a much higher standard so they can afford certain private clear health services to pay them, etc. It's not worth everything to us colleagues and colleagues. So the same Netherlands buys machines on the same market, medicines, equipment, medical materials, at the same price with a 5.6 times greater isolation per person for healthcare. So we and those with our fund five, six, seven, eight times poorer. Is it really possible, then, to basically copy these models and expect us to actually realize them? Today, that's how it is. Tomorrow, my colleagues and colleagues will be even worse. Stethoscope and palpation are becoming less and less used to make some kind of ultimate diagnosis. Diagnostics, and a good part of therapy is based on quality, extremely expensive machines, appliances for which large and large resources should be allocated. These machines are increasingly expensive, increasingly complex and therefore a fundamental problem of how to keep up with the procurement and equipment of our health institutions with such, clearly such a type of equipment. The price of our doctor's work is low. His sacrifice and our nurses and other staff in hospitals is exceptional, but believe me, he can't fully compensate for the lack of money. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's mentioned here, I don't know, here from the debate I recorded carefully, shift work, Hungarian model. I agree, we need to use some machines better, we need to work in second and third shifts, but it's still not a final solution and a permanent solution. That's what we're going to rationalize part of the system, but it's not a strategy. Then, here is mentioned even, I don't know, economic fishing-environment belt, money used, transferred etc. It's a bit clearly declassified here to talk about such a way of solving, resolving the issues and problems of our health care. Even the Rovinj tobacco factory is mentioned. Oh, my God, it's a gray zone. Savings there, expenses here. Radical decentralisation, as a solution to health problems. I absolutely can't accept it, I can't accept it. It's pouring from hollow to empty. My colleagues and colleagues, what's the problem? The Republic of Croatia today has industrial production only 75% of what we had in 1990. So industrial production of the Republic of Croatia 75% of production from the 1990s. A year. Last year, the gross social product in Croatia reached the gross social product of the Socialist Republic of Croatia from 1980. Then believe me, the equipment, the material, the drugs were much cheaper so we could buy a lot for that money. Today with the same means, with more expensive machines and drugs, we can't do much more than we have today. My institution, my university works and provides health care facilities to a state hospital. We haven't gotten any of the favors we've been providing for them in seven months. Not one lip. We haven't received anything for scientific research in nine months. She's naked and nothing else. Therefore, the way out is colleagues and colleagues know what to do. The strategy of clear health, or strategy in any area of social activities, must be based on the strategy of economic development. We need to increase production, competitiveness, exports, gross social product, so clearly with the increase of standards can be increased afterwards and health standards. Any health development strategy under these conditions is nothing more than a survival strategy. So the strategy of developing the economy. Only when it succeeds can we put a clear health development strategy on it. I would rather not go further, but I would really like to talk very openly in the future about the real possibilities of a strategy in any field of social activity, as well as in health care, to be a real colleague and to essentially focus all our strength on solving those real problems, which is employment, this is a more clearly gross social product. It is then a clear and better and quality basis from which we can fence a better quality health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66791	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66792	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here is a colleague, Doric, who has touched an important question, how in fact Croatia with such a small gross national income, i.e. by dissipating health care which he has combined with the Netherlands, can monitor these investments in expensive diagnostic equipment that should still be concentrated in these regional centres that are indicated in the strategy, this politicnitrism of Croatia's development. And that's good. And I think he's okay with that, too. I see the only way to complete this start-up categorization of hospitals because that's the only way we can prevent some of them from, I'm going to call small hospitals, not underestimating them, getting machines that are inappropriate to them. At one concentration, however, once the control is centralized, we must do so to ensure that this sophisticated equipment goes to hospitals suitable for such equipment, which they have with diagnostics and the possibility of a second step. This also means to solve the problem when a diagnosis is made, and not that unfortunately now we have heard in the debate this morning that there are some 20 CT spiral devices in institutions that are not able to use them properly. Therefore, it is a waste of unnecessary money and there is, in my opinion, the only way to ensure that such thinking can ensure that these regional centres are adequately equipped and that they are actually monitoring the development of medical technology in the right way, and this will necessarily require that health investments be sought by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66793	We have a replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66794	A colleague may agree with a part of what you said, but I will never accept that centralization is a solution but an organisation and coordination. Here's my... Organization and coordination, not centralization. No one at the Ministry of Health is competent to say what, where and how, but directors must find each other, agree. Founders of owners, we practically didn't consult our county, county self-government, with them at all. We should have arranged with them, made clear arrangements with them, coordinated with them, and clearly we would have dealt with a lot of these dilemmas that we talked about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66795	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66796	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As my fellow Judge said this morning on behalf of the club, this is a miraculous strategy, and since I no longer believe in miracles and in steps of 7 miles, I find it very difficult to support this strategy given the observed shortcomings. I'll say those shortcomings in good faith, because that's part of me and what I say, I say from the heart. I do not consider the first workshop held for two days at the Ministry of Health and Social Care to be held in public debate, regardless of the fact that representatives of representative associations of citizens and social partners participated in the workshop's work. According to us in Croatia, the pensioner's party the lowest level of public debate would be at least one of the stands organised by the Ministry of Health and Social Care in the county, so including what Mr Doric just said, that even the founders of the county institutions can say their opinion. Furthermore, I am holding a questionable system of bringing social partners into line and for the reason that, in my performance in the previous debate on this same strategy, I have asked for a written indication of the social partners' acceptance or non-acceptance, i.e. to give reasons for their position on this National Health Development Strategy. Furthermore, the National Strategy for Health Development lacks respect for the post-war period of Croatian society and the increased needs of Croatian citizens for healthcare against the consequences of direct war activities as well as indirect stress caused by war destruction. Also, the state of transition stress caused by privatising the most rigid approach to transition reforms that are reflected in increasing unemployment, the continued fear of job loss, the conclusion of a work contract for a certain period of time alone has not been identified in the National Health Development Strategy as a significant fact that exists in our society and is not characteristic of any reference group, or for any country in the reference group with which we compare. According to the National Strategy for Health Development, it is not even identified as the health needs of the population, let alone that this has been identified as a national health priority. In the National Health Development Strategy, I found no so-called a zero position that should be achieved that segments of this strategy can be applied at all. I believe that the condition without which the National Health Development Strategy cannot be implemented is to resuscitate and rationalise the financing of health institutions, I stress the most hospital system. I consider that because I have no data whatsoever, let alone objective data and critical analyses of health reforms carried out both by 2000 and after 2000. So there is no rating of the Croatian model of health reform from the 1990s, as there is no rating of the pilot project in the Koprivnica-križevci County from 2000 to 2004. There is no review of investment investments in health and no review of capital projects. Above all, I am interested in this zero position and how to get to it and how to create assumptions that the hospital systems in the future do not generate new losses, so the analysis of the current situation and the proposal solution are the basis of any strategy and condition that it would be successful. I would like someone to deny that in Croatia, research will be conducted in the health system worth 300 million kuna, and we have not seen any reports on the survey conducted in 2003 on a sample of 100,000 patients anywhere. Furthermore, the territorial spread of Croatia and the problems and costs arising from these facts cannot be taken into account. One city in northern Italy, for example. Milan with its surroundings by population is equal to Croatia, and health care can provide its citizens with a smaller number of health institutions, which in any case gives places to rationalise and direct more resources into clean health services. The territorial distribution of Croatia is an additional difficult environment to take into account and which makes us significantly different from the reference group. According to the World Health Organization's assessment, about 18% of health care spending in Croatia, but throughout health care, so including that part that's privatised, so 18% makes the payment of health services out of citizens' pockets, and that's not a little bit regardless of what most of that money in the system, about the system we're talking about today, is not recorded. The issue of health corruption is also being raised which this National Health Development Strategy does not deal with in a word. I remind healthcare corruption is high in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. So that's where she got up high, not even mentioning her here. The national strategy for health development does not counter possible conflicts of interest because of the fact that it provides for the right for public health institutions to negotiate their capacities except with the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and other insurance companies operating exclusively for profit purposes. The health care system will not save two drug lists and rationalise costs on this basis such as they did not, neither did administrative fees. Nor can the property censorship system be a solution to all problems, but with this institute it should be very careful not to make new injustices, i.e. to continue to tolerate injustices already present in the welfare system today. For me, there is a big difference and a long way between the property censorship and the social card that Mr. Minister mentioned today. I am a social card person, but you have to know exactly what it does and what parameters determine that social card. Additional health insurance must cover both medicines and must remain non-profit and solidarity. No one has ever run away from a possible price correction, but an institute that has been so difficult to obtain the right of citizenship in Croatia, and ultimately has received a high user acceptability assessment, so the citizens of Croatia should be preserved as previously imagined, and in a function of greater availability of healthcare in which the availability of the medicine has a great real effect and an additional psychological effect. If the availability of the medicinal product depends on the payment opportunities of primarily low-paid pensioners and workers, then they rightly ask, and who built most of the facilities of today's health institutions, and by giving up salaries, whether it is the separation from business funds of companies and personal contributions and only contributions. Well, I guess they won't be told today that they're guilty of being singled out for a university hospital project in Zagreb, and he didn't succeed. Well, we're not going to blame those who pulled the trigger. I remind you, no one was responsible for this, nor for the failed reforms so far, and the great money was spent. For me, there are no doubts, reforms and health development strategies, yes, but reforms consistent with the needs of citizens and consistent with real priorities. The reform and health development strategy that, at 10 and 15 years of age, the proposed national health development strategy is unfortunately not yet that. And finally, one question. Gentlemen, how much of the costs shown here in the health care system would, by all accounts, be the cost of the Ministry of Science? I know our healthcare system has funded health projects. Why don't we separate that too, say what is the real cost of the health system, which is the scientific projects that belong to someone else's ministry, and not to fund it from this rate of contribution. So it is very difficult, I repeat, to vote in favour of such a strategy, a strategy that is not sufficiently discussed in some way, a problem and is not acceptable for most Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66797	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66798	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Health is the most important prerequisite for the quality functioning of society as a whole. Although the introduction of the National Health Development Strategy says that entering the European Union needs to reorganise the public health system in order to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, I believe that we do not have to do this in order to adapt to the European Union's legislation but, above all, because of the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that our ministries do not know what who is doing because this Strategy is in collegiate with amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which allows large cities to establish institutions in primary health care, compared to this document where everything stops at the county level. I have not been able to read from this text who will establish hospices and similar institutions to the level of the county, and according to the law, large cities can do so. An example of poor legal solutions in health will be illustrated on an example. Rijeka could not open a children's polyclinic against child abuse and neglect, whose activity is affecting the area of mental health by modeling it in Zagreb because it is not a town of counties such as the City of Zagreb. In the primary health care system, the patronage service is not mentioned anywhere, although Professor Hebrang said in his term that the patronage is a pillar of primary health care. We don't want everything to fall apart if that pole isn't there. It would also be good to regulate the issue of compulsory doctor’s appointment after completing a medical study, and before passing a national exam without which the young doctor cannot start working in the health care service. In fact, now most of them are forced to volunteer. Many colleagues, including Minister Ljubicic, mentioned 2 drug lists in their statements. Those who defend this document defend and the list so-called generic drugs that are cheaper and allegedly as effective as original. I'm just wondering if they'd afford themselves or their loved ones their originals or their replacements. They'll tell someone that they've all been left with choices. Unfortunately, reality is very different. The vast majority of residents cannot afford expensive originals, so they are forced to consume substitutions that are often ineffective, no matter how hard they try to convince us otherwise. The Strategy said that reconstruction and health reform will be implemented through, among other things, centralised policy, planning and control of implementation, and through decentralisation of governance and accountability. For example, the ministry determines how much is spent and how is spent in hospitals. Among others in the county and the county that has responsibility for its financing cannot affect the system of functioning. The proposed solutions do not clearly define the patient's rights, i.e. no number of prescriptions, laboratory findings and instructions, but will be determined by the regulation by the minister depending on the financial means available. So it turns out that the scope of law will be variable, which means that the patient will never know what rights he has at that time. Health reform, as Minister Ljubicic said here in time, does not solve the problem of patients and pensioners and old people whose health care is most needed and who are socially at risk because health becomes the luxury goods they are already having trouble buying, and in the future it will be harder to do so. No one bought the disease, and it's unforgivable to use it to fill the budget. A system of solidarity should be designed to increase healthy health leave, especially for those with higher incomes. Further development of primary health care is planned so that up to 80% of all health problems are addressed and 14 points state what should be done. And this is listed as a revolutionary shift in the quality of primary health care. But I would say that Columbo had discovered America long ago, so the primary health care system as proposed existed, for example in Rijeka, based on recommendations from the World Health Organization 30 years ago or as we are happy to say in the dark. So in the 10th center of primary health care or popular macro centres, which were mainly built only by contributions of general medicine, gynecologist, pediatrician, specialist in school medicine, cardiologist, physiologist, physical therapy, dentist with prosthetics, patronage, laboratory, services provided by more nurses such as adult counselling for diabetics, cardiac patients, pressurers and other chronic patients, diagnostics, home therapy, epidural perfusion etc. But by introducing the so-called White books in the early '90s the jobs of senior nurses were abolished, and the offices were given to hire doctors who now function for themselves. So the integrated health care system isn't the discovery of America because we had it 30 years ago. It is good to finally understand that this system has been good, so we are back to it, but the question is how to implement 80% of the health problems of citizens in primary health care. So you need to invest again in the equipment and education of the professional staff that will implement the system. There is a reference to prevention. The question is which preventive and what personnel, what prevention and what personnel will reduce mortality from, for example, cardiovascular diseases, malignant diseases or diabetes? How will this be done when prevention is carried out through three systems? Checks and infants of young children, school protection that comes down to systematic checks and vaccinations and patronage. School children have been discontinued by doctors for sick children, so they go either to a pediatrician or to an adult doctor. There are no preventive mammographic and gynological examinations for women of all ages. Prevention that prevents expensive treatment, operations, medicines, therapy, hospital treatment, specialist processing and is similar to the cheapest part of healthcare, and is not practically implemented through the offered solutions. Finally, I would like to give an example of preventive healthcare. The Primorje-Gorski Kotar County is starting with a project of continuous implementation of free mammographic checks to be financed from the county budget and local self-government units in whose area the reviews will be carried out. The project is owned by the Institute of Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County. Under the agreement reached in financing, the state had to participate with one-third of the cost, but so far it has not given a single kuna and is not known when or whether it will give at all. And before I finish, I want to remind myself of a significant part of the population that no one here has said a single word, and there is no letter in this document on that part of the population of Croatia, although it is more than 10% of the population of Croatia mostly of the younger age category and which are in no way included in our country's health care system. If you haven't guessed yet, I'll resolve your dilemma. It's about athletes. We are all proud of their successes, we like to identify ourselves with Janica, Ivica, Goran, Blanca and many others more or less known, but when it comes to health, there is no such health protection for our heroes anywhere. It is known how much physical effort they are exposed to, and thus the risks to injury, many times and with lasting, and often fatal consequences, but in the health care system their health is left to them, their clubs, sports alliances or families. Even in the proposal for a new Sport Act, which is on the agenda immediately after this point, the right and the possibility of health care is simply thrown out as a possibility even for top athletes, so those with the highest results that require the greatest physical effort, which includes the healthiest part of the population. Because of all these above-mentioned shortcomings of this text I strategy in this form unfortunately cannot support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66799	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66800	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I must stress that there is no clear financial indication of what is planned and how to finance this strategy during that period. We also had some other strategies discussed in this High House, so we had at least an orientation indicator of how much we should invest in future periods from the water industry and so on, so I don't understand why we don't have a very clear and precise situation at this time how much each year the government together with insurance companies through the Croatian Health Insurance Office intends to invest money to implement both these strategies and all those laws that will be passed as accompanying ones. I agree with all those who have said that without the development of the economy there is no good development of health care, and I also think that this strategy, which is likely to be voted by the majority, is simply trying to make it without enough money. I'll talk about it more clearly. For example, when it is said that the situation in health care is catastrophic, it does not refer to the work of health workers, councilmen, nurses, nurses because they are also sufficiently professional, sufficiently respected, it is a financial situation in health care and we cannot remain immune and blind to all that is happening these days ahead of us that a good part of the county general hospitals was in front of the blockades of their jury accounts. Why is that? We go to an example of Varazdin County, which is fortunate or unfortunate to have one county general hospital and three special hospitals. The limits involved and the decentralised resources involved are unfortunately shared without sufficiently clear criteria. We now do not know how it is possible, for example, for the decentralised funds of the Varazdin County to get insufficient for last year 19 and a half million kuna, and some counties that are similar to the composition and population get 5, 6 and 10 million kuna more. This should be explained why insurance or bed insurance is not given in all counties equal to or approximately equal to money. Another thing I want to say is that despite all this, the Varazdin County has invested in the past 5 years with decentralised funds totaling around 200 million kuna for the development of health care. Now I'm asking a question, and that's not what it says in this strategy. The Varazdin County currently has one of the most modern birthplaces and gynecology in the Republic of Croatia, come to treat patients from other parts of Croatia. How is it that a county that has about 30% lower average salary than it is at Croatia level, how will it pay any losses in its hospital? I'm asking myself and you. I'm afraid of nothing or almost difficult. Last year, 26-and-a-half million kuna losses achieved the health of the Varazdin County. The impressive amount, and I'm convinced, and according to the data we're processing for the General Hospital of Varazdin, is certainly not the director's sole culprit for this loss. On one side we have that the limit is insufficient and due to the increase in wages, the communals have increased, let's remember how the prices of energy these days are rampant and, of course, it all affects the loss. Patients from other parts of Croatia are coming. There's an even worse situation in special hospitals. You only have in special hospitals approximately 30% of the people of Varazdin County are treated. By the way, be told in this strategy that special hospitals or future health care facilities are not said anything and absolutely certain that it should be legally but also strategically defined what and how they develop, what they will serve. We have a situation that, for example, the hospital in the Varazdin spas, which is a spa for bone diseases, fractures and everything else, and by limits and contracted what it gets, could close its doors to 1.11. Is that in the interest of treating Croatian citizens? Therefore, there is no speech in this strategy, or at least I have not seen how health care is meant on the islands. And the word co-financing services that should have citizens will remain I'm afraid of an empty letter on paper. I ask myself and you how, and there are such cases, a couple where both spouses work in Vartex and let them be workers with a thousand 800 or 1,000 kuna salaries in which they co-finance their health costs. I'm afraid they're simply not going to go to the doctor, but this 30 kuna participation is a month if they're sick and those who mourn in harder jobs are quite sure and more often sick, as they will pay for it. It is said here that each of us as a citizen must take care of our health, healthy diet, this and that. Let us not be ridiculous to ourselves in moments when such a family survives we go with the flossulas that they must take care of their healthy diet and their health. I'd like to set up a secretary of state and give a few concrete answers. This is about emergency hospital reception, so I'd like to know who's going to work in these emergency receptions, what medical profiles or what other staff profiles? Will they, in some normal working time, work on their departments at the hospital and come back later or will there be something else? There is no or very little talk here about protecting the health of children and school children. If we are all in favour and we are saying that the citizens of Croatia are too little, that we should be extinct as a people, then we should certainly be very concerned about taking care of children in general and especially their health care. This was about demagogy. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking a question last year when the Health Insurance Act abolished the right for children with special needs or children with developmental disorders who have to be told on the same time to go to regular therapy, for example, at the Varazdin spa only if the distance is more than 100 kilometers away is paid. Who's talking about demagogy? We have a situation that a large number of children cannot attend these treatments because they are usually such children, unfortunately, from less wealthy families, not to say the poor where usually because of the nature of the disease, one parent has to take care of them all day long. And we did that which just shows that this government just doesn't take care of the poorest citizens of this country. There's also something about medical staff here. The fact is, and we have to admit it to ourselves, so I'd like to get answers to how it can be solved except at the verbal border. The fact is, we have a lack of doctors on one side. We need to be aware that especially in the small hospital provinces, people who have specialization are getting older and new people precisely because of the lack of money and everything else that goes to specializations are getting smaller and harder to get, especially for certain specializations. We also have a Bologna Declaration. How will this affect this part of us? And when we talk about the chieftains at the discussion that the Health Council of the Varazdin County SDP conducted doctors from primary health care said that a thousand 700 patients or cardboards, as they are said today, cannot normally be done to make a minimum of 2,000. It's said here that in the process of headline, I assume that the headtains increase or that something else is done and that the number of patients is reduced. And then you can talk about prevention but prevention can't be just some sort of action and activity through newspapers, radios, televisions, but it must be preventive reviews. We need to make it clear what the state and what we, as legislators together with the HZZO, can finance for preventive checks. Is it for example for men over 40 years of age once a year review of prostate, so we will certainly have less costs than we will have after someone gets sick and we have to go to surgery because the current situation where only calls for preventive checks older than 50 years who have not been to the doctor for three years is nothing. I'm afraid that's not going to solve any of this. Therefore, it seems to me that human policy and specialization are particularly important to speak. And something should still be more than it says here about labor medicine. We have nothing or very little to say about the health care of workers, then what kind of prevention for the health care of workers will be because the prevention will be that with some regular checks that doctors as a multidisciplinary or interdisciplinary category or part of the team say what it looks like in the workplace, what the job looks like, what the environment looks like, then it will be something we can talk about. These are just some of the details that I personally cannot support this strategy because it seems to me that the strategy wants to be done again in a way that the 226 million kuna will return from the Ministry of Health to the Treasury because there is no one to spend and the Government is also part of which we have a poor financial situation so that the Government does not fulfil its financial obligations to the unemployed and farmers who should absolutely have health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66801	Replica's esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66802	Mr. Korenika claimed that the Varazdin County has said 10% lower monthly limit than Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Zadar. I agree with this finding, it's in nature accurate. But the Istrian County has 10% lower monthly limit than the Varazdin General Hospital, which is not your fault, but the people in the ministry are guilty. And the County of Istria is asking only one thing, Mr. Secretary of State, to level us with the monthly limit of the Varazdin County. This situation where the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance determines the revenues but where the counties are responsible for the expenditures, this situation is on the verge of mind. Countys with their budgets of 100 to 50, with a maximum of 200 to 250 million kunas are not in a position to care for general hospitals that are almost, with almost annual revenues reaching 200 million kuna. For example, in 2003 the budget of the General Hospital in Pula was 179 million kuna and the budget of the County of Istria 181 million kuna. In Varazdin, the general hospital’s income since 2003 was 166 million kuna, and their budget was 114 million kuna. Do you really think in the Ministry or the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance that a county can be managed with 15, 20 or 25 million kuna and parallel care for health standards. It's not possible. Therefore, root changes are needed primarily in relation to the decentralisation of local self-government, and if not new determination of these monthly limits. And I'm really asking you from this position to come out of our counties to meet because what we're about to resuscitate general hospitals at this time does not mean that these same general hospitals will not re-produce 20, 30 or 15 million kuna within a year. The situation has become unsustainable and this leads to the collapse of not only the general hospital status but also the county itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66803	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66804	Well, it seems to me, colleague Cain, that there is no dispute between our thoughts. The fact is I asked the secretary of state, but also the government as a whole, to give clear criteria on the basis of which the limits are determined. To give clear criteria on which, on the basis of which decentralised funds are given, because it cannot happen for the Varazdin insurance company or, for example, Pula are different amounts of money. After all, I know there is solidarity, but we need to know clearly and say in this country so much and so much by the criteria team and team. In this way, as we now have a situation in Croatia, it turns out that the Government, the Ministry of Health and those who decide to hold those foreign exchanges: "Your money, our ideas." And I am telling you and I agree with you. Varazdin County as well as all the others of this hour with their financial potentials cannot simply answer for this in health care. They don't determine wages, they don't determine the price of drugs. Neither do they set utility prices, but they have to pay them all neatly, and there is no director who will be able to arrange it positively on one side without denying patients. I can ask the secretary of state: what do we need at the Varazdin hospital then all, all the patients who come outside the Varazdin County and come to run them out about 15%, not give them health care? That could be a criterion. And if we still have a situation like Varazdin County that has three special hospitals, the situation is more difficult. And I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, to take care of it. I don't think it's taken care of enough. Because the easiest thing to say is, "The county will pay for something." Just tell us what money. There was no financial decentralisation and no matter who managed it, he had responsibility for managing any county he would not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66805	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66806	I would like to thank Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. So here we spend all day discussing a very important topic, which is a strategy for developing the health system of the Republic of Croatia. I think there is one general political consensus in the Republic of Croatia in view of whether reform is necessary or not? All political options in the Republic of Croatia agree that the reform is necessary because the current situation is not satisfied with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but it is not satisfied with the medical staff, doctors, nurses and so on. And now that we have achieved this consensus that the reform is needed before us is a strategy, a development strategy, and it is expected that the text of this strategy, on the concept of the strategy, has reached one consensus, agreement that the political options are so minimally social partners. However, the consent of the social partners does not exist. In the opening statement, Mr. Minister informed us and informed us that this agreement was reached, however, through means of public communication and yesterday on the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy from the mouth of the Union representatives, we were informed that there is no such agreement. There is no agreement because the social partners could not accept the transfer of burdens to patients or patients. Despite the agreement reached, which has not been reached by consensus, I continue to believe that such agreement is necessary and that there is no need to go into something that will only be achieved through the political will and the circumstances of the majority of hands, because the failures of the strategy will be borne by patients. Patients will be treated and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is both a potential patient and a potential patient. When we talk about the development of health care, we need to start with some facts. The fact is that 14 and a half billion kuna are collected from health insurance contributions annually. The fact is that during the year health costs are 16 billion kuna, but also slightly more than 16 billion kuna, which suggests that there are not enough funds. However, when there is not enough funding, the first thing to be done is to review or rationalise, organise, and if that is not enough, it is also necessary to look for additional sources of funding because a stable health system assumes a stable financial system. Without stable funding, there is no stable health system. Today, during the debate, we heard how much is allocated to health in the countries of the European Union, how much is set out in the Republic of Croatia. And he's always calling on it. Well, in the Republic of Croatia, there's much less to be singled out than there. However, we have not mentioned or mentioned how much income the citizens of the European Union are, and how much are the citizens of the Republic of Croatia receiving? As a legislative body, we must ask ourselves what we are as a legislative authority, what has the Government done as an executive authority to bring our incomes closer to the incomes of citizens and employees of the European Union? I won't say anything, but I'll confirm we haven't done enough. There is one general belief based on the testimony of employees that today's employees in the Republic of Croatia are not adequately paid for their work. However, we, as a government, neither as a legislative authority nor as an executive authority, have actually done anything to ensure that the employee receives the salary as much as he would have actually earned and how much he deserved. Greater wages also mean increased contributions to health insurance, means more resources for the functioning of the health care system. Furthermore, it is known that today there is something in Croatia that is not very practical and that is not common for civilised countries, which is that our employees receive two-part salaries. One part, and that is the lowest part, is received through current accounts or accounts, and they are certainly paid contributions to health insurance. The second part shall be paid to workers by hand and no contributions for health insurance shall be paid to that part. So there's another source of funding for the health care system. And that's what everybody knows. But I don't know for what reasons, I won't argue that there is no political will to put an end to it. The third option and the third source of funding for the healthcare system is quite certain eradication of the black market. How much in Croatia today does the citizens of the Republic of Croatia work on black, are not reported, do not pay contributions, but are sick and come for treatment? What have we done to take advantage of that resource? We haven't done enough. In 2001, in this Croatian Parliament, we passed the Law on the collection of outstanding claims for the reason that at the time there were 23 and a half billion outstanding state claims based on taxes and contributions. That bill didn't pay off. Not long ago, a few days ago, we read in the press that the government is thinking about not passing any laws again, because there are 8 and a half billion kunas of unpaid tax-based claims and contributions. So I think that the state government and the state apparatus should be very focused precisely on establishing financial discipline. Because financial indiscipline damages everything I've stated so far, and the result is a line of less resistance. So we're not able to protect workers from getting real salary, we're not able to prevent the black market, we're not able to prevent tax evasion and income contributions and pay. We're on a low-resistance line. The less resistance line is, of course, transferring the costs of the health system to citizens, i.e. patients and patients. I think that in the social state, and the Republic of Croatia is a social state, so we wrote in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that it is a social state. Such thinking is not good, and such thinking is unacceptable. One way of funding is, of course, additional health insurance. I haven't come across as much information as it is. But I'm thinking purely laymanically, because I'm not a health worker and I don't understand the subject, but I'm trying to think about funding, sources of funding. The very fact that there is health insurance suggests that it might be wise, wise to encourage health insurance, additional health insurance because I read somewhere that I have achieved negative results for reasons that only those who are users of health services are more frequent than other citizens. Well, I've been paying for additional health insurance since the beginning, and I've never used a health care service in my entire life. And I was glad that these funds I pay for the insurance policy I hope are used to finance the healthcare system and to be used for those who need it. However, if that supplementary insurance does not have any advantages, if the one who is additionally provided re-pays and differences in drugs and this and that and then we do not encourage additional insurance as an additional source of funding, we are actually preventing what we are, demoting what we have so far. And just these days I'm getting an offer to rebuild the insurance policy, believe me I won't pay for it and I won't provide them again. The way I think about it, I'm probably thinking about some other citizens. And for this reason, perhaps the government should also, as a proponent of this strategy, think in the way that really ordinary citizens think and bring a strategy and move forward the development of the health system as a general good, a general good citizen, because that is why we are here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66807	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66808	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague said a lot of inaccuracies, and one of them is very important, and I think it needs to be corrected. Yesterday on the committee on which I was present, it is not true that the trade unions disagreed, i.e. to show their disagreement with the proposed strategy, but only Mrs. Memorial Veršek, who is the head of one segment of the union, who also, a colleague, who also refused to attend the round table at all on this topic and who sought only rotten apples in a set of healthy as you are now in her debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66809	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66810	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, we ask ourselves a question when this strategy is even offered. The government has entered, well entered the second half of its mandate. It's not the best time to offer a strategy. Strategies are being prepared and written while the opposition party is in place, then installed into pre-election programmes, and then before the strategy parliament comes in the first six months of its term. What have you been up to now, over half your term? You were wandering, you were looking, you had no idea what to do with healthcare. Now you're offering a strategy without following the laws. What does the strategy mean without following the laws? Well, it's such an empty story because what you've offered, this text looks exactly like that. All this should be concreteized through the law and announced, the four health laws should come to this session, they are not there, they haven't even passed the government yet, the question is when and whether they will. This is also not a strategy, so the lesson about strategic thinking was given to you by a colleague, Slavko Linic. Which means strategic thinking. Because you'll be careful that you carry out preventive checks to detect early breast cancer that's very good, but it's not a strategy, it has nothing to do with strategy. That you'll computerize primary health care and that's good and that's the same thing you need. It has nothing to do with strategy. We all know there are 6 billion missing in the health care system every year. There's six billion missing, no one says where they're gonna get them. No one. And that's strategic thinking. How to make health money so that it can function on its own. If it were you, and it's known and what's the answer to that. So listen, if you had kept those rates of GDP growth, maybe you'd have fewer problems. You did not keep them, and they fell; neither will you bring them back to the level where you found them. And you will not, that such a government will not. But without it, without this growth of GDP, there is no money for health care, and that should be said once, and that should be said to patients, not paint them and mystify them with early breast cancer detection. It's a state-of-the-art display. The presentation of the situation, look out, Dr. Hebrang, I trust him, he's one of the HDZ strategists when it comes to health care, he says the state of health is just ideal. That's what he said here today on behalf of HDZ. Well, be careful if something is ideal, then I guess that doesn't have to be reformed, and you're going into health care reform. What you're going to reform is ideal. So let it be ideal. If it is not ideal, as polls confirm, that 50,50% of people are not satisfied with health care in Croatia, then Dr. Hebrang says again, listen not to be trusted, there are different polls, so one indicates where citizens still think that the biggest problem is unemployment, so corruption, and then bad government, so bad administration, so we agree. And corruption, and unemployment, and bad government and bad administration, is that these are all Croatia's problems, that citizens have the right. And the fact that in the fifth and sixth places they state health care is not comforting. That's not comforting at all. Social aspect, perhaps the most important part. Look, you're burdening yourself, you're thinking of getting the money up and moving through these participations, through these fees, fees like they're already called. Of which the people of God, and of those who are sickest, of the pensioners, of those who have the least and then yet, and now you are ready to introduce this property censorship, and for the reason you state, you have listed a tycoon here five times, you have not named him, who has used it... Well, I think that when the tycoons heard this threat of yours you're thinking of introducing an asset censorship that they won't sleep with fear tonight. You can imagine how you'll punish the tycoons. Well, God's people, they ride in private helicopters, and it's not their problem that they have to pay 10 kuna, it's the pensioner's problem. Now, property censorship how, in what way, for whom, what property censorship. What are you gonna do with the pensioner, who's that gonna be? Three mornings land, five acres of land? How much? And what if he's got a little bit more, he's got, like, six acres of land and he's not processing it, and now he's gonna have to pay for the participation because it's going to be your property censorship. Or what I told you about a pensioner who lives in a three-bedroom apartment, and I don't know which one you're going to determine by the number of members of the household. You're gonna make all these people pay for their health insurance or lose their health care. So why don't you bring in the property tax? So get the money into the state's register and then move that money to health care, so that would be a lot more logical than this, a solution like this. Because of all this, because it's not a strategy at all, you have no plan, because this is an empty story, a really SDP club with the best will cannot accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66811	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66812	So I'm correcting the quote that my colleague Stazic said that this government was actually doing nothing, that she was just wandering around and that she offered nothing. Well, it's not like that. At the beginning of the term of office, the government first recovered those huge debts and that is about 3 billion. This government managed to seriousise the management of health institutions, so that the 24% trend in hospitals in early 2004 dropped to 4% in 2003 and kept that trend in 2005. So the consumption of prescription drugs that was 28% in the trend is down to 12, now going towards 8, so something's done. And what you said in the health care system is all ideal, that's not said. It has been said that the health care system is not as bad as the public impression is being created and only facts have been repeated that we did not invent but World Health who placed Croatian health care in Group A, so 35th place among Germany, Ireland, etc. countries that are far richer than us, and that percentage that I have raised in the debate that just less than 1% of our citizens who are being treated in hospitals are going to be treated outside of Croatia, says something about our health care. That's only 600 cases a year. So these are facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66813	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66814	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Stazic, you said that today, colleague Linic gave us a lesson on the health strategy. That's completely incorrect. Among other things, we're talking about health care today, and we're not talking about the recovery of the Rijeka Bank or the Lenac Shipyard there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66815	Final review, State Secretary, Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66816	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs. Since health reform is a continuous process and on the side of the promoter we are particularly pleased with today's debate because it shows a high tension and a high tendency of this House to talk openly about all the problems. The main objectives of health reform, the limitation of cost growth, the reorganisation of funding systems by introducing participations as conditions of rational use of protection, strengthening the private sector, economic measures to return patients to primary health care, strengthening the mixed funding model, defining the package of services, rationalising the use of medicines by creating a generic list of medicines. Seven main points of health reform that says the alternative to reform is to deepen the financial crisis in health and further weaken the quality and availability of health care and the fragmentation of the health system. The reform must be implemented under conditions of lack of financial resources which will make it important to make it difficult to implement the reform, and what eventually led to and how we could hear today stop the reform. It is a document that the Croatian Parliament adopted in 24.7.2000 as a health reform and in which this whole strategy is written in this way. What must be said and what must be given clearly, this reform had a total of 15 points and of all 15 points had dropped, but at the same time it was said to be financially monitored in 2001 with 3 and a half million kuna and 40 million World Bank loans. For the World Bank and for 3 and a half million kuna we don't know where they are, this reform was stopped in 2000. Health reform as envisaged by this Strategy sets out clear concepts and on the trail of some changes so far offers further changes towards the better. It does not bear financial expenditure because only a series of legal and sublegislative regulations that will support this strategy and which will go towards, therefore, improvements in the system will, therefore, also be made to the legal and sublegislative instruments needed. What I owe in response to the honourable MPs is that emergency reception will be attended by doctors of emergency medicine, which is also visible in the strategy where it is said that, in the context of not only the Bologna Process, but in the context of negotiations with the European Union, chapters 3 will discuss both professions and qualifications and ultimately, the catalogue of knowledge needed to establish professions. As for all other proposals in the Strategy, it can be read that they are in the Strategy. As well as financing hospital systems by county, it is clearly and loudly stated in the strategy that it will go towards changing the way funding is financed through a diagnostic and therapeutic system as already pilot is in progress, not in the way that it has been done so far. In any case, I hope that this high home will support the reform of the health strategy at least to the extent that it has been really supported by social partners and all others who have been discussing this document and their proposals and comments on the quality of this document since 17 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66817	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Second. Proposal for a National Health Development Strategy 2006-2011 I am voting on a proposal for a strategy. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 79 votes for, 1 abstention, 23 against. The National Strategy for Health Development in 2006-2011 was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government or the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66820	Mr. President, MPs and MPs. Allow only briefly, as much as possible to tell you what the difference is between the first reading and the detailed explanation that I will give you today in those key segments. This Law, as you know, is a total of about 6 years, which directly, which indirectly includes the experience of the most positive Croatian sport has, but also using the traditions of European sport and all other ones that can help. Of course, we also took a large part of the proposal that was in the Law, which was preceded by the adoption during the term of office of the last government. However, during this time period we have made a significant step in which we have also received support from the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Sports Association of Persons, the Croatian University Sports Federation of Law and Chinese Faculty. As you know, one of the key points that was actually, it was transforming into the Sports Shareholders Society, we used the experiences of those countries that did it best like Spain and of course in cooperation and with law school and present colleagues we managed to make a model that is very clearly defined and which guarantees that this transformation will actually go very smoothly, logically and rationally. The national sport programme, a document that for the first time in the Republic of Croatia determines the future of sport for an 8-year period, which is consistent with those of the most positive experiences of the European Union is actually something that is the basis of this strategic document and that will definitely achieve all those preconditions that are necessary for Croatian sport to make an even greater step. With regard to children in sport, you are also witnessing these days of all activities, and recently in the room of Cibone there has been a demonstration of this one activity in front of 4,000 young people, right through the games that we strive to play, I would say, daily or weekly in the Republic of Croatia, between individual classes, schools, countys, which is ultimately the only goal of every child in the Republic of Croatia being engaged in sports, and they best go to clubs. It is a huge, huge step that I claim is responsible for that Croatia is in front of a number of other countries, I mentioned last time, the eastern coast of America after the obesity of the great children they have, now returning to sport when it is relatively late, or what Croatia already has in its palm today. It is also extremely important to say that special health care for children who are engaged in sports is very clearly defined because you yourself know the situation in the study of sports where experts, doctors are not involved, where they cannot answer those questions at the right time, so that there are no tragedies in the sport that we are familiar with today. When we discussed sports facilities, the Law very clearly defines the advantage of using school sports halls for children. Again, so we don't get into that position we've been in for years, which is that the kids are somewhere on the edges of all the others, so when they come to order. Of course, we have created preconditions for all other activities that we want to provide and build new sports facilities, ban the removal or re-use of sports facilities you know about, there is a great interest in the Republic of Croatia because many of these fields are very attractive for some other buildings. So if it didn't happen that 4 or 5 thousand children in one village actually don't have a sports facility, we made it very clear, it actually goes into history. The establishment of the Croatian Paralympic Committee makes it very clear what the position of the Government is, but all of us in terms of paralympic sport and this Croatia is definitely in line with the system of sports in the world. In particular, it would highlight the establishment of an information system in sport where the databases, information on the activities of all but also the spending of certain funds could be created and planned for the future of the realisation of the national sport programme of an extremely important strategic document, whether it is an amateur sport system and a competition system. I don't particularly need to point out that professional jobs in sports are defined to detail. It was actually the desire of the profession all these years and here a consensus was reached between existing clubs, the Faculty of Kinesiology and all those who are actors today in sports. A similar situation with athletes and coaches and for the first time the coaches and the jobs being done, coaches are defined by law. I don't think you should particularly point out what that means. We had a riot on the ground, one of the philosophical behaviors which Croatia now has the right to say is that side by side of those countries that have the best experience regarding the legal basis of the coaching work. Duje Draganja is one of the examples that existing legislation could not provide a minister or someone who wants a good Croatian sport to subsidise scholarships for top results. So if 20 thousand dollars for top Croatian athletes is going to be educated in Barclay is a big part of the Croatian state, and on the other hand it gets a million dollars I think we have a big problem in sport and that's why it's definitely embedded in this sport. It is about individuals, but it opens up opportunities for both the state and those who are competent to ensure that the best Croatian athletes defend and study, defend Croatia's colors and study in the best places. We've given ourselves a lot of effort here, and I thank Mr. Professor in particular. Petrovic and his associates because a number of university professors worked on this model, they traveled, they were in Spain and they used the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia to reconcile European experiences and it is very important to say that just after the debate and after a number of reflections of all of us, and I have to use one comment, and this is a commendation from the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, especially Mr Vidovic, for which I thank the most part that we adopted and accepted those comments or at the very least explained why something did not work out. For example. very short. In order to bypass the opportunities of certain clubs in the Republic of Croatia that individuals can have I would say the championship in mandatory transformation we have very clearly defined that in the first round the advantage has units of local self-government, but we also made that because of this situation where local self-government is the biggest case and the owner of objects that are used to actually participate in the amount of money that is never less than a million kuna, but where the value of the right to use the sports hall is included because we have actually secured the local self-government that has the right in the first round to become the owner of the club as normal as possible. Who can own "Hajduka" if not the City of Split or the like in Zagreb regarding "Dinama", but also according to the best democracies we have provided, if local self-government will not do so for certain reasons which is hard to believe that in the second round there can be an invitation for members of the sports club, in the third round similar, and in the fourth round the call of the public exclusively in money. What is extremely important is the question of the believers. As we ourselves know the question of the believer is enormous are claims. You know that we've talked about the amount somewhere around 700 million kuna and it's actually money that I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and make it very clear to anyone who's never been fired or forgotten. The state is aware of the fact that never since the first football league or any other league that money will be won and the state simply gives local self-government its right to transfer, and local self-government transfers I would say and run this club in a way that is very well defined and where ultimately local self-government if it can manage public enterprises can also manage sports organisations, but also takes responsibility to run that club. It is never too late for bankruptcy, I repeat it, but if we are taught the experiences of Slovenia, the recent Olympics as you yourself know who have definitely threatened national sport, then Croatia must have more wisdom and not go with a simple law and abolish the first football, first basketball or first handball league overnight, and this is an extremely important information that we need to know and be aware of. On the other hand, on the road of very clear transparency that this Government advocates is an extremely important revision that we have provided for where real debt values will be determined, and the sports club is developing an elaborate where a report by an authorised auditor on the state of the property will determine practically all those rights and obligations that have never been available to the public, but also a review of business in the last 5 years, sports results, a list of members of the sports society and all those data that have long been under the table. On this occasion, I would like to say that the restrictions on membership in sports stock companies are very clearly defined. The same natural person may be a member of the board of directors or supervisory board in only one sports shareholder society, which is very logical. If he wants to be in two sports and stock companies under the same authority, he can't have more than 1% of the core capital, which is again consistent with the most modern democracys. However, no one forbids him to have up to 25% of the basic capital within one club, and if he is allowed by the Sports Clubs Committee, why not more, but it must be recorded and very precise must be determined. It is also very clear that there are no restrictions on the distribution of profits remaining after the settlement of debts. We can no longer allow debts to exist and to be shared or otherwise, but we also cannot allow someone to come to Croatia tomorrow with money, to be allowed by local self-government to go to the club without investing in the spring. Spring is one of the priorities of the Croatian state and we will insist on it when it comes to clubs. Very clear and you know that the public welcomed extremely positive, which is for sports clubs that do not have professional status or who have the status of amateur sports clubs. For them, it is very clear that over a period of 5 years, demand collection is delayed which will ensure that a huge number of clubs are inhaled and that they start working transparently and that all blocked accounts that are practical are blocked and that there are no more black capital markets to ensure either coaches or judges have blocked accounts and that black money is being paid. Those key elements that I would like to single out in the end and say that a few key things have been adopted that have been proposed by a number of debates, a number of individuals, as well as clubs. One of them was a question I said, which is a real first-time share for local self-government units, which is very logical and concerns the territory where that club works. On the other hand, we also agreed to the questions of the manager in sport because the manager in sport is a person who, according to the rules of the National Alliance, is authorised to intervene when crossing athletes from the club to the club and of course it is logical that he cannot be a member of sports clubs, associations, competitions, as well as a member of the body of the sports-stock society. It's a classic conflict of interest and we built it through this document. Of course there were also comments on the status, professional status of sports clubs and competition associations. One of the proposals that was the source is that a club can be considered professional if more than 50% of its members are professionals. We cannot always determine that since there are national sports alliances that have asked that they have in a particular case the right to determine what is very logical and normal and as such it is accepted that national alliances can do so. There was also a question of a national sport development programme that some thought was relatively short, so it was extended to a period of 8 years, for we have certain logical reasons because it is the essence of this document that no policy determines the future of Croatian sport in a period of change of power, because of course this law can be brilliant, but tomorrow someone considers it very bad if the law is passed and if you have a national policy then whether tomorrow some new government loves sport more or less, it must stick to the rules as in any other country and therefore I welcome the proposal of all those to extend it to 8 years, we as such have accepted. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that this debate has led to several failures that were in the first reading that were repaired and definitely by this law Croatia gets a very high quality strategy for the development of sports for which I must look and as a minister and education that along with this bill several other laws go parallelly, as you know. We are now and through the basic law on education that goes through some other documents I point out if you will and through very quickly... the provisions of the public private partnership established mechanisms that we can start building objects that are excellently complemented by the existing proposal for a law on sport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, the National Sports Council, which has an advisory but in which experts sit, will work on a very clear model as done by the National Council for Science or the National Council for Higher Education. Let me tell you just one moment. In Croatia, neither the Bologna process nor the science reform would occur that you do not have an independent parliamentary body of experts who have no fear of telling those study programmes that are no good and those who are good that, or who have the same strength to abolish a study programme that is not right which no minister, regardless of its strength, power or reputation, can do. These are the issues of democracy that other countries have been using for decades and have been very successful as such. I personally welcome you all that is related to the sport of children and youth or November sport which through this law has a very clear future and I would say unquestioned system of values, the possibility of rewarding but which includes all those entities that have been excluded so far. Finally, through this law, we believe that we have created extremely important and solid foundations so that we have not missed any of those segments that have been in discussions these six years. If it happens as always that some of me would say from the illogicality within this law is either seen in the next three or four years it will be very easily subject to change because this law follows the whole logical order I would say sports organisations from elementary school to universities including after that both amateur and professional sport. Therefore, Mr. Vice President, we believe that this law is the best thing that Croatia and all of us can get together and I ask you to give him support to go further with him and to get Croatia a document, a law that has been waiting for years. Because just remember, if, in the conditions of a relative disorder regarding legislation, Croatian athletes achieve such results, what kind of a question will my question be for you when this law sees the light of day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66821	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Here you go. Mr Davorko Vidovic in front of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66822	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with the strong forces of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! At its 31st session yesterday, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Sport as a parent working body. Yesterday we also had opportunities to hear and learn about the amendments of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which was explained by the representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee to the members of the board. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that most of the objections addressed to the proposal for a Sport Act were accepted. The biggest differences relate to the compulsory reshaping of associations into sports stock companies, the reshaping obligation of the sports club, the association in the sports share society besides football and basketball were extended to handball, again in accordance with the debate that was being held here. The registration of core capital is carried out through four or five circles and units of local self-government have the right to first purchase. The paper is that if the creditors do not want to turn their demand into the role of a sports stock society, they can remain believers of a sports stock society. Furthermore, the final proposal of the Sport Act prescribes who is considered a manager. In order to achieve the long-term interests of the Republic of Croatia in the field of sport, it is prescribed to adopt a national programme of sport which will take place for an eight-year period, which will set out the objectives and tasks of development of sport, the necessary measures for the implementation of the objectives, as well as for development and regulatory activities. No comments from the Committee have been accepted in the first reading of the law regarding the possibility of tax relief in cases of investment in sport for reasons such as those mentioned to us that this is not the subject of this law, but we hope that there will be some other law or remark that the law lays down a provision on the exercise of the right to preferential pensions to the credited athletes, on the grounds that it is in the process of establishing a foundation of Croatian athletes to assist the existentially threatened athletes. Now, is that going to be a compensation for what we discussed on the board? That's another question now. We're reporting what we discussed yesterday. After the opening presentation, we held a debate in which the adoption of the Sport Act is primarily supported in order to create a prerequisite for the situation and open issues in Croatian sport, which are widely assessed both in terms of finance and in terms of the status of sports and sportsmen as well as all other persons involved in sports to begin dealing with. The establishment of the National Sports Council is a good move and the hope is that it will contribute to improving the status of sports and athletes through the planning and development strategy of sport development. The debate held that school sports companies should be given part of the state's funding to the local community, which could provide funding for extracurricular activities, as it is difficult to expect that, on the basis of the enthusiasm of individuals, they will develop sport among school children. As regards the exercise of the right to a special pension of athletes, it has been pointed out that the foundation of Croatian athletes will assist existentially endangered athletes but that this does not realise the possibility of granting top athletes the right to retire under special conditions, and thus the community will show recognition to those who have achieved top results in their sports career and contributed to the promotions of the Republic of Croatia. It is noted that most of the law deals with the privatisation of clubs and that such a model will be wronged by smaller clubs that have properly implemented their obligations and whose business has been in compliance with the applicable regulations. The debate notes that the final proposal of the Sport Act, in relation to the conditions that must be met by natural persons in sport, particularly trainers, instructors and leaders, ignores the factual situation. In particular, it raises the question of doing those jobs in small areas where there is not enough college-educated, trained staff for, with the necessary orientations for individual sports. And therefore, there is a real danger that due to the prescribed conditions high or higher will be prepared with a focus for a particular sport of some kind of sports in the small environments to be extinguished. Or to continue to be conducted but on the edge of the law. I must tell you that this has been agreed by both the position and the opposition and the Croatian Olympic Committee and that they have tried to seek solutions but I think we will go with the amendments. I'll go with those amendments. I think the HDZ Club's going to go, and it's going to be, it's going to be accepted. We simply don't force ourselves into a state of illegality because we know that at this point we simply can't, we can't cover it. If I don't explain, we'll go with the amendments. The debate reiterated the principle that the funding for sport amounts to 0.3 of the State budget is not sufficient to meet all needs in sport. In general, looking at yesterday's debate, it seems to me that a lot more remarks were made about what was not contained in the Law on Sports than what was contained in the law as a solution and I would say in particular the highlighted, commendable fact that obviously the creators of the law did not just come to work in the Parliament but actually listened to and respected a large number of the remarks that were going on. It's rated very positive. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Sports with the next amendment. So the amendment reads like this. Article 11(1) adds: “A sports judge referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article who participates in the organisation and conduct of a sports competition in sports for which an obligation to reshape sports clubs is prescribed under this law, an association for competition with sports shareholders in the text below. as well as the person who has been in the last three years cannot be a member of the Body of the Sports Club of the Competition Association as well as a member of the Management Board or of the Supervisory Board of the Sports Stock Society, a member of the Alliance referred to in Articles 46 and 47 of this Act, a person authorised to represent sports clubs, competition associations, sports stakeholders and alliances referred to in Articles 46 and 47 of this Act. Reason: The proposed article provides that a sports judge who participates in the organisation and conduct of a sports competition in football, basketball and handball for which a recast obligation is prescribed cannot at the same time be a member of a management body, a member of an alliance or a person authorised to represent sports clubs in order to prevent a possible conflict of interest or the possibility of direct influence on the results and system of competition. You don't need to particularly explain why this applies to only these sports. Not for others. Here's so much about what's been... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66823	Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Biserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66824	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am glad that we received the final proposal of the new Sport Act relatively quickly from the first reading and although it included a good part of the remarks from the first reading some very important segments of this Law were left unarranged and some solutions incomplete and unsuitable. But let's take the turn. The National Sports Council gives opinions, recommendations and guidelines, debates, encourages and proposes solutions in the system of sports. Therefore, it has a advisory role to play, and therefore this body should be defined as advisory rather than professional. The status of top athletes is further limited by any new proposal of the text of the law, and this final proposal also has only a leading athlete's rights and this law does not solve the basic status and existential issues of top athletes as well as the law currently in force. This applies primarily to unprofessional athletes. I mean sports scholarships, and the pension, disability and health insurance of athletes has been completely kicked out of the final proposal. Professionals permanently resolve their status and existence with one signature when they arrive at the club, but I will say more about it later and in an individual debate. When we talk about coaches or professional jobs in sport, the proposed solutions would theoretically be good under ideal financial conditions. Unfortunately, though, we do not have such conditions in sports or have them very rarely, even in top sports or high-ranking clubs. All professional activities in sports will primarily be performed by trainers with completed minimum coaching school, according to the new law, and the deadline for adaptation is 3 and 5 years, respectively, according to Article 91. At the Faculty, the Faculty of Kinesiology rubs their hands. High school coaching takes five semesters. Each semester costs between 4 and 6 thousand kuna depending on sports or speciality. It's realistic that 70% of clubs don't have trainers with adequate expertise. If we multiply the five thousand coaches by four thousand kuna per semester by five semesters, we come up with a figure of 100 million kuna. I'm afraid that's far from the final amount. Most clubs won't hold it. It is not necessary to mention clubs of the lowest rank which are the only gathering place for organised leisure in small communities whose work is mainly based on the enthusiasm of several individuals who carry most of the financial burdens of club activities. If there is a provision that professional activities in sports are performed only by persons with higher and higher education, more than 50% of sports clubs and sports schools will have to close their doors. In this regard, we need to keep in mind that we do not have the money to educate all people who have the skills, abilities, and will to work in sports. There's no program for all sports at the Faculty of Kinesiology and it only works in four cities. The programme of the Faculty of Kinesiology is physically very demanding and existing persons who work as trainers and there are many over 45 years of age who cannot meet the team, cannot meet these criteria as a whole, respecting even the transitional period for applying the proposed provisions. On the other hand, we don't even have the money to get possibly highly educated persons for sports jobs paid for their work. Finally amateurism in sports is a fundamental principle without which sport cannot exist. Therefore, I think that the possibility of schooling through the Croatian Olympic Academy should be maintained and national sports alliances should determine when licensing coaches especially those who run the highest level of competition in the level of professional preparation. Although so, I also agree that qualified sports staff have to work with children. But it's a lot worse if there's no one to work with. What can happen to the literal application of the provisions of this law. When it comes to professional sports clubs, it is good that the proposed solution distinguishes the obligations of professional players from the obligations of amateur clubs in such a way that clubs that have not established professional status allow for the postponement of debt to the state or units of local and regional self-government. However, a provision authorising the minister in charge of sport, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of finance, by means of an implementing regulation, provides for the way in which the club's claim is to be charged, or worse, corruption. Article 44 says the club owner may become a unit of local self-government in the first round. What would that mean? That taxpayers would pay millions of contracts to players. Who would, who would agree to that? It would automatically take their debt into the wind. And who's going to answer for that? No one. Nice. So again, whoever's in the pit, they're in the pit. We at the SDP club keep such a provision unacceptable. Speaking of membership in the sports club bodies of the competition association, I believe that all persons in the individual bodies of the club can not only but also have an impact on the competition system in the sport. So who else should and should create a system if not the people who work in it and, based on their experience, improve the existing or create a new one? I therefore believe that this provision should be deleted from the proposed text of the law. The Sport Act should be a means of improving work in a club, or sport, rather than an obstacle to effective and successful work, and all members of a club based on membership should have the right to choose and be elected to the bodies of clubs. It is similar with membership in congregations and the executive body of sports alliances when it comes to sports judges, for example. It is acceptable and logical that judges in team sports, i.e. in sports in which the placement depends exclusively on subjective assessment of judges cannot be members of the assembly and executive bodies, because they could influence the order on the table and the outcome of individual matches. However, in sports where the effect of the competitor is precisely measured by the number of hits or points reached over time, either by height or by weight, etc. Judges cannot influence the outcome of the competition. In practice, it is known that in the sports mentioned above, as in many others, the majority of sports workers in the alliances are also at the same time judges, but they cannot really influence the outcome of the competition, and this formulation would exempt certain categories, and it is known that clubs and alliances have chronically lacking quality people and that this lack is compensated by the engagement of the same people in several different roles, as well as by the judge who in most cases perform volunteering. As far as national sports awards are concerned, the proposed text has again proved discriminatory towards neo-Olympic sports, or athletes from these sports. If that had been avoided, I had proposed an amendment so that this would indeed be the Law on Sports at all, not just the law on some privileged sports artificially created multiple caste. Sport financing should also be defined through minimum standards of separation from both national and local budgets, thus ensuring a better and more uniform condition for the development of sports throughout Croatia. I hold the unfounded explanation of the applicant, quote: "As indicated, it is not possible to do so since units of local and regional (regional) self-government, in accordance with Article 137. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is freely available to its revenues in the context of the performance of the business of its work.", finished quote. I wonder how then the minister could prescribe a way to pay public fees related to local self-government. For example, for health care institutions owned by counties. At the same time, laws prescribe money flows from local self-government according to the state budget, and there are no problems. So, I don't think even in this segment relating to sport, there should be any problem with regulation. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines sport as an activity of special state interest, it must have a special place in our society. But if we look at the allocations for sport from the original funds in the state budget that have been planned for years at the same amount of 30 million kuna, regardless of the total budget mass that has grown 2 and a half times over the past 7 years, it is hard to believe in sports as a special state interest, although we are all proud of the success of our athletes in international competitions. When these funds are added to the games for happiness, fortunately we get about the same funds that the City of Rijeka, for example, for public needs in sport, for example, has been allocated to the city of Rijeka, but if I say that about 10% of the city budget is clear on how important Rijeka attaches to sport. If we withdraw the parallel with budgetary allocation for the budgetary activities in culture, it turns out that the allocations for sport are only about 9% of the amounts for programmes in culture, and that the sports budget at the state level is less than the annual HNK budget in Zagreb. We should not be surprised, therefore, that only 10 percent of citizens are covered by constant or occasional sports activities, and it is not necessary to stress the role of sport in maintaining the psychophysical health of people and forming a personality in the educational process of children and youth. In order to change the picture of the current situation, we believe it is necessary to increase the funding of sports through the state budget, as well as to stimulate investment of economic operators in sport through tax relief. That question wasn't even indicated through this law. It turns out that the law too deals with the internal organisation of professional clubs, i.e. sports companies, as well as the relations of legal and physical persons in them, and despite some adjustments, I am not sure that it can solve the accumulated problems in financing and in the functioning of professional sport at all, or that these problems should rarely be dealt with by the state's attorney's office. The problem of football club debts cannot be identified with sport at all, and this law can be put into the function of adjudicating those debts. Health care athletes is a story to themselves. 10 days ago, I participated in a seminar on the prevention of sports injuries from the Croatian Olympic Committee. On that occasion, I found out just how amazing and alarming data. There is no health care of athletes in the health care system of the Republic of Croatia. Here, we just had a health development strategy until 2012 and in my debate I mentioned this very information. Unfortunately, from the latest analysis of the state of health care of athletes who were made nearly 18 years ago, it is evident that 7 centres have a dispensary or sports ambulance partially solved health care of athletes who work in sports medicine specialists. It is Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Sibenik and Karlovac. With the independence of Croatia, the situation deteriorated significantly because the old model of personnel and activities disappeared, and the new one was not introduced, and sports medicine and the protection of athletes fell out of all possible legal combinations. Today, only a small number of localities primarily thanks to cities and sports alliances operate sports clinics in which specialists work while in most areas the work is surgical, uncontrollable and unprofessional. And now the most amazing thing. Today in Croatia we only have 9, I repeat only 9 sports medicine specialists and about 50 doctors who have completed a postgraduate studies of sports medicine. If we assume that the number of active athletes in Croatia is greater than 400,000, it is clear that we have an alarming situation in our system of sports medicine. The only thing that is encouraging throughout this story is the fact that, during the 2003 coalition government, a proposal for a new specialisation called medicine and sports for 48 months was adopted, 33 years after the suspension of medical sports. Due to this situation in the health care of athletes, I find it very important to consider the idea of establishing a Croatian Institute of Sports Medicine at the Croatian Olympic Committee which would play a role in preventing sports injuries and education of sports workers and athletes, and in this sense I have submitted three amendments, which I hope the promoter will accept. Whether you and the other amendments will be accepted depends and tells whether the SDP, or SDP club, will support this Sport Law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66825	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague of attorney Perman when she said that we belong to a caste, that we're privileged to have those three or four sports. Well, it's not my fault I played basketball. If I'd played tennis, maybe you'd have earned in a year like in your entire career for 22 years. ... I did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because you were talking about a caste of privileged people who would be forgiven by the state. Well, we can't forgive anything he doesn't have, only one could create something from nothing, and we know who he is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66827	Thank you very much. We'll interrupt the session tonight. Tomorrow we continue at 9.30 p.m. and is the first on behalf of the HSP club Mr. Pejo Trječević. Good night and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66828	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the session with a debate on the final proposal of the Sport Act. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66829	Mr. President, Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Party's right club considers it inadmissible that any Final Bill should be referred to the Parliament without having previously lectured the entire text in the spirit of Croatian literary language, especially the final bill coming from the Ministry of Education and Education. I'm only going to give some examples from this final proposal of the Sport Act. In fact, the article 1 reads like this. Sports are based on the principle of volunteering. We all know that it is more correct and literary to say volunteering, and then the members of the government can participate as stated in article 4. I suppose it would be more literary to say or write, but I can take part in a debate on a matter. I believe that these mistakes occurred during a poor translation of some of the legal proposals made by the European Union states, such as the sports manager. The promoter should know that, for example, the manager and sport do not literally translate the manager in sport but probably the literary sports manager. We wonder why even in Article 1(2), sport is based on the principle of volunteering. And based on some kind of coercion or force in a democratic society. Not to mention the words "licence," "stimulation," "stimulation" that can have a different meaning in sports. Therefore, the Croatian Party club will ask the Croatian Parliament to also conclude that the Committee on Lawmaking prior to and prior to the publication of the Law on Sports in the National Journal will conduct a lecture on the entire text of the Law on Sport in the spirit of Croatian Literature. The Croatian Party's right club holds that the Law on Sports should significantly improve both competition sport and sports recreation in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, we support the development of sports of children and youth, i.e. what this law regulates, the development of sports in schools and provides places for sports, both children and youth, both in schools and outside. So one word solves the question of sports status and athletes in the education system. We also support the establishment of the National Sports Council as the highest expert body that has the task of taking care of the development and quality of the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia. We agree that the National Sports Council has a president and 12 members appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. However, we do not agree that the Parliament appoints a president and 6 members on the proposal of the Minister of Sport, and the other 6 members who will be in the minority in the Council, three members of the Croatian Olympic Committee, one member on the proposal of the Paralympic Committee and one member of the Croatian Olympic Committee of the Deaf, and one member on a proposal from the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb. We wonder where the sports alliances are not involved in proposing members of the National Sports Council. It is unacceptable for the Croatian Parliament to resolve members of the Sports Council on a proposal from the National Council itself, in which the minister has a majority. Therefore, a proposal for the resolution of a member of the National Sports Council may only be made by the body that proposed it. We also support the establishment of a National Sports Federation in which, under this law, members of this National Sports Federation would be sports alliances, county, City of Zagreb and cities, and sports clubs of the same sport in the Republic of Croatia as it is in this law. But we wonder where the municipalities are. Why are the municipalities left out here? Because don't forget that we have municipalities that are by the number of inhabitants and also by the number of sports clubs and associations far larger than some cities. I'll give you one example. Here is the city of Ozalj and the municipality of Long Res. We know that the Long Resa municipality has many more inhabitants, and in my knowledge there are many more sports clubs, so according to this law, it will not be able to join the National Union. In order to achieve common interests in sport in the field of units of local and regional self-government and the City of Zagreb, sports communities are also established. And members of these sports communities, as prescribed by this law, can also be other legal persons whose activity is important for sport and sport. So, we wonder if then sports bookies can also become members of the sports community, which in our opinion is certainly inadmissible. It is good that this law also determines professional persons in sport as a sports coach, persons trained to work in sports, and sports judges etc. The provisions of this law also prescribe conditions that must be met by persons performing professional activities in sport, and for sports judges also prohibit participation in congregations and executive bodies of sports clubs and sports alliances. According to the proposal of this law, there is a question that, as the promoter himself took for example, a Spanish example of reshaping sports clubs into sports stock companies in most clubs in football and basketball. On the other hand, they also give the opportunity to form sports clubs as citizens' associations. Which can lead clubs as stakeholders to an unequal position as regards the obligation to pay taxes and other obligations to the state and alliances, and sports clubs as citizens' associations puts them in a more favourable position, because according to this law and according to the Law on Associations, sports clubs as associations of citizens can be exempt from certain tax obligations, and they would all have the same rights together. In the club HSP, we hold that a different arrangement should be made for the non-governmental National Sports Association, in which national sports alliances are joined, i.e. Today's Croatian Olympic Committee. We believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee should, as so far, encourage, promote sports in the Republic of Croatia, but also in the world. It should certainly be considered whether the Croatian Olympic Committee should be like now a roof sports organisation, because we believe that this is not a quality solution for all Croatian sports alliances. This law does not prescribe the exact ownership of sports buildings, i.e. we all know what the problems on the ground are at this time, i.e. not solved property-legal relations regarding sports buildings. This law should also regulate the planning of maintenance, use, management, and reconstruction of sports buildings, as well as the powers of both the ministries and the owners of these sports buildings. Of course I mean clubs and local self-government. On behalf of the Croatian Party, the rights can also be said that this law should provide even better and better quality provisions, both clubs and athletes, i.e. legal and physical persons and all other responsible persons in charge of sports in the Republic of Croatia. In the club HSP, we hold that this law does not solve sports problems in the Republic of Croatia, but only relations within individual sports associations, alliances, and communities are arranged. Which is certainly not enough, because quality and transparent financing of sports and sports clubs, associations and alliances in the Republic of Croatia is not regulated. So if we had a quality law on sport financing then the law would solve problems regarding relations within sport in the Republic of Croatia. We keep in mind that this law will not change anything in particular, nor improve within the sport in the Republic of Croatia. But we believe that it is simple under this law to privatise sports in a Croatian way. In fact, this law does not prescribe criminal provisions for those who have made major losses in certain clubs that are now most likely to be written off under this law, and those who have made these huge debts will also be able to manage these same clubs uninterruptedly. And to show it all together and prove it, the reason we're gonna support this law on sports is because the bad guys would say better than anything, and we at the HSP club say, better than nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66830	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66831	In his explanation of sports associations' communities, Honorable representative Trčević cited two cities in Karlovac County and said the town of Ozalj and the municipality of Duga Resa. I'm correcting it in the quote, because both the town of Ozalj and the city of Duga Resa have the status of the city. If you wanted to compare the municipality, then you could take the Municipality of St. Sunday with 18 thousand inhabitants, closer to Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66832	The HDZ advocates' club will share the debate. Representatives Franjo Arabović and Perica Bukvic. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66833	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I also welcome Mr. Minister Dragan Primorac with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed on Monday the proposal for a law that came to a second reading. I think by adopting it, which the ministry adopted many of the remarks made here during the first reading, if it had said so, I would have said one precedent from all Croatian governments and all Croatian ministries. Even yesterday, I had an analysis, so we watched who suggested everything and what was adopted. So there was no political membership but was seen to be good for all Croatian athletes not by the fact that the Croatian Democratic Community has a lot of top athletes in its club but also by all parties lately wanting to have as many athletes in their ranks as possible so that these, too, we have clubs here, club presidents, more or less everything as in sports. We also had in mind all these remarks to satisfy all athletes and professional and amateur and all clubs that unfortunately are in one situation where there was no further exit. When a fellow MP spoke in front of me on behalf of the HSP club, it was repeated by more or less everyone, that the state would write something off, forgive someone. Gentlemen, we at the club were discussing this very issue, because we can't forgive anything when someone doesn't have anything. We can announce tomorrow the bankruptcy of all Croatian sports clubs and what we can charge. Zero kuna. Because no one has anything except maybe someone has a cell phone, someone has a fax or something. It means that this is one problem, but we will leave the possibility that clubs will start working under this law which I hope will be adopted unanimously on Friday and that there will be one consensus that I think is quite certain and that in the coming period it will be able to give the clubs the opportunity to transform into sports stock companies to start working under the law so that those to whom the club is due and most unfortunately, it is liable to the state, so that the state can draw some funds. We're talking about privatisation... in the Croatian way. No, gentlemen, it is determined who can be privatized and which clubs can become sports stock companies. They mean all those negatives that the clubs have made go to local self-government and administration, so it's back to the state. And I'm going to say that the state, that the situation as it is right now in sports. We have great results. So in every Croatian sport we're champions of the world, we're Olympic winners, whether we're second in the Olympics, first, world championships, European championships, we're in skiing, let's say the country that has the least snow and let alone the ski trails, won really as if we were Austria, and we didn't have a law that would still say that. Yesterday, Mr. Primorac spoke of our top swimmer. We could have lost him over 20,000 euros. I guarantee that he asked our representatives to raise that money to me within 7 days and that he would stay in Croatia. So that's one small amount of money given how much he's been getting in some countries where it's a little bit. And the one thing that's going through a lot here is the National Sports Council. I think it's quite understandable that this National Sports Council will be an expert body. It was said that it could be put to be advisory. So who's going to give us advice if he's not expert? I certainly can't give advice on medicine because I'm not an expert in medicine, and perhaps you could say something about sports. So this is for me to be a professional body that will bring one plan from 4 to 8 years to improve Croatian sport. We talked a lot about this law is about school sports. We know the situation in Croatian schools, that schools are built with small halls inadequate for sports. Until yesterday they were some wasps or hangars or something. And as far as we have a school, we know the same thing, that we even have halls. We had a statement that we'd be very good at holding Mr. Minister Primorac when he said that a big project of 20 school halls was going. I have two children and my children train at youth because I can't go to school because school doesn't have a school hall. So the rain falls can't have physical education, in the center of Zagreb. So we all have these problems and they're not yesterday's problems, they're not the problems of the last government, they're the problems of the last state. So we need to pay even more attention to our children, to the school sport where I think this law will solve a lot of questions. That is why we said that we wanted Croatia, that Croatia would be a country of knowledge. We need to make education and coach in sports. Unfortunately, we have today a large number of coaches who have become coaches for the sole reason he didn't have anyone else to coach in those small places. In these amendments that we will submit on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, we will give a grace period of 5 to 8 years that even those coaches in small places where they can't, where they haven't had the opportunity to perfect their profession, can do a certain period but they will have to be educated because we, none of us here in the assembly, would want to give our child to a coach who isn't educated. Because in all countries of the European Community, a person under the age of 18 cannot work unless he is trained professionally to work with children. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this Law because it considers it very good, that much can be done for this sport if this Law is applied. We have this custom of passing laws without applying them, but that's why we're all here together to put pressure on all the institutions that this law and the law that comes after this must apply and then we'll all be better off. And forgive me for my little privacy, we from the Croatian Democratic Community Club want to congratulate our minister on our birthday. Happy birthday, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66834	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, slowly, correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66835	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, counterpart Arabovic said in his discussion that how to make clubs pay if there is nothing in the register except some cell phone or fax. And I wonder, what about managers who count hundreds of millions of euros and city administrations with crutches fighting officials who don't give them permission to build skyscrapers. What money would they want to build it from? And today it's the same as the fate of the clubs, not to say sports at all, and ate the donkey wolf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66836	Thank you very much, but it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, colleague. That's comment one. That you could... And they do? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That they have money? All right, then, all right. On behalf of the Club, part two, HDZ representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66837	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, also congratulated on her birth, your colleagues, esteemed fellow MPs. Let me at first, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, express my satisfaction that this law that we have waited so long for finally before the adoption. I am convinced that it was an illusion when anyone is here, but also from the people whose sport is life, from the very act of adopting this law I expected to solve all the accumulated problems that today burden sports in all its emerging forms. Here I mean competition sport, youth sport, recreation, care and strategy building facilities for sports, but also investment for existing facilities, sports financing, Tax law also related to sport, media and everything else. Also, let me point out how all of this we're talking about, and about sports I'm really experiencing with my whole being that for 30 years on my skin I've lived through all the beautiful things that are related to sports, but also the less beautiful ones that today burden the functioning of sports. However, today from the position of the director of one of the most successful clubs at all, and also as president of the national alliance, these problems are even closer to me, but also clearer ways of resolving them. As far as my colleagues are concerned, I must stress my opinion that this Law can only create preconditions for solving the problems we are talking about, which they have already said a great deal about. I wouldn't be listing everything that's waiting for us right now, but of course the law itself could be even better. But only the high-quality and full application of this Law will contribute to the real goal that we also pursue in Croatia to the democratic community, and I believe that as far as sports are concerned, both by consensus and other political parties. And this is a systematic solution to the role, place, development and progress of the entire sport. Let me also give very briefly in this short presentation one really big support for the adoption of a national sport programme, with set development goals for at least 8 years, and objectives and tasks are known and undeniable. It is a long-term sport development policy in the Republic of Croatia, a programme rather than controversial cases of conditions for achieving the top results of Croatian athletes in international competitions and programmes, not by chance or by means of the conditions for recreational sports activities to protect the health of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There we know all those figures in relation to the other countries that are our first neighbours and I think there's really a lot to be done in this area. At the end of this short presentation, I am personally convinced that perhaps even the biggest gain and I am that, it is mentioned also in the first reading, the adoption of this Law, that it is quite a full hit just to establish a national sports council that is defined as the most professional body that cares about the development and quality of the entire sport in the Republic of Croatia. We also heard a lot of criticism about the election of these members, about their mandates, etc., but I think it's a much smaller problem than the gain we'll all get from sports, the establishment of such a single body that should finally be put on the agenda, just all those problems in the sport that most of us are discussing and warning about. I will only specify what is most important, we know the conditions that young people today deal with sports and that the necessity of a quality organisation is to bring in a network of facilities from sports halls, swimming pools, etc., in Croatia, the question of school and university sports as well. Quality, expertise and education of sports professionals, that's also a lot of talk. But definitely my colleagues talked about it, too, that maybe the most important thing is training people who are about to train these young people who are going to play sports. Whether amateur, recreational or professional. Also the issue of sports financing, tax laws, sports eases, reshaping sports clubs into associations, sports stock companies. The matter of retirement... athletes who haven't found a place in this law in the right way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am convinced that through this National Sports Council and this topic we will put on the agenda. The status of professional and amateur clubs, the role of manager in sports, the role of judges, coaches, etc. In short, with the full support of this Act, we make the number of those who participate in the sports family in Croatia as large as possible in all aspects and shapes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66838	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66839	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Here begins the World Cup soon, the Croatian nation catches a football fever, half the government goes to Germany, they set it all up and a few more days and the country will stop. She will be paralyzed, perhaps not in Istria known this mentality and at football will try to earn something which is clearly fine, but elsewhere in Croatia I think football will be subordinated to everyday life. In this Law, we discussed 3.3 and 8.3.2006. So in five days, it was Friday and it was Wednesday, we discussed it twice. What does this proposal offer? The first thing I'd like to say is don't dream about any professional club obligations being transferred to local self-government. Lately, the local self-government has been planning to move, let's make sense that I don't know about abandoned dogs, the county has to take care of general hospitals which is impossible, which is absurd, without decentralisation, and now it also intends to transfer the status of professional clubs to local self-government. It just can't go away. However, local self-government or local self-government should be removed by law from the financing of professional clubs. They have enough problems of their own from road to social, from unemployment status to general hospitals, from retirement homes to unemployed flats, etc. Transfer the burden to local self-government, not to open the issue of Croatian counties, I think it is unserious. The budgets of our county are misery. Istria County has 200 million kunas, Primorje-goranska 220, Brodo-Posaviska yesterday I spoke 56.6 million kuna, Zadar somewhere around 110 million, Dubrovnik about 110 million etc., etc. How does someone in the government have the courage to talk about professional football, not to open up, say, a debate on the financing of the county? Lawmakers should be forced to stand firm on the ground. Every honour and football club "Dinamo" and the football club "Hajduk" and Rijeka and Osijek, but between them and the care of general hospitals should be chosen from general hospitals, between pensioners and professional clubs should be selected from the care of pensioners, between professional clubs and social threats should also choose this second category of social threats. I absolutely disagree that in any way local self-government accesss the rehabilitation of professional clubs while it is convulsing in a thousand and one problem. The local self-government on the other hand is not the City of Zagreb whose budget this year is about 7 billion kuna with public enterprises and over 10 billion kuna. Local self-government are our counties that have a budget of 60 and there up to a maximum like Split 250 million kuna with 500 thousand inhabitants. What are we saving? General hospitals? No, I don't. Homes? No, I don't. Bankrupted public companies? No, I don't. We're saving professional clubs that are in some way, I won't talk about crime, but I agree with places with which to identify the gro, let's say, Zagreb with "Dinam", "Pula", Rijeka with "Rjeka", Split with "Hajduk", etc., "Osjeka" with the Osijeks. Why am I so perhaps a result? Because I think professional clubs have about a billion kunas of outstanding liabilities in this hour. On 8.3. or 3.3. Minister Primorac mentioned a debt of 700 million kuna. The information was repeated during yesterday's opening speech. In July 2000, Minister Crkvenac mentioned that Dinamo owes the state 303.2 million kuna, the most accurate data from that time, "Hajduk" 192.5 million kuna, "Osjek" 54.4 million kuna, "Rijeka" 47.3 million kuna. So these four clubs to the state there, say in July 2000, owed 577.5 million kuna and nothing to anyone. In the last 16 years, at least 4 000 companies have ended up in bankruptcy, i.e. in liquidation where more than 100,000 jobs have been lost, and in Croatia we are not thinking about reviewing and conversion, nor about bankrupt companies, but about helping football clubs. I agree, it's okay, I also said that with football many identify, we all like to follow sports, sport has done more for the promotion of Croatia than all the Prime Ministers, politicians, ambassadors, MPs together and we owe these people certainly a lot, but as I believe them at this time we owe both to the pensioners and the unemployed and the pregnant and the sick and the disabled, and between those social categories and professional football players I choose that poor. I know we need the law. There's no dilemma. If there's a state that needs it, then if there's a state to write off a claim. I'm not worried about that, but not that these debts are kind of being taken over by local self-government. So if local self-government is going to enter professional clubs, it can and should be prescribed by law, but provided they don't have a single kuna of dubiosis. This is the point, not to let it happen to us as we had the opportunity yesterday to follow a report on Croatian television that the next day the banks are hanging from a dubio for such or such seats and in the graves, chapels and so on. So that's the point, not that the state says as in the case I don't know the general hospitals they're yours, and we'll give you as much money as we have to. We'll decide everything, and you resuscitate the system. Once again, local self-government cannot, i.e. It should not take over clubs in a minus, or it can, but provided that local self-government has no obligation to anyone. Okay, here in the law says the first order is, let's call it a takeover on local self-government, and then it goes on, so administration, public, etc. I will repeat again, our athletes are the best Croatian ambassadors, from the Petrovic brothers, Ivanisevic, Janica, Ivica, our handball players one Ballic, Jombe, waterpolyst, bogarar, our colleagues do not know Lino, Ferenčak, Arapovic, Mrs. Perman. Who else? Filipovic who is not here, etc. And indeed one small country with 4 million and 300,000 inhabitants has fantastic athletes and should admit that sport is clearly costing. It will cost more in the future if we want the result and we need to take care of athletes, but before that we need to provoke a debate from decentralisation, regionalisation, because the current structure I think will ruin Croatia for a long period, and other than the City of Zagreb at this time no other environment can take over or follow any professional club. Look at Split, there's no money, and there's a "Hyduk" going on. Finally, and in some ways, you should consider that these public companies, state-owned companies, Croatian railways are, say, INA, Croatia's insurance, etc. I don't know any professional clubs. Especially what we want to welcome in this law are associations in sports recreation Croatian Olympic Committee of the Deaf, Association of Persons with Disabilities, Olympic and Paralympic Committee, financing of youth or amateurism, etc. We also welcome the network of these sports buildings to unify part of the job in one place, but the question is whether, for example, it is better to invest 350m euros at this time for 4 stadiums for the European Championship, or perhaps at this time, 350m euros to think about investing them in nursing homes or other such institutions. The truth is, if we get to that football European championship, it'll cost us a billion dollars. If it costs 350m euros, it should be taken immediately and not waited in 2012. But is it really better to build 25 schools with a hall of 15m euros or 4 stadiums, 25 nursing homes and it can be built a hundred small homes with that money because the one in Buzet that was recently built with 60 seats cost us somewhere around 2m euros, or is now better to build four stadiums. That's also one of the questions. Sport absolutely yes, amateurally absolutely yes, professionally too. But how to approach that problem. None of us have anything against football, though. I will tell you one piece of my conversation with my bishop Bogetic, who is now in Taiwan who was in no way able to explain to you what country he came from until in 98 Croatia in Paris became the third in the world. He says, the second day the whole island was in cube Croatian uniforms. There, it's the power of football, it's the power of sport. And that power should be clearly respected and that's why people are from politics, and that's why people from estherada, ministers, MPs before perhaps for building stadiums than someone at home for pensioners, but this law gentlemen can't lead the bankruptcy of local self-government. Sports can certainly be used for humanitarian purposes. We've seen how it was recently in Maksimir after this game on that derby where about 2 million kunas were coming in for this little unhappy sick one at this hour, which we believe will also help them get back to these daily obligations as soon as possible. The top athletes are super-paid, but the victim is too big, but I will tell the gentlemen once again for the third time to open a debate on this local self-government because the Croatian local self-government is in front of bankruptcy and then gentlemen and general hospitals, and retirement homes, etc. What is interesting is Article 13 that a person is legally convicted of a criminal offence against the Republic of Croatia, for a criminal offence against the values protected by international law, for a criminal offence against sexual freedom, sexual disorder, etc. He may not participate in sports competitions or carry out professional activities in sports, nor participate in the work of the assembly or executive body of the sports association. If so, neither would our athletes, ministers, MPs, etc. They should participate in such gatherings by supporting some persons against whom, for example, a process against values, quotes, protected international law, etc. Article 7 is correct. And a pension clearly on what some were talking about to top athletes should ensure I don't know about Olympic medal winners or at the European World Cup, that would be correct. That state can do, it's not big expenses. May God be for the sake of promoting the country these expenditures as much as possible because Croatia would "on that sports map" and then generally stand better. The fight against doping, Article 73 absolutely needs to be welcomed, awards in sport too, etc. But no matter what the law is like, it's brave if you're going to put extra pressure on local self-government. So I hope if he wins that local self-government won't get gentlemen in a more difficult situation than the one they're in today. In my court, this law deals most with privatising professional clubs and pulling them out of bankruptcy. All right, I'm against any bankruptcy but I'm not gonna have the responsibility of tomorrow gentlemen to switch to local self-government. All in all, if we get correct explanations about that burden transfer, I think the law can pass and other clubs will support it. According to Mr. Arabovic, there were no exits but some categories of gentlemen have incomparably less than administrations or some professional athletes who question what kind of contribution all this makes. It's true, clubs don't have much but some mechanics who mix in these clubs have a lot, a lot. Finally, clearly, I join the Minister's congratulations for his birthday, I don't know what birthday. Good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66840	Thank you. At 10:15 p.m., it is time for individual debates of ten minutes per item of the agenda. Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66841	Mr. President, MPs and MPs! Thank you from the heart on the cards that surprised me. I'm just going to briefly explain really a few of the facts that are very important at this point highlighted after this brilliant debate because it's actually obvious that we're all approaching common conclusions and it's obvious that this second reading led to those issues that were open in the first reading being more or less come to an end. I would also like to point out specifically after yesterday's debate and it was a matter of a few words about the Institute of Sports Medicine. Of course he's more than welcome, that there's no law to define. I, as a medic, can say that there are several trends completely different how to access sport and it is true that some countries are solving it in a way that through sports medicine they can define very clearly those provisions of medicine that are needed for athletes, but also many specialists can perform those functions and I would say those duties in the field of medicine that never one doctor of sports medicine will be able to work and you know it's themselves about cardiologists, it's about orthopedics and a number of other professions. So it's a question of one approach that's absolutely open and it doesn't need to be limited or particularly stressed by this law as we discussed on that subject. On the other hand, several comments were made regarding members of the National Sports Council they were involved. And these were included through the proposal of the Olympic Committee which directly contacted the alliances and it was precisely the point that through the Olympic Committee which was in charge of working alliances proposed its members. It's a question of recreation that's been touched. This model of this Law is one of the preconditions to achieve a model that has gone far and wide because of material but also because of the issue of democracy, how long they last in Scandinavian countries which, in fact, provided for the construction of new facilities in order for pensioners to be able to deal with recreation free of charge and, of course, to contribute significantly to the reduction of costs and health care, which is far greater than the cost of recreation. And that's why this whole concept of building a network of sports facilities. That's why the role of the National Council. So models that go parallel through some other forms that will build and participate in the construction of sports facilities whether it goes from the State budget, whether it goes from local self-government. And very quickly, I want this opportunity listed, here I see colleagues working in this body. We will also go with very clear guidelines if not to the next government then to the government afterwards and to the public private partnership. We have actually come to an end about this model, an extremely important model that will help us not to go deeper into the deficit so that we can build. I would like to emphasise this occasion also that it is very clear in the law and I ask nicely, if it is necessary we can still talk about it, but not repeat one topic over and over again. This is neither about forgiveness of debts nor about them being transferred to local self-government. It's very clear here that the state as a believer of all claims that we know it can't be charged at this point. It's just like Mr. Arabovic said someone has a cell phone, someone has a fax, and someone has a secret contract. But without this law, there will never be an audit, a business in the last five years. See those contracts that were never available to the public but also the value of the club. If you want to ask, what's the value of a brand club? We can't say today that the value of Hajduk is only in those minuses and those debts if all players are sold out. So brand Hajduka has exceptional value. So look what Berlusconi and others did. They said they weren't interested in the value of the club, they were interested in the brand. And I'd like to say that just now local self-government starts with a zero debt. Zero kuna debt if she chooses that path. But again here I repeat what's important. Local self-government doesn't have to do that. Local self-government can say we're not interested. And that's the point. And that's the key thing. So no one's burdening local self-government. No one. And I think it's very important to conclude this debate so we don't go back to the club. So local self-government if it says we're not interested in sports stockholders' society, no one's forcing them to reshape by law. But I ask nicely for wisdom in doing so. It's true. That's right. Here, look at the law. Look at the law. Here I'll explain, here's the table we can deliver. It says very clearly in the first round units of local self-government can but does not have to participate in the reshaping of the sports club. But why did we go with local self-government? It's a matter of responsibility if you go deeper. So I'm asking you here present which one of us is willing to risk for some clubs that went bankrupt long ago and which of 280 or 270 million kunas now may have perhaps 700 thousand kunas in debt. Who's willing to risk not putting the first point of the local self-government unit. If you don't put it there will be a private and for 700 thousand kuna buy a club from the first football league. Who has the courage to do that? Let him raise his hand. And that's why, and that's why the possibility that we've given is very clear that the local self-government unit, when I talk about courage, is not about the courage of that individual, but about the responsibility of society as a whole that needs to be protected by the interest of the clubs. Finally, the question of the status of the association or of the company. This is exactly how it is envisaged that if the association is professional, even if it is not transformed must respect if the club is in competition, the sport competition must be taken into account for profit and loss, business in the following year and for all audit reports. So even the status of the association evens them about certain rights that are very important to the sports-stock society and which contributes to transparency. Thank you very much. I'll get further involved if there's any further clarifications to the needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66842	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66843	It is incorrect that Mr. Minister claimed that this law does not mean firing debts to debt clubs, which are in great debt. Because he says, and says Mr. Minister, "We know we can't afford them, we can't charge ourselves." How can you not charge yourself? Here, no fictitious or infectious or existing or non-existent contracts are important. It's an important property that's visible to everyone. The one who's in the Republic of Croatia. And as you know from the poor girl you can charge yourself the same way you can charge from these.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66844	Thank you. Second correction by the respected representative, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you must read the law as a whole. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The proposal for a law undoubtedly says that the ePRECE: the legions under this Law will write off debts, i.e. first they will be converted into shares in sports society. He writes a literal list and an assessment of the value of the property and a list of all the searches for the sports club, association and competition. And paragraph 14 says that after the adoption of the Statute of the Application to the Club, it will turn into a core capital in order to convert the credentials' demand towards the sports stock company into roles. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It says "ex position" will be done after the law is passed. This is how this law should be read, and you cannot read it differently. Because he says that the club, the sports-stock society, will make a decision to turn the claim into a stake. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66846	For the HNS Club, the respected representative, Happy Ferenčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66847	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Sports, but before I specifically refer to that law, I would like to say that I think that we all agree that it is indisputable that sport for our country is extremely important, that the athletes who at the most difficult moments of this country have delivered the voice about Croatia in an exceptional way and presented it to the world. And not only for these reasons, sports and athletes in Croatia certainly deserved to have high-quality relationships, to have the state pay much more attention to them so far and to finally pass a law that will in a better way regulate both the question of sports and athletes in Croatia. In this final draft of the law, there must be a lot of good solutions with a lot of things in this law I agree and support. That's what I was talking about in my first reading, so now I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm going to look back at what I think needs to be fixed in this law. Not exclusively from the position of the opposition representative, not because of criticism, but only for the purpose of improving this law for the benefit of sports and sportsmen. I'm asking her to understand me that way, and I'm just gonna say that. And that is why it is not good to say that this law is the best thing that has happened to Croatian sports in the last 15 years, that it is the greatest step towards sports in the last few decades. It certainly isn't and let's not talk about it, because this law will only give us preconditions and that's great and that's good, but until it works out the system and until it works out the right funding of sports has nothing to do with real sport in Croatia. It will be like so far, people will volunteer with a lot of ambitions and wills to work and achieve top-notch results. I'd like to look back on what the promoter did not accept and I must commend the people of the ministry. I can see that much has been adopted by what we said in the first reading, but some other things need to be solved that will certainly not be good for sport unless our amendments and suggestions are respected. It is always said that we have 650,000 students in Croatia. Through school sports societies, we want to enable every child to play sports, and the best to go to clubs and that's the best way to reduce school negativity. I couldn't agree more, thank you very much. I hope for support. Sport is extremely important for children and young people, but when we read the text of the law then we see that only fifteen items are dedicated to school sports society recreation and everything else is based on only three things Dinamo, Hajduk, Zagreb, Split and I don't know what. 106 national sports alliances are in the Croatian state, 106, and we're only talking about who's going to buy who, who's not going to buy. So it's a big grudge in this proposal, the final bill because we know that in these amateur clubs children are raised in the best possible way, responsible and valuable citizens of this country are created. What's safe for criticism is that nothing has moved since the first reading to this day despite our concrete proposals. Furthermore, the legislator determines sports developmentists in units of local and regional local self-government, but at the same time the proposer does not foresee his obligation to allocate money. There's no school sports society without paying teachers to work there. There's no school sports society without a gym. I must commend you here, Mr. Minister, for adopting the HNS proposal for a public private partnership and working on 23 halls. That's certainly commendable. But until you determine that a teacher has to pay for one school activity, there won't be any school sports companies. There won't be any, and that's the problem, that's why they're gone. Oh, no? Furthermore, I would like to warn you of another illogicality that I am proposing is potential. In fact, the promoter says he could not accept a proposal to prescribe tax reliefs in the event of investment in sport, since these issues are related to tax reliefs. I agree they're tied to the Tax Act, but if we're worried about sports, and we claim to love that sport, then it's a pointless explanation. I asked the Ministry of Finance until the second reading to propose changes to tax laws that would allow tax relief to be introduced into sport as is the case in culture. It's been a long time. It's been more than three months before this proposal. However, the government has not discussed this at all, the proposal has not been discussed. The finance ministry doesn't want to make any kind of proposal, so sport remains just promises, months, years go by without any concrete proposal. Furthermore, our proposal to prescribe the right to preferential pensions to privileged athletes has not been adopted. All of us in the Parliament voted our own privileged pensions, which suits us, and the Olympics, the Olympic medal winners, wouldn't do it. There aren't many of them. A hundred, 200 people, I speak to our Croatian state. So why wouldn't they allow these people to have privileged pensions? You answered the following, that a foundation of Croatian athletes will be established to help existentially endangered athletes or you do not understand or understand. The Foundation is working by the Croatian Olympic Committee to help athletes who are at risk, have no money for life, and already the Croatian Olympic Committee is doing so. But the pension is something else, not to mention health, pension insurance that has not been solved at all for athletes in the Croatian state. Okay. Well, that depends. Furthermore, the applicant did not accept any objections related to the need to prescribe technical training at a level lower than the level of university graduate studies to carry out professional activities in sports, in school sports companies. Since he believes that children deserve the highest level of education from school sports leaders. I agree with the kids. You said under 18 only with a degree in university. But I'm asking you, who's gonna know about basketball or the handball section in Babina Greda or the Gundinci where you're gonna find a university professor and not pay for it? How's he gonna work for the bad guy? Well, he won't. We all work for pay. You should live. Therefore, until this is resolved, there will be nothing. Besides, we're consciously working with this thing that people are going to break the law. In five years, we won't have teachers who can do the job. What are we gonna do? We want to put an end to these sports school societies that don't have teachers to lead them. Therefore, I ask you that these amendments that we have submitted there to adopt because the system will not work, it will not be good. This Regulation shall enter The law on sports again is a mistake that I can understand when you look only from the position of football, handballs, basketball that judges cannot be in the executive bodies of individual national alliances. From that position well, again I speak 106 alliances. It's bowling, there's a penguin, there's a skiing, there's all these karate, all the little sports where there's not enough people to work. They're just gone. We're teaching judges on our own. They pay for their own schooling. These are the people from the board of directors of the clubs. They're gone even if we forbid them to do what we're going to do. Leave it to the national alliances so they can handle it themselves. They've been smart enough so far. It'll still be. Therefore, if you prohibit it, if such an article remains in force in 47 you will block the work of small alliances. There's all volunteers, everyone works for a sandwich and tea, and there's no big money for someone to have any interest in buying a judge like it does in these big sports. And that is why we suggest that this decision applies exclusively to football, basketball and handball, and that small sports solve it within their alliances. We have heard one of the biggest objections of this law is the status of future professional clubs, i.e. the forgiveness of debts and their conversion into sports stock companies. Or how else to interpret the fact that the legislator, in the light of the final proposal of the law, finds that the major problem of sports in the Republic of Croatia is the negative financial business of sports clubs. In the text of the law, sports clubs, competition associations are prescribed to postpone the payment of claims by the Republic of Croatia and legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia has a majority stake and the majority right to vote in order to support those sports clubs, competition associations that do not have professional status. Now, we're talking again, these five First Croatian League clubs owe 600,000 kuna. You said 700 all together. What about those other people who paid all their taxes? What kind of message are we sending these people? Go ahead and pay the fools. And those who make millions we forgive the debts of five clubs where players who have millions of dollars are. We forgive them for what? Let the people of God go into bankruptcy. Why don't Abramovic buy or some private why don't you buy Dinamo and Hajduk? I don't know, there's no minister now. Why are we afraid to buy? No one's gonna buy it. Because we artificially blew the value of these players. The market is that it will determine how much a player costs, how much he's worth, how much that brand is worth. If we have a brand, why are we afraid to put that brand on the market? Well, no one's gonna buy it, that's the problem. We'll do the following, we'll let the local community take over the clubs and fund those players' big pay. What have we done? Well, that's what we've got today. In all club administrations there are people from the City of Split, from the City of Zagreb and millions from taxes are given to these clubs. Well, that's what we've got today. We've made one lap, we've forgiven our debts, and we're back to square one, so we don't need that. We warned all of this, but no one will think or change anything. We talked about it in our first reading, we were very friendly, very mild. But I can see you can't hear it. Furthermore, there's a huge gap for me. A white woman has been expelled in the Sports Act. It has been said that, the argument is this, that it has been expelled because a list of citizens who are extremely important for the Republic of Croatia is being made, that this will be done for the next 9 months. So how many of these citizens do we have that are very important for Croatia? We need nine months for that? And for the past two and a half years, what have we been doing? I mean, it's inadmissible, we've invested so many millions in Whitelight, and now we're just giving up. The last government gave some guarantees, so you rejected them, so now the minister has said 100 million again. I talked to him at the Olympics, 100 million in insurance for Bjellosica. Now we're gonna do it. It's been six months since. I've called him three times, asked him, begged him, nothing happens to White-haired girl. Winter will pass, another season so we only promise. So let's do something for that white-haired girl. I've given the amendment to get her back into law, so I'm asking you to consider it. Otherwise, I don't know, it's not gonna be good. I'm begging you, I've spoken to the president of the National Committee now, he said something will be done, that something will finally start on Bjellosica. So please don't just stay on promises to do it. And now I would say in the end, what I think is most important, if we consider this law to be one starting basis that will solve a lot of things, but not all of them, and we need to understand that sports and athletes are above all of us. The law is the basis for trying to regulate relations within sport, and for those who have skills and skills at the same time, or those who really care about sports and athletes, and not who care about their own profits. While the state does not explain with itself how important sport is and how much more resources are allocated to high-quality athletes, we know 0.3% of our GDP, which is embarrassing compared to Slovenia, Hungary, these countries that are around us. They're three to four times the amount of money they spend on sports than we are. 100 million of us stand out for sport in total, for culture it's 900 million, I'm not saying that culture should be reduced, though, increased. But I agree that sport should be given much, much more money. And until such a decision is made, Croatian sports and athletes will depend on the well-willed sponsors and volunteer work of many sports lovers. And the Ministry of Finance, as I pointed out earlier with my inaction, makes it impossible to introduce tax reliefs, i.e. the prosperity of sports at all. Imagine that Kostelici, Davis Cup team, Blanca Vlasic, brothers Skelin, Primorac, Tamara Boroš, Draganja, Gordan Kozulj, Ana Srsen,... I do not think that their results are the fruit of the country's investment in sport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not safe. From my knowledge and alliances in which I act, the state invests a maximum of 10% in the preparation of athletes, 10%. Everything else is the fruit of the work of people who, from those other 103 sports alliances that this law doesn't care much about here, who, by volunteering, collect money from sponsors, or engage themselves to do so. Therefore, there is no Mr. Minister, so I ask you to pass on to him, that his task is to fight for more money to be directed into sports. He's got a fellow Bishop who's doing very well, so he can look up to him. In addition, two and a half years have passed, you have not yet realized that it would be good for you in your ministry to have a State Secretary for Sports to strengthen right for sport within your ministry so that we can then fight for more funding that this government will allocate for sport. Without that, without that kind of lobbying, nothing will happen in sports. And since this text of the Sport Act solves open issues, I said it at the beginning, so you don't think anything's wrong, no, no, it solves a lot of open questions in a more quality way than it has so far. I ask you to reconsider our amendments, our proposals, and if those most important of them are adopted by the HNS Club will then support this proposal of the Sport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66848	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Biserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66849	Thank you very much. Namely, a colleague of Ferenchak said that there were no school sports companies because teachers were not paid. It's simply not true, because there are school sports societies, but dualism appears. The problem is that they are the same children and members of the school sports society and members of the sports club that is gravitating that school, so that the club in exchange for the term of the sports hall actually gives them balls, professional staff, maintains training, gives them equipment, etc. So there's actually a problem that, from which it turns out that this law basically doesn't solve the question of school sports because there are school sports alliances and sports alliances that don't work coordinated with each other. So that's the problem that stays. He says because they're the same kids and members of sports clubs and members of school sports companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66850	Thank you. And another correction, respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66851	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ferencak said that the government had rejected some contract that was supposed to give money to the Sports Centre "Belolas". I read it myself. It was 21 million kunas offered as before, but the funds were not provided. So at all the minus we found in the takeover of power, that 21 million should still come. Good luck to the board of the sports center... She didn't want to sign it, so now she's got this government and the Ministry 110 million guarantees, kuna, and there's going to be a gym, and I guarantee it to you all. [[You don't understand.]] And the ski resort is going already we know it and you know that snow cannons are going already to Beolasica. ... But better seven months than seven years. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because one more thing in the end, let me just say it. And the ownership structure of the Sports Centre of Bellolasica was not resolved until a year ago, no one knew who was who. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66852	Thank you. For the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Honored Representative Miroslav Cacia. Here you go. And Zvonimir Sabati in the second part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66853	Dear Mr. President, state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Yesterday at the end of the opening presentation, the minister said it was a very good proposal, so at this point and best and that it would probably result in much better results from our athletes than it has ever been. I am absolutely in favour of the HSS club to pass the best law, I believe it will be passed if we accept certain well-intentioned proposals, objections in the form of amendments, because it is deserved by Croatian athletes who each day each year bring one medal from major international competitions. 370 medals a year. If the ratio of the population to the number of medals won at the Olympic Games in Athens and Turin is taken into account, according to the IOC data, Croatia takes 16th place in the world, and according to the sport allocations it is 100th place in the world. So there'd be a lot to talk about. This law must support the quality of sports both on the international and domestic stage. By consulting with many people and sports alliances that mean something in Croatian sport, the HSS expert council and the HSS club consider that the provisions of some articles should be corrected for the benefit of all of us, which talk about the National Sports Council, which talks about coaches and which speaks about judges. Here's a brief explanation. The National Sports Council defined as the highest expert body concerned for development and overall sport in the Republic of Croatia is not in line with the provisions of the Olympic Charter in the basic provisions of point 4. which says: The organisation and management of sports must be controlled by independent recognised sports organisations, and the Olympic Charter has the legal power of the internationally ratified Treaty of the Republic of Croatia and the provisions of the law cannot be opposed to such a document. Croatia, the above-mentioned formulation, also withdraws the competence of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which brings together all national sports alliances and county sports alliances as well as all other associations of importance for the development of sport, including the Faculty of Kinesiology, and has the necessary services to take the task of developing Croatian sport in an adequate manner. Part of the tasks assigned to the National Council for Sports shall be the responsibility of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports whose professional services prepare materials for the National Council. With respect to the above, we propose that the National Sports Council be an advisory body which will be attached in proposing a model and a measure for the development of sports in Croatia towards the competent state bodies of the Republic of Croatia. As for coaches, the HSS Club believes that it is necessary in sports clubs in all segments, as well as in schools, to carry out extracurricular sports activities in the environments where there are not enough persons who have the right high or higher equipment for performing sports activities, university education with a focus for a particular sport, to allow them to implement sports programmes and persons trained and/or perfected according to the degree they have to carry out professional activities in a particular sport, i.e. sports recreation by an appropriate institution. Through the programme prescribed and selected by the competent ministry, training and training programmes are conducted by the Croatian Olympic Academy established as an institution with the Croatian Olympic Committee in cooperation with the National Sports Alliances and European or global Federations of a particular sport. This solution is necessary, because if this law is determined in the direction that only persons with higher and higher education, higher and higher education of more than 50% of sports clubs and sports schools must close their doors. In Croatia, there are 106 sports with nearly 8,000 clubs. If every club has two trained coaches working, it's about 16 thousand coaches. The academic community at the Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb, i.e. in Split and other universities in Croatia, can study about 100 people each year with higher or high professional training for sports work and for a smaller number of sports about 20 out of 100. If colleges and universities were able to school 10 times as many experts, or a thousand a year, it would take 16 years for the number of professionals to be required. And what about sports in Croatia in those 16 years? How long will it take to train educated persons at the Faculty of Kinesiology to teach all sports. Because if someone has completed the Faculty of Kinesiology and the title of professors, and works in a sport they never took part in, has not trained, perfected, then the proposed solution is also a failure to play sports. On the other hand, there is really no money for sending all interested persons to education, and after that there would be money to get all the interested instructions on schooling, there remains a problem which is already expressed in all sports clubs and school sports companies and for the extracurricular activities that there is not enough money to pay coaches, people who do professional jobs in sport. Finally sport acts on the principle of volunteering, and amateurism in sport is a fundamental principle without which sport cannot exist. So the concept that the law applies, the coach first degree is not appropriate, because neither the national classification knows the term, but only the name of the profession coach and senior coach. Therefore, it should be clear, in accordance with other regulations, available for use. Accepting the model that the ministry grants approvals for the work of institutions that will implement training and training programmes for persons performing professional tasks in sport, in order to... programmes and lecturers of such programmes, in cooperation with national sports alliances and international associations that care about the development of sports, we consider a good solution for the development of sport in the existing socio-economic conditions of the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] At the same time, we support efforts to allow as many interested persons as possible to acquire high professional training for sports work as those who have acquired the same education to get jobs in sport. In addition, it should be pointed out that it is certainly the interest of each sports association to choose the best persons to work in sport, and it is quite certain that, regardless of the administrative measures that the sport association would commit to the involvement of persons in performing professional activities in sport, the sports association will always choose a more uneducated and most qualified person to carry out professional activities in sport. On the other hand, it is important for the Republic of Croatia to allow as many children, young people and other citizens to participate in sports activities from the smallest place to the big city. This is precisely why we believe that professional activities in sport should be dealt with in a proposed way so that after the law is passed, the number of persons involved in sports should not be reduced abruptly, as well as sports associations operating in sport. The above-mentioned proposal is also in the spirit of the Bologna Declaration, with regard to the acquisition of professional training and continued appropriate training and training for the tasks for which a person has been assigned to perform in sport. As for the judges, in Articles 27, 46 and 47, we consider these provisions to be unconstitutional, and I will explain a little. And not only are they anti-constitutional, but they are not in accordance with the Association Act. It is indicated, therefore, that the provision of Article 12(3) of the applicable Law on Associations which prescribes that the statutes of the association must contain a provision on the bodies of the association, their composition, choice, impeachment, powers, the decision-making and duration of the term of office, and the statute of the association is adopted by the highest body of a particular sports association. Following that provision, it is not right to lay down provisions on the composition of the National Sports Federation Assembly other than those prescribed by the Statute of the Association. The issue of the National Sports Federation Assembly is considered to be not subject to the regulation of the Law on Sports but to the autonomous action of the National Sports Union as ordered by the Associations Act. The Association Act also states in Article 6 that the members of the association manage directly through their elected representatives in the bodies of the association in a manner prescribed by the Statute. Therefore, it is logical and necessary that all persons involved in one sport have the right to participate in the associations of that sport. The second solution is contrary to the rules of sport because it is not a matter of authority so that the legislative and judicial authorities are separated, but it is a sport activity where the trial is only one of the parts of the sport, in a way that the sports judge monitors the application of the rules in the sport competition. Training of judges, licensing and their responsibility for proper work in activities, in the jurisdiction of belonging sport. The application of the rules of sport in the sport competition controlled by judges cannot be in conflict with the competences in determining the system of competition of a particular sport because these are two distinct areas. We further note, and with the following proposals on the possibility of establishing a professional association of judges, delegates, Commissioners, that the logical solution is to be members of the Assembly in these associations and to participate in the work of the other bodies of the association as members of the national sports alliances. On the other hand, such professional sports associations work precisely through their representatives in the bodies of an appropriate national sports association. If, on the other hand, judges, delegates and commissioners do not establish a professional association, they are members of the sports associations of the sport concerned and therefore have the right to participate in the work of the bodies of associations whose members and also national sports associations and other sports associations and communities. And in the context of this, we will propose 7 amendments that I believe will have an understanding when deciding on the final text of the proposal for this Law. I also give congratulations, no matter what he is no longer here, to our minister for his birthday, but also to Mrs. Lalic, who also has a birthday today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66854	And the second part, Honorable Representative Plasimir Sabati on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66855	Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I hope this card didn't come into our time, but well, here, in those few minutes, I'd just like to say in the end that, in the context of these opening statements, we didn't really look back at the privatisation of clubs because we talked about it in the first reading. Not even the manager's jobs, and we haven't looked back on any mixing jobs for which there's no place in sports or in the rule of law. None of us would like the facilities that we've all been building together for years, creating a complete infrastructure to take on a possible person whose only interest would be to somehow call the manager to earn after a athlete and after possible bankruptcy, maybe leave it to the local community again devastated. This should be taken special care, and for the last time we talked about it, and I would like such mechanisms to be created to prevent what we have all created together for years. Since there's been a lot of talk about our amendments I'll just end up saying what HSS especially wants, which is that HSS wants passive, I'll say, television athletes who have a lot, as much as animated as possible in active recreational athletes, and maybe even future top athletes. However, the question is whether we have secured all the preconditions for this school, amateur or recreational sport. Everything doesn't have to happen in school, sports halls. Recreative athletes can create suitable conditions for themselves in social homes and, above all, in nature. However, we cannot let them lead on their own. Leaders must be trained to implement the sports recreation programme. A good example of this is the Croatian Olympic Academy, of which education is now a larger number of sports recreation leaders. For example, the Međimurje County for which it has been qualified for the need of 35 leaders in the association of the Croatian Olympic Academy and the Croatian Association for Sports Recreation, and there are many in Croatia as well. However, what is important to us for recreational sport is that we cannot and must not miss everything to the local community that in one way or another creates a prerequisite for people to meet. Needs have, women or men after their working hours want to spend their spare time precisely on recreational sports, but should be guided by professional staff. And that is why I call on the Ministry to co-finance such good projects, of course along with the local community. And what I would like to say in the end, to remind us all together that in 92, the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports brought in a program of training staff to carry out professional activities in sport. Unfortunately, so far, only 49 programmes have been verified, and what about the remaining 57 programmes of the total 106 national sports that exist? That is why the ministry should initiate the production of these 57 remaining programmes so that we have verified all 106 sports in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66856	Thank you. For the club of representatives of HSLS, the respected deputy vice president of Dom Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66857	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This proposal should deal with all issues relating to the performance of sports activities, the performance of professional activities in sport, the status issues of athletes, sports clubs, the health protection of athletes, sport of children and youth, persons with disabilities, inspectional supervision, other public needs in sport, and it is absolutely certain that this Law does not solve all this, but it is good that the issues are opened and we should start to open them. One of the questions was certainly the revisions that should be sent to clubs, only it would be good if these audits did not have the status of confessors they had in some other institutions, so at the end of the day all they find is well forgiven or goes into obscenity. That's when we don't need this audit. It is right that sensitivity has appeared here and it certainly has nothing to do with position or opposition, which is that a model appears to forgive the rich and charge the poor. It's just the fact that clubs don't work that way from today. What the law certainly won't solve is a relationship that makes citizens more sensitive, other citizens than us, and this is where the issue opens. It's the relationship between rich managers and poor clubs that collect donations. As well as youth and without elementary conditions for sports activities so that in the halls we have full recreationals in attractive and sports terms, but that's why we have girls and boys who can get those same halls after 22 hours because of course neither local communities nor their parents can pay them, and we have cold halls. We don't have tax breaks, we have taxable donations and too few sports halls, and in the meantime we do laws or programs in the fight against addiction. Clearly, no strategy against addiction will produce good results if we do not allow young people to have a healthy life and life with sport. However, on behalf of the HSLS Club, we will not seek what is impossible, which is that you build 100 sports halls by the end of the term of office next year and arrange all sports spaces. That would be unrealistic. However, what you can do, which has finally started to be talked about, is speed up the Law on Public-private Partnership. Investors are waiting for these laws, coming to cities, finding places, going to our people with money and knowledge in Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and some other countries that will have a faster administration than we do. Local authorities, at least some of the cities, including Bjelovar, know that it is similar with Koprivnica, have prepared everything that the local community can prepare, but there is no Law on Public-private Partnership. There's a promise we got that the law will be over by Easter, we're still waiting for it. We have summer, autumn, and what if investors start leaving? The importance of professional clubs is indisputable and as ambassador to promoting Croatia, but I remind you that young people are also important, the youngest without physical training. Namely, still in Croatia in smaller towns, in municipalities, not to single out particularly some parts of Croatia, young people in their schools have a body when it does not rain or when there is no snow because they have no halls and that is our reality. And also the fact that it is unacceptable that then for punishment or because it is a bad time instead of physical compensation for the hours of mathematics or some other items, but we are opening up the question of how do we get the funds to local self-government while all taxes go to Zagreb? We've got firefighters, kindergartens, schools, and now we're gonna get clubs, and of course we're bound to be more concerned about amateur sports, about disabled people, about young people, about pensioners, and we're talking about how important it is for prevention, but the state has to set priorities. It can't be a model of what the state and the state budget can't pay for city budgets. We can't eat local budgets. So we can't solve everything by this law, that's clear. Even though there were not many major objections, we should really think that the law was implemented especially from this first chapter where I cited what I was trying to solve only if tax funds were decentralised. As for certain articles that I hold to improve, I will draw attention to Article 9(3), which discusses extracurricular school activities. We must take into account, therefore, that a large number of environments with a shortage of persons with adequate professional training, so I cannot satisfy these articles, I cannot do the job of coaches. Time should be set for their education, and by then the criteria will be reduced because the question will be who will work with these young people. Article 17 states that the required obligation is that units of local administrations and self-government should allocate part of the funds to meet public needs in sport, and the Constitution stipulates that units of local and regional (regional) self-government are free to dispose of their own revenues in the context of performing their business in the area. At least a provision could be added to prescribe the minimum amount of those funds, and then the rest should be decided by the cities. I must remind you that, in fact, it is a slight surprise where the minister says the law will not oblige the cities to take over clubs. So that's why there are lobbyists, that's the transfer of hot potatoes to local self-government again. In Article 71, it would be good for units of local regional (regional) self-government and the City of Zagreb to be able if they wish to establish a sports clinic as another new segment within the health care of athletes. And while the minister has talked several times about taking over clubs and erasing or writing down clubs or the obligation of cities to settle them, I will remind you that clubs with professional status have millions of contracts for their players, we know that some of these clubs have losses and debts, and our counties and cities often have fewer budgets than the amount these clubs are dealing with. So the law is repairable, not the only one who can solve this area, but we need to agree on what the next phase is after the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66858	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66859	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry! Now, I'm sorry that the minister left in the meantime because I think this is a really important topic for the development of Croatian sport at all. I'll stick to the status and rights of athletes in my debate. One of the variants of this law that could be seen in recent months was provided for the right of top athletes to pension, disability and health insurance from the state budget if they are not secured on another basis. This is particularly important for athletes who do not have professional status while professionals are dealt with in accordance with labour and employment regulations, so they are not interested in quality solving this problem. From the original purpose of the first reading, only Article 9 of that proposal left the right to basic health insurance due to violations of order and occupational disease in accordance with a special regulation. But what would this mean, in practice, and what specific regulation was meant to remain a mystery to guess forever because the text of the final proposal and that sentence turned out to be so that the athlete is completely unprotected in the event of injury or disease as a consequence of sports. Here I primarily think of the top athletes of amateurs with professional obligations but practically with no rights. Unfortunately, they weren't even introduced into the health development strategy that we had the opportunity to hear yesterday, so they're really on the wind. I propose that this provision be returned to the text of the law in such a way as to adopt amendments that I have submitted in this regard, but we will do more about them when there is a debate on them and a vote on the law. I note, for example, that Slovenia has solved the problem so that the top athlete has the right to pension, disability and health insurance, insurance from injuries and maternity benefits if his income does not exceed the average average personal income in the Republic of Slovenia, of course, under the obligation to behave in the spirit of applicable sports regulations and to respond to a call to the state. The salary is received through an individual ministry as his employee. With amateur athletes, the only thing that has been decoded is the adoption of a category solution. All other rights are merely declarative because there is no mention of the way and mechanisms that even a athlete can achieve and what will happen if he fails. There are other provisions that a categorized athlete has the right to a sports scholarship which, unlike the first reading, when it said they could be paid off by the Croatian Olympic Committee, the county and city sports communities and clubs now say they pay it off. At first glance, great, but at the end of the sentence it stands. I quote the end of Article 7(3). "in accordance with their general acts." So, if their acts say they don't give scholarships, the athlete stays on edge and then they pay no one anything. What changed compared to the current situation? Nothing, too. Thus, the situation remains so far, i.e. the funding for scholarships in their budgets is arbitraryly determined only by some cities and no one else. For all I know, this is about Zagreb, Rijeka and Osijek. And it represents a quadruple, double and even a single average personal income in the Republic of Croatia, which are provided for the first, second and third categories only dreams and fairy tales of buried goods. In addition to the fact that scholarships pay only the largest cities, in a multiple amount of less than possible, they have also arbitraryly introduced an additional limitation of the right to an age-limit scholarship, for example, a third-class athlete over the age of 22 in a river or 30 in Zagreb cannot exercise the right to a scholarship in breach of the provisions of Articles 3 and 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on respect for rights and equality before the law. The result of such a situation is the departure of quality athletes from smaller backgrounds, which often results in the shutting down of clubs and, by contrast, the concentration of quality in large cities whose clubs often have much greater appetites and ambitions than real opportunities, resulting in debt clubs, non-payment of obligations or pre-bankrotic conditions as called by Minister Primorac when we discussed this proposal in the first reading. The top athletes of amateurs, especially from media unexposed sports, would for the time being mainly declareable rights when legally binding foreordained would often be the only source of income for further schooling, sports dealing, or at all for everyday life needs that require the commitment of a top athlete. I therefore propose that the law establish a single and binding and minimum amount for individual categories for the entire Republic of Croatia and that the amount of the first category be paid out of the state budget, the second one from the county budget and the third from the city budget or municipalities, and not that, as so far, on the road from the city budget to the sportsman's account, each cut off a piece of cake, first the sports alliance, then the club and the athlete, which remains, if any. I also propose that only non-professionals have the right to a sports scholarship, given the always limited budget and the fact that professional athletes are guaranteed through their contract and they are also more than the amount of sport dimensions and scholarships, so I have submitted the amendment in this regard. Article 7(5) lays down the right to scholarships from the state budget for medal winners. Given the small number of such athletes and therefore the negligible amount for the state budget, I ask the question of what is with the neo-Olympic bearers of world medals. Is their world another world with smaller countries and thus less competition? Is their efforts less? The answer is familiar. Of course not. It's just less media attention to these sports. The question arises why even top athletes from non-Olympic sports who are also non-profitable and media unexposed sports do not provide the same opportunities, conditions and relief. If after a relatively simple statistical analysis, such expenditures are too much of a burden on the budget, for example, could be limited to gold medals at world championships but certainly for all types of sports and not just for some God-given ones. Because the name itself says this is the Sports Act. Therefore, the overall sport and its purpose must by no means be to give additional privileges to those athletes and athletes who already have them with the social status of that sport. It's also contained in one of my amendments. I'd also like to say a few words about state awards for top sports achievement. The provisions of Article 82 of the prizes are awarded practically to the entire delegation which was in a certain contest when it comes to Olympic sports. However, when it comes to non-Olympic sports in paragraph 2 of the same article, the situation is very different. This award is not automatically awarded but, I quote, "can be awarded to a sportsman, sports team or professional person for the winning gold medal or first place in the world and European senior championships in the NeOlympic or non-paralympic sports that have a longer tradition in the Republic of Croatia and in cases where individual or sports team's sporting achievement has a special international value and significance." And now comes from the act: because I wonder who will determine what a longer tradition is or is it a case that a sporting achievement has a special international value or not? What exactly is the international value? Is that the first place, is that the world record? So as not to have doubts and doubts about anyone's assessment or assessment, I've also solved this failure with an amendment. And let me just say two more words about school sports. I said just before when my colleague Ferencak spoke, however, the system of club sports unfortunately and the question of dualism between school and club sports under this law is basically not resolved. Namely, the system of club sport in particular, primarily ball sports went far. I'll give you an example of the handball. The younger category competition system implies a competition in 7 categories. These include primary and secondary schools while the current system of competition in school sport comprises mostly seventh and eighth grade. So just one category. The continuing competition of sports clubs is not possible because the same children are also engaged in the system of sports, sports club competitions at all levels from city through county to state rank. Furthermore, due to lack of sports space, the competition is being held during the week, requiring a lack of teaching. The issue of extracurricular activities of school children, the compensation of school materials, the involvement of external co-workers, and so on. Here's because I see my time is up, and I'm thanking you, and I'm going to say a few more words on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66860	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66861	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Although this morning, Minister Primorac brought in a strong team of government representatives to represent and defend this proposal for a sport law that has already been announced in the public and which, already in their own words, will figure as a law to which, which brings sport, or that nothing good has happened to sport yet, as will happen by voting this Law. But here's the minister suddenly gone. And why isn't he here? Because Parliament is often a slippery terrain, and then it's just like in court. You never know where things are going. And the criticisms are on the move, and I'd say if it was already about the Sport Act that it wasn't sports leaving the field, even under these conditions. This Law of some hundreds of articles if, if we even corporate and the provisions of course, when the law is to be applied suffers from the Legislative Committee itself 40 or to be precise 39 amendments which are predominantly nomotechnical in nature. And I ask you so one praised law, almost 50% and 40%, respectively, to be quite precise amendments to hundreds of articles. It's a matter of honor to withdraw the law because of it. After all, this bill comes from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It is of the principle that so much, which is so proclaimed as own in this ministry, and then there is the Legislative Committee that it must react in such a way as to teach only the Ministry not to say the adjective but the extension and so on and so on. Not to mention those who are also nomotechnical in nature but who are probably for the Ministry alone complicated and concerning compliance with other laws. First of all, with the Banking Act and the Company Act. So when it comes to reshaping companies existing in companies, of course, it had to consult and I am largely the Company Act. And when it comes to bankruptcy and then the law on bankruptcy with all the changes, the truth was enough and it wasn't, I would agree with a simple job, but precisely ease, or the weight of the task is no reason to give it up. It is not the first time that one law says one thing, and then the other laws do not fully comply with the provisions that are general norms and which are practically this law, the bill in that segment is the derivative of this fundamental law, and it denies it both the basic settings and the fundamentals. It is something that is inadmissible in a country that claims to become as legal as possible and then democratic as possible. What is commendable as an intensities in the Law popularising amateur sport, greater resources, affirmation of the constitutional principle that sport is an activity of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia almost falls into the water if we look at the necessary funds to be allocated to this Act. That is to say, what every proposal under our Rules of Procedure should include is an assessment of the necessary means to implement the law. The government, respectively, says itself that the 2006 budget has increased funds to implement the Sport Act. So it's already been planned and it's good to have it planned. And that increase in resources where will it go? Here. The promoter himself says: "These necessary funds that have been increased for this year in the amount of $155,000 will go right to the administration, or to the formation, of the possibility of working on a national sport programme of 370,000 kuna. So for making that national program itself. Then for the establishment of an information system in sport 585 thousand and the work of the Croatian Anti-doping Agency 500 000. And exactly when you add it up, that's that whole million 455,000 kuna. The law shall enter into force on the eighth day following its publication. To assume it, it is to assume that most will vote this law and it will come into force after 8 days after it is published in the National Journal. This will also bring into force any other financial commitments that lead to, which should lead to the declared principle of affirmation of amateurism in sport. Starting with school sports companies and so on. Because the state is bound to pay exactly the schools that have these sports societies that are even mandatory, which is good. However, where are these funds? These funds are not secured and we have an old story again that good announced solutions will not be respected, not only is it a disappointment of those who expect, especially amateurs and amateur sports, sport a lot of this law itself, but in a way it plans the state or citizens' trust in enforceability and law enforcement, and that is then a bad message and according to addressees to respect the law. He won't be able to be respected because no cash is provided. But what will certainly happen, and that is what is again, although it is quite clear from the express legal provisions I denied the minister that those great debts, the millions of debts of individual clubs will be analized and that is something that is certainly not good. That is what we have warned, but there is no real answer to such a fundamental objection. And you see, criminal provisions provide for penalties for both authorised persons and local self-government units and for legal persons themselves unless they respect certain provisions of this law and, of course, certain funding imposed by law here on local self-government units. But he doesn't say anything unless the government acts in the same way, or the state itself. So is there anyone there who can also be punished in an adequate manner according to these same criminal norms or criminal provisions that are provided for all those who violate any, or precisely those important norms so that the law can function. There's no such thing as a rare place. The first article already states in its general provisions of the section, i.e. the scope of the act itself, and in its paragraph 4 of Article 1, it reiterates that sport is an activity of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. I believe that it is primarily unnecessary to rewrite the Constitution, and if we are to prescribe what is not bad again, because when we rewrite it we will probably remember that we are constitutionally and act, then it cannot be a copy of the express sentence of the provision of the Constitution in the fourth paragraph. Then she must be already in the first paragraph. And it is a good message that sport is an activity of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia, but not that I am afraid, but it is fully evident from the assessment of the necessary means to implement this law. So for all those announced good solutions will not be possible, it will not be possible in practice, their conductivity. We can see that from the very sports companies that talk about sports and halls when our children are still going in big cities in three shifts. So it's all well-known, but the norm itself as soon as we've installed the norm doesn't mean we've solved the problems. But then, of course, this law should neither present how this law would, if it were to be so simple, then these other solutions that are very necessary, that is, everything behind what it requires and the great financial resources shouldn't be spent as much, but it would simply be possible to prescribe it by law itself, and the law is not detergent itself, because neither does such detergent. And today here we have fine started in this House with birthday congratulations, so then party colleagues, party colleagues congratulated the minister and I don't mind that for the sake of good wishes anyone should always find time and places. However, just from the ministry that favors the main principle, the principle of excellence is quite unimaginable not to congratulate one Ivan Djikic, one of the scientists of the world's voice, certainly does not bear the principle of excellence, and neither does the sports spirit or sports spirit as you prefer it simply does not tolerate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66862	Thank you. Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66863	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, especially respected fellow MPs. I'm glad you're worried about where I am. I'll tell you. I was just with Mr. Zdenko Kozul, who we received from the European chess champion who came to the government to comment on the law, but to congratulate him and give him the first prize that happened in Croatia for the first time that Croatia had a European chess champion. On the other hand, you also mentioned Mr. Djikić, who I was with in America for several years and my colleague Đikić got a card from State Secretary Wikić Topić because I was outside Zagreb and was congratulated and he said it and of course that the criterion of excellence is that I believe all of us together not only this ministry but also the Croatian state, and there I wouldn't have doubted it at all. Just a few comments about the white woman because that was the debate exactly when I had to go because it was a reception. We are now in a situation where a complete revision of the existing project has been made and for your information squares, which has been predicted to be approximately 16,000 square meters, we have, for the sake of costs and for reasons of justification together with colleagues from Bjellolasica, reduced it to about 10,000 square meters and the designer completes the final documentation so that Bjelolasica can quickly, very quickly go to the competition. And the white-haired question actually speaks best so far is about 110 million of what we think of white-haired. Actually, we think together. So it was during the term of office of the last government, with the difference that we are now starting with project documentation. On the other hand, the question of the Sport Act, I agree with you, of course, that it is almost impossible that this Sport Act will solve all the issues because they are piled up. They come from a period of the former state and simply cannot be held accountable to it by anyone in the last 16 years. That was so much sport holes, because it was absolutely not the priority of this country. However, what we have done now is definitely a prerequisite for this law to open I would say all those opportunities that sport in Croatia deserves. I'll only tell you one example. We talk all the time about seizing out for sport. We are all aware that without strategic bodies, such as the National Sports Council, I repeat here again and another time the National Council for Higher Education is because the strategic body that helped the minister and everyone in higher education to make changes that would never occur in the Republic of Croatia. But the National Council for Higher Education, if you allow me before the budget was created, has given its opinion and helped to make segments that would never be financed to be financed. It is the obligation of a law that provides for the role of the National Council. I am therefore convinced that there is no reason that the National Sports Council does not work on the same principles and actually helps finance sports in the way we all want it to. There was also one question about the Secretary of State for Sports. I heard when I was going out. Well, you see, we're really in the ministry doing the maximum in one mega ministry that's probably the second largest in the country that cares about about a million and a hundred to a million and a thousand hundred hundred which directly, which is indirect people. I think, for all of us, this ministry, regardless of the burden it covers from preschool education, has managed to bring the law to an end. And of course it's necessary and ultimately we're thinking about these models how best to solve sport. But at this point, at this point, this law has created preconditions for all other forms of sports organisation. If you want to think about a separate not only administration but a step above that. The issue of information. If you'll just give me a few words. Nothing so helpful, I'm saying it from personal experience, the education system, the higher education system, the science system as an information system. Croatia is among the two countries now in Europe where the application of scientific projects, the review goes through information. Let me tell you one piece of information that personally worried me. About two years ago, we had an analysis of the situation in Croatian schools and it was necessary to say how many students regularly come to schools, what kind of attendance, what gender absences, by age, by county, are for all 600,000 pupils. Absolutely no record, no statistics and we were gone I would say at least nine to ten months to bring this situation into order. There is a similar situation with regard to information in sport. We don't really have any today, what Americans say is a database or a database that we call to know who actually participates in sports activities about clubs. Well, we had a competition recently, what I said with the Slovenians in Cibona. We've had a lot of trouble knowing which kids are in the school sport competition system. Information is necessary. Information should be done wisely by modelling those who have experience and it must be a lasting solution from which the Croatian state will benefit not now when children are in primary and secondary schools, but rather follow them through their development for the next 15 years. And that's why information is important. On the other hand, the question of the National Council. The National Council, it should not be afraid of it, it is not competition with the Croatian Olympic Committee and the National Council has most of the Member States of the European Union. But it's good to have some ideas profiled twice. I don't think anyone should be afraid of the truth. If the Croatian Olympic Committee and the National Council work together and make decisions then I think that filter is definitely with 13 experts and is very good not to miss something wrong. And I assure you, in all the changes that are being made in reform, there is no such wise and wise minister, no other body that is not wrong, there is no. And that's the point. It just doesn't. On the other hand, I want to say that there was one question where there was a certain fear that I think very wisely solved was the proposal of a colleague, the second, we went for 5 years. I think this period of eight years, especially in those environments where we have a lot of kids who do sport, and where we can't get highly qualified teachers who have finished kinesiology that a period of 8 years is very acceptable. Well, those who want to invest in themselves have eight years to invest. For 8 years, schools can be completed, and in those 8 years, those who are experts, but not to graduate from college, but to have completed training schools can deal with children. So we will not compromise, as it may seem at first sight, that in Croatia, in certain villages or counties, the question of dealing with children with sports will be compromised. I also think it's very important to say a question about judges. I pulled two notes here. No matter what anyone thinks it's unconstitutional, I'll tell you what the Constitution says, but it also says logic. I don't think any of us present here can say that it's for a person to judge in a competition system if the judge is a member of a club. I think it's impenetrable, no matter what may not be settled with all the legal grounds. But I think logic says that. And no, I mean, I just don't know what the problem is. But with the constitution guaranteed freedom of association, as well as freedom of entrepreneurship can, even the Constitution says limit if it is in the general interest. And it is in our general interest that there is no conflict of interest, because conflict of interest in sport may be the most devastating, because there are children and all of us who are in sport who see direct effects. And another area where conflict of interest is very dangerous is the issue of education. I have witnessed this since the beginning of my term and unfortunately it is not easy to remove. Here, that was a brief explanation of these few points. I think the debate is great and that we actually touched the point of the problem. And those questions that we can't solve, I say openly here, you've seen that we have a tax law that simply opens up this law to force all other entities in this society to step forward. That's why this law is important. He is making fundamental settings, but also fundamental criticisms of the existing system so that we can improve it. And it is never said that it is the final form or final alpha and omega for all questions in sport. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66864	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister said that if we wanted to push the ministry, it was wrong of everything that was going on in the sport. Well, of course this ministry isn't wrong. It's, it's a long period, everything that's been going on in this sport, and clearly this ministry can't solve it. But what I'm saying is, we need to lay the right foundations now. So, all that we've told you, I'm asking you to install the Sport Act so that these things can be corrected and to make the advantages of moving on. Two, as far as the white woman is concerned. I didn't say you didn't give the money, I said you promised it would be, and already... It doesn't happen on Whitelight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm talking about pools and swimming pools, and I'm not talking about ski resorts. The season is ahead of us. Nothing's happening. I'm in the O.R., I've begged you a few times already. And finally the judges, yes, the third thing I wanted to make right. You have to tell the difference between football judges and judges in small sports. There's no conflict of interest there, there isn't. And they all want to... Go ahead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It won't be able to function a small alliance without it. So I ask you to study this amendment well to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66866	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66867	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, nothing's changed in the final bill since the first reading. There was also a debate here in the first reading on the concept of law, and now it is mainly about the concept of law. And I think that the proposer of this law, so the government declared one goal, while norming something else. So the discrepancy is between the objectives that the proposing here presents and norms what he solves. Why do I think that is? The promoter would like to order that he edits school, amateur, recreational sports and that this is the fundamental objective of this law. Health of society, individual in society. And the point of the law is professionalizing sports and only in three: football, basketball and handball. It's content and the essence of the law. We can hide as much as we want when, in reason and in the norm of Article 40, 43, 42, it continues to be arranged that current debts, current claims from clubs in these activities will be converted first into shares of creditors, and then eventually write off. Why do I think that is? Because a state or public companies would turn their debt into a stake in that sports club in the first phase, so if they won't write it down, then they'll still have a bottomless bag. That's the point of the law. We can hide, that's the point of the law. Even the promoter says in an explanation that the template, that he found analogy in Spain. But this analogy applies only partially, we forgive the debts so we will still be either public undertakings or state owners of these debts, and still those who manage these debts will become owners, i.e. dividends, rents and all that, and we will continue to leave you to worry about sports. That's how it's gonna stay under this law. I do not doubt good wishes, I do not doubt good intentions, but as a result of the manipulation of the entire Article 43 of this final bill, it is first that a commercial audit will take place, rather than a state audit, to determine the facts in the current state of finance and business of clubs which are concerned, but a commercial review for the needs of people who are there now will determine the state of all 17 or 20 points, Article 25 of Article 43 and will therefore establish a statute, and on the basis of the statutes will decide to convert the claim into shares. That's the point of it. If we accept that, of course we need the law, it is not controversial, it needs two laws, because the different relations and needs of the Croatian state are important in two laws, in two. One is amateur, school and recreational and it is one relationship and society and within these clubs. The other is a professional relationship. So if, say, a football club wants to be a professional and get support from the state because we have an interest, let's agree, we'll give a club that will become a champion in the KUP, what's the name of the KUP winner, 100 million euros. Let's make a deal. And it's a correct relationship. It's a proper relationship. Not from taxes and claims to give to clubs to continue with the same activity. Even when we bring it this way, the Constitution says that the law solves future relations in society, and the government now offers us through law, and this is its task and the Ministry of Finance and your minister, to resolve the issue of current debt claims. There's a tax bill, tax or whatever it's called, various taxes, there's as many of them as you want, and it's settled in the administrative procedure, tax procedure, and not to push the law, so through the law, we're going to release the tax obligations of the current clubs without a certain fact, because it's only now that we have to go audit into clubs and figure out what the situation is. We say that we will release you from the obligation to pay the state and the companies in which the state owns or local self-government more than 50% and we are still incorrect towards minority owners in these companies. We act if we own 50% as state or local self-government, we don't care about the rights and needs of a minority owner. In this way we are actually sending the entire system that stockholdership or participation is a paramount to the supremacy of business, the supremacy of decision-making. We don't respect the interests of a minority owner. We'll just because we're the majority owner, tell them to write off the claim to the club at some company. It's written there. That's what it says. So let me make my point. Of course we need the law and, of course, that the attempt is very good, but work in one law so significantly different two social relations, professional sport and a professional club, so a stock company that has its obligations on the market and amateur, school or recreational sport where society is interested in developing from quite other goals, it is simply not possible to regulate through this approach in norming. Maybe you should at least write right away that the state is denying tax claims. Why? Because in a year we'll be here and we'll say that the clubs continue to do negative business, that they have a negative balance, and we've become co-owners of these clubs through the participation. What are we gonna do in a year? We take care of our own then. A professional club. It is therefore appropriate to go openly to the Croatian public and say if the Government wants to write off debts and tax obligations of taxpayers from sports, let it make a decision in accordance with the applicable regulations. And how we're going to regulate future sports relations either professionally, whether amateurally, or schoolly, or recreationally, or maintenance of sports facilities, let's bring in two laws and say that for amateur, school and recreational sports, we're going to draw so much from the budget, and that this is going to be the responsibility of the National Sports Council, that's the meaning of it, then we can say that even professional clubs, sports stakeholders will bear the burden of the market. This relationship would be acceptable to me, it would be clean to the citizens who pay taxes, and the government tells us by serving this law, take charge of you gentlemen in the Assembly, so you bring the law and release professional clubs today that owe some rules 700 million or a billion and a half, that we will not charge that tax but that we will become co-owners of these clubs, as a state. Such a relationship is not correct to this House, and that is simply to be said. We are not here to sit down and write off debts or to turn the tax claims into stock companies, but rather to bring a regulation that will apply in sports for future time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66868	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66869	Well, dear colleague Leko, I fully agree with you on your part, therefore, forgiveness of your debts. However, this Law makes another failure, if we can say so. So, he doesn't just forgive the debt they've created so-called. large clubs because it is obvious that in Croatia clubs are shared into large and small. Big clubs aren't the ones that score big scores, they have big debts. This Law forgives, amnesty of the responsibilities of persons who have brought the budget of the state, pension insurance, health insurance and numerous other creditors in a position not to be able to collect their claim. Even more so, according to this Law, the people who created a billion and some kuna debt to the believers will still be able to sit on the boards of directors of these clubs, on supervisory boards and administrations. So how is it possible that someone who has committed such a huge tax offense because for 3.4 years he has not paid taxes to the state, so he has also laundered money because he has paid the athletes, his rewards, his other prizes, and he has not paid taxes and damaged the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, he will still be able to run the business. Gentlemen, due to the transfer from Stone to Stone Ingrad, the City of Great is now in a difficult situation where even the cemetery is mortgaged. The one who brought her into this situation that the fiduciary is over the cemetery in the Great, will still be able to sit on the board of directors of the Stone of Ingrad, and the citizens will suffer. Because from whom will they buy the burial place from the shareholders in Stone Ingrad, the sports stock company? Or graves in Greater will be shared in a sports stock company in Stone Ingrad. We must therefore establish that responsibility cannot be amnesty and that those who have led to this situation must be severely punished. And the second is now... indeed in a way that solves tax debts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66870	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66871	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, the law really doesn't resolve... Amateur, neither school nor recreational sport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, it does not solve even the essential meaning of professional sport. This law only favours 3 sports in professional status. Who said that in Croatia there could be no sports stock society under some law, let's say, in ice hockey. But it only says three sports here. ... But wait, that reveals what it's about. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So, those in sports basketball, football and handball owe the state. Let's get rid of them, and the rest of them if they want to. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66872	Thank you. As we forgive our debtors, so should we forgive our debts. Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66873	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this proposal, especially this reshaping that you're saying, which I would say very logically you're watching and watching, we've done it through it if you look at the deep two things that are crucial. First, if we ask what owns a football club today? What is property and what is the value of, for example, one football club X? Value is not an object because objects are local self-government. Man, Maksimir. Players are who knows who they are today. Practically perhaps some real estate, what is mentioned by fellow Arabovic, mobile, fax or so, and you are absolutely right that the administrative procedure is an ideal solution. Tell me, what and how, here's what you specifically tried during your former term, what do you expect from the administrative procedure and why you haven't spent it or why we're not doing it today? ... Look, the question of choice, we can say that the question of choice is true, but practically looking at what the administrative procedure is going to be, you know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That this claim, you know there's a club 1 that came out of this situation consciously. Who went through bankruptcy, we can talk now, analyze it, you know that I publicly called the situation as it was, and actually they started from 0. But we now have a very clear situation, in fact, that the only thing you can do at this point is only, and there is that size of the Spanish model that we have adopted in our legislation. Not even write off the kuna, and the state simply transfer its claims to a local self-government that gets the situation to start with zero and you answer. If local self-government with 0 debt, exactly, with 0 kuna debt, but if local self-government thinks or a city that tomorrow becomes the owner of the club that can't work with it further as with some public enterprise, let it declare bankruptcy. Same minute. He has the right to make a bankruptcy and let the club go bankrupt, let him go to market. ... Now look, now look. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] In a series of conversations we've had, and believe me, this law has passed both sati and solved, but also many people who run local self-government have two options. One of them is to give some chance, and the other one to give no chance. Part of local self-government, I assure you here, it certainly has an interest in starting with 0 and leading maybe in 5, 10, 15 biggest, I know in what sense you're going. But why now and priors at this moment of state, tell me, here's the question I'm asking you. You know the situation with Olympia and Slovenia? They think they definitely destroyed their first football league, and they're on the best track about the basketball league. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Absolutely, and no one tells you that you must...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And why go into reshaping? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can keep working, if you want as an association...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66874	Don't call on ghosts. Don't call on ghosts. ... Please, we can't lead like this. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66875	Here, thank you very much, you just said...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66876	Minister, if you're not going to run a polemic. It's not a general debate under the tent.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66877	Thank you very much. But what you said is true, and the truth is that not everyone has to go through the transformation and that every single club has the right to choose the path to go in relation to its financial situation. You have absolutely told the truth, but I would like to say one other thing that is extremely important. This law at nine key points, watch out for nine key points concerning those key changes, and I'll just tell you those nine points. The first is children in sport, the second is sports buildings, the establishment of the Croatian Paralympic Board, the National Sports Council, the National Sports Programme, the establishment of the information system in sport, the professional system in sport, athletes and coaches have only one point in professional clubs, which is the reshaping of sports clubs and associations and of course we can focus on one point, but this Law has a much deeper meaning. Here are the questions that may be deepest, but what we're saying about kids in sports, here I am, not to use time precious to all of us right now. They have entered so deeply that I guarantee you that through the parallel two or three laws of the other that we do, which we are going to do, you know, because you participate in the transport of public-private partnership you have the guarantee that every child in Croatian schools will be engaged in sports in two years from today. Well, I think we just did it past everything else that this step of this law is huge, and on the other hand, the question is, on the other hand, it's asking the question that, in my opinion, it's about everything. If we choose the question of the national programme in sport and if we talk about the National Sports Council, the body that makes strategic decisions, the Assembly body, which then the body above that body can either create a budget or be negativeistically oriented towards it if they have the task of building a network of sports facilities to promote all these activities that we are talking about, because exactly if someone asks what is the question of recreational sport today in the Republic of Croatia these 10 or 15% absolutely, but you see none of these segments alone is enough, but has created the preconditions that we can go there. There is no provision of the law regardless of putting me in the budget increase 30% that will guarantee you the success of recreational sport, if you do not have objects and professional staff and complete consensus of the entire society and that is the essence of this Law and it is impossible to reach the true truth through one point, you know it best.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66878	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66879	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I don't dispute what you're saying about your intention, but please, I'll go back to one detail you can't dispute. On page 40 of this item, you say the Proposer has prescribed this Final Proposal for the Law that sports clubs and competition associations postpone payment of the demand of the Republic of Croatia and legal persons to whom the Republic of Croatia has a majority share of the right to vote. With this legal solution, you prevent the minority owner of a tax administration from objecting and conducting proceedings for the protection of his minority rights. That's what you brought to this House. ... Mr. Minister, it doesn't matter who's a legal person who's a taxpayer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66880	Peace, please. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66881	It's incorrect that he can't conduct an administrative procedure in charge... Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66882	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66883	Not that it's incorrect, but it has to lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66884	But it corrects an incorrect assumption. Dear representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66885	It is incorrect that Mr. Minister argued, speaking of the millions of debts, that the only thing we can do is, I quote Mr. Minister, sign that debt, or transfer it to the units of local self-government. But that's not true. They can, you can establish responsibility for personal property, you can establish a criminal responsibility to play the trust of the believer, but you don't want it all because it's now a system and you won't do it because the millions of debtors are your favorites, and the grandmother with a debt of 150 kuna is your mortal enemy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66886	And now it was with Grandma that it was just a correction to an incorrect quote. ... And Grandpa. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the third correction, Honored Representativeplatmir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66887	Well, it's not true that clubs don't have to reshape. So those who are in football, basketball, handball and professional sports are, professional clubs have to reshape and that's not the problem. The problem is that this Law forgives the debts of irresponsible individuals who created these debts. The responsible individuals who run the club's debts don't have anything to turn. The famous Belupo and the handball club Podravka have no debts. Why don't you ministers and the IRS punish you, pay your debts in Hajduk and Dinam? Who allows you to pay premiums and salaries for "Dinama" and "Hajduka" director, not pay taxes and contributions, and the director of the handball club "Podravka" and "Slaven Belupa" must pay taxes and contributions. It's a key question, and then you bring them into the same position. So forgive Slavena and Podravka taxes are from contributions from the past four years, so we'll all be in an equal position, not that the people of Koprivnica have to pay back the tax debts created by the director of Dinam and Hajduk. That's what this is about. All must be, if it is for all forgiveness of debts, then let it be for everyone in equal equal relations because that forgiveness of debts is paid by citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not ministers, not representatives, not the Government, but we will all pay in solidarity, given the contribution to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, our county is the fourth to make tax contributions to the budget, the last since tax returns. Now you're going to take another billion kuna to share the clubs where the directors were completely irresponsible and where they're going to remain directors of these clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66888	Honorable representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66889	Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In public, the value of sport is often identified only with the last act of one performance, one game, and that is defeat or victory, and that is not right. The values of sports are much higher than that understanding. In the days of the Homeland War and the creation of the Republic of Croatia as well as today, our athletes contributed to the affirmation of Croatia in the world. They promote the nation, but in its most beloved and humane form, as the unity of all its citizens. Therefore, the state must offer both employment and raising standards but equally the possibility of a man competing with himself and others. The people and athletes cannot be reduced to taxpayers, voters and voters and voting machines only in democracy. At a time when the growing moral crisis of modern civilization, the crisis of the institution of marriage and family, when more and more children and young people feel uneasy, unhappy and lost sports, accepts them in their family rarely as a substitute for their father and mother by not leaving them on the street. My colleagues and colleagues, this is the strongest and greatest reason for the Final Proposal of the Sport Act to be accepted by acclaiming. Every law, no matter how it's written, can't avoid criticism. And those who criticize him today tried to do something but failed. And for what? What is this reason to take the right to another to try to do something good? You see, when I told my colleagues and colleagues that however the law was written, he couldn't avoid criticism and should give criticism. But you see, the Sport Act as well as any other law on this matter is not and cannot be an exception. I agree that the amendments that have been tabled should be considered, and should be considered, it should be considered as a matter of tax relief, but it opens up exactly the possibility that the Ministry of Finance is working and working on and on. I am absolutely about to think about the privileged pensions of people, athletes who have made so much for our country and of course to make more money for sport. I have to say there's really a little representative Ferenchak's... I see the water polos aren't naive, too. I see the Vrbikas in the tennis table want to build a gym, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I tell you, even though we were promised three years of Croatian handball as the most trophy collective sport in our country, the conqueror of two gold Olympic medals and world crowns is looking for and wants his handball home in Zagreb. And if that's not me telling you openly, I'm gonna give up leading the team as a message that I disagree with. So, let me keep talking about the law. Despite some of the shortcomings already made in the debate so far, it is necessary to support this law as the most beautiful expression of the youthful enthusiasm of that generation that is facing the future. So, colleagues and colleagues of that generation who want words to optimism and hope. The past and tradition are no longer authoritative terms for young people. Fortunately, there is no ideology in sports that has made the Croatian soul unhappy, young, bitter. They brought into the Croatian soul discord and hatred and polarisation, unrest and mistrust. Sports is not a place of ideological conflict, sport is a place of friendship. Sports may be the only area where people's virtues of honesty and honesty do not become flawed. The Olympic values are based on the principles of humanism, the celebration of man and man-winner, respecting pride and dignity. Unfortunately, today at a sports event, politicians, tycoons, and not Olympic winners, greet us first. This is the case in other areas of life and therefore the front pages in the media are left to media and quality people and young people do not want to push with the receivers voluntarily work the distance. Sports is the best and most beautiful preoccupation in childhood, in youth, in adulthood and age. Sport promotes endurance, victory of work and effort, not laziness and unemployment and false success and a false result. With this law, colleagues and colleagues, we will finally get a national sport programme in Croatia, and we will also get a National Sports Council. So what do we want more? We will arrange that social activity that may rightly be a winning option of results but the synergy of the soul and the body offer a better and more peaceful life. What is the most important sport for colleagues and colleagues offers communication with people of blood and meat and not only with machines, television, radio, play-station, computers, cell phones, videos that impose colored moral, political and any other truth. My colleagues and colleagues, watching children, youth, adults on the playground, it seems to me that there is also a beautiful side to life and that life does not stop. For this reason, colleagues and colleagues, I will vote in favour of the Final Proposal of the Sport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66890	Replica's esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66891	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Cervar! When we discussed this law in the first reading after my individual debate you went to my replica and especially you apostrophed part of my statement at the time that this concept of the Sport Act in part of the transformation goes in favor of the sports mafia. Today I claim that this reshaping of clubs into sports stock companies is nothing more than a write-off of 700 million kunas of state money in favour of those who are privately enriched and run part of the sport for a personal account in a mob way. A week after this debate, this is the Croatian press "The attack on Bonačić has been paid by the mafia", "Crime of Stadium Crime", "Pokrovac, Kuže, Bonačić victims are football mobs". "Croatian football league farce until when?" "Croatian football should have a skipper's cut." "All those who think we are blind are deceived." "I have nothing to be ashamed of, my players have not fought." “Finish football championship clubs whose debts we forgive so-called. reshaping." 700 million kunas of state money instead of science, for sport, for health care and social welfare, we're going to turn into shares of those same authors of this that led to this. So these aren't my claims anymore. I was quoting the cover of the Croatian press. You will uphold this law. I'm glad these headlines don't follow the handball, they're just part of the sport for now. I'm not sure if we accept without criticism and try your request for...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66892	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66893	Yes, fellow MP, if you've followed my exposure well, of course I'm against irregularities. And as far as I can see and the new law provides for supervision, control and, of course, it's inadmissible and as far as I'm concerned, I really have nothing to add. I'm giving you the support of exorcising all the negativity in our sport, but one thing I still have to say. You see, fellow MP, I understand, but that's also your option. It is clear to me that you are using economic populism, which is actually saying what the people want to hear. It's a struggle for social justice, for citizens' rights, for workers' rights, for the right to be powerless. It's this economic populism that's already aged in a certain way, and I know that you're a lot of supporters of one negative marketing that's directed towards representative policy. That's very clear to me. But what I don't understand, Mr. Representative, is that you're not offering solutions. That's the problem. That's why you're losing credibility. A solution should be given, not only to serve economic populism, and you must know that because economic pulsism was created in the 19th century. It is an ideology of social movement that has become obsolete, and I am glad that even one representative, the esteemed Mr Lujic, even at the local level, was against this pulsism that, unfortunately, is flourishing in our country, and that is nothing more than promoting ignorance and incompetence and meddling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66894	Thank you. Replica. The Honorable Representative Ferenchuck.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to say that with a large part of the exposure that... And that I support him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I don't think is a good thing to be, is that we all think the same thing. So, I don't think it's a good thing that everyone, by acclaiming this law, is proposing. Oneness was enough, because I think it's good that we all think differently and that we're making proposals to improve that law. Why am I saying that? I think we have to say that some things have to be fixed. We're talking about 106 alliances here, 2/3 of the law only takes care of two, three alliances, or one of the most. As long as we don't settle the pensions of worthy athletes, I think we're talking about it well. There aren't many olympics, there aren't many such people, we could provide them with deserved pensions. We also need to talk about the fact that in these two and a half years the Ministry of Finance could already draft tax relief laws for those who want to invest their money in sports clubs. I also think it's good to talk about the state's need to create financial conditions so local self-government can finance school, sports societies. It's the halls and the money to pay the people who will lead it. Also, I think it's good to talk in this House that zero is three percent detachment from GDP for sport is too little and that we need to create a system that will work to get at least one percent of the budget that we could invest in our sport and I think it's good to talk here that this way is hard, I know it's hard to get to the right solution. But to those who have not paid their tax obligations means to those who are to forgive them. So we're breaking the Constitution guaranteeing equality rights. We send a bad message to those who are honest and correct. I think it's a good thing that we say in this House that we would, and all in order to improve this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66896	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66897	Well, I think I agree with the MP mostly. I don't see that I would just somehow sum up what you said on such a more concrete matter. You simply promote pluralism and even in that debate. I completely agree because I hold that there can really be no truth, any truth at any level of society without pluralism. All kinds of information and democratic debates, but you're also a respected MP agreeing with me that we have to invest in children. We have to do for, I don't see any other way if we don't believe in our children then there's no future. And therefore, I think we're unanimous here and therefore I agree with your thoughts as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66898	Thank you. Minister Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66899	Mr. Vice President, just a brief review, if you'll excuse me, one general thought. Perhaps the simplest thing in Croatia is to accept the existing situation and not be the predecessor or predecessor of change and have a certain political security that no one will attack. We've chosen the Sports Act another time, and I say it openly. You mentioned some headlines. I will mention to you another cover that neither me nor my lifelong desire for my children to watch, and that is “The Seaman is Elliot Ness about crime in sports”, and now I will explain why. I'll explain now. Whether it's the first time in Croatia, it's the cover of "Sport News" I'll give it to you. Whether or not a revision of the status of the list has ever been made in Croatian sports clubs. Whether the list and value of the asset assessment have ever been established. Has the audit ever gone in? Has there ever been a business review by a sports club in the last five years? Never. It has never been made in the Republic of Croatia, and this law will be done, and we have the law, the Penal Code and all the others that I will stimulate that those who have done so have nothing to do with it because they do not know who these individuals are to punish. But we cannot build criminal provisions beyond the law of the Penal Code, and so are all colleagues who deal with the Penal Code, and this is not an amnesty, but it will be a fundamental punishment under Croatian law for those who committed it, and I hope it is a message for all of us together. That's why this amnesty, I didn't understand at all what it means, and I can't do it in this law, that's why all the people who deal with the Penal Code can't build on those provisions that exist within the existing Penal Code. However, this is a prerequisite for the launch of a series of investigative, investigative and other actions. And I'm the one, and you yourself know who might have sent the most... Of all the ministers in certain institutions, this will be the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I assure you. No distractions, no matter who. On the other hand, I would also like to say that, that my assistant reminded me of extremely important, we will, through an inspection that we first introduce, try to solve the issue and control of the work of certain clubs systematically. And that's the role of the inspection that I believe we will, that we will launch immediately after this particular regulation because it is foreseen. There are a few more questions that it's not easy to answer. One of them was a matter of health care of athletes who, of course, we took several models and about resolving the status of top athletes. About paying pensions and stuff. I would also like to solve it in one way systematically but of course this law foresees an opportunity that opens the door to settle it through some other laws, through some other ministries. I'll give you an example of Slovenia. Slovenia has started and the state has started paying for internships and social security and recently their minister who was with us says they are considering returning to another model where clubs will include, rather than more states, that they are doing it individually because this model has proved very ineffective and incomplete. And they are now at this stage that actually in this direction they are going and that is the last information we have received from fellow Slovenians. Next up, the DOP Agency. The same step that we will try to address this issue of drug monsters among young people but also among professionals, but of course this issue of the obligation to finance sports activities in the Republic of Croatia is a key issue. I'm telling you again. If it hadn't been for these two national councils, there would have never been a shift in science, in higher education, because they are the ones who analyzed, criticised and proposed to the government, the Parliament that will be. This is exactly the opportunity for the National Council to make out of these unfortunate 0.3% steps and then I wonder who's going to be against it. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66900	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Ferenchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister has determined that it might have been better if nothing had been done to keep anything going. I don't think that's good, and I think it's a good thing that you've started this law, and absolutely no one smart can put you on the back of responsibility for the situation that's in the sport right now. And I think this discussion is just a desire to improve this, or improve this law. There's no attack on you and on your Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66902	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66903	Thank you very much. Let me briefly in this debate conveyed not only my views regarding what brings us a future in sport related to this Law but also the sightings of some people who have devoted their entire lives to sports, sports activities if and because they are either not concerned with politics or were not available to them where it was decided or could suggest what should be better solved by this Law which also asked that their views be transferred here in the Parliament. I'm going to start with something fundamental that I think should have preceded this law alone. Although from the Law, from the text of the Law, it can be explained what the basic objectives are, the main objectives of the system, the system of sports, I still think that this Law is passed before consensus is reached in Croatia about what these main objectives are? We have not discussed these main objectives and listening here in the Assembly would suggest that Article 2 also in the National Programme on Sports to conclude what these objectives are, but I do not think the National Consensus is there. And until we have defined the goals hardly that we can be best or ultimately precise in defining strategies or in defining the modality or instruments that we will achieve and one of these instruments should certainly be the Sport Act. Not the only one, but one of the instruments. I personally think that the main objective of the sport system in the Republic of Croatia should be in the spirit of the Olympic Charter, which says among other things: "Sports dealing is human law. Every individual must have the opportunity to deal with sports in accordance with his or her needs." No matter how much the Proposer of this Law boasted that this is an ideal solution, I think that this goal is not even this Law, and even if we are going to implement it 100% which is always questionable in Croatia will not satisfy this goal. But that's not even a key problem. The key problem is are we even trying? And whether the instruments this Law offers are more difficult to achieve at some time or to seek that goal to enable sports to be done to anyone who wants it in the extent that he wants it. Do we want several strong clubs in international contexts in the Republic of Croatia or an increase in the percentage of the physical activity of the population in the Republic of Croatia? That's about 17% now. Do we want to improve the health of children and adults? A number of children and young people in sports clubs guaranteeing and achieving top sports results for a talented nation. These are the answers we still have no consensus on. The fact that for the existing system of competition sport, and we have more and more foreign, well-paid professionals in the Croatian economy, there is no real material and financial foothold, tells us in addition to the need to build a system of sports that would give better results for a longer period of time. And only after such a set of goals means defining do we want to give priority to professional, strong, few strong clubs or once, to create a broad base then we will know whether the solutions in this Law are the best? The national sport program is a document that is not visible from this Law that prepares it but only who gives an opinion on it and who brings it? I will assume that professional groups or individuals through competitions or the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports or the Croatian Olympic Committee will prepare this national sport programme. It must contain some specific points from 1 to 3 of Article 2 and I would suggest to the Minister, I did not write that amendment, but here I hereby propose that points 1 and 3 of paragraph 3 change the place. I think that the programme of creating conditions for sports in the education system should be the first mandatory content of the national sport programme, and the programme for creating conditions for achieving top results should contain it, but it should stand third, not vice versa. As far as the National Sports Council is concerned. I wrote one amendment, and now I'm going to say briefly what the essence of that amendment is. Namely, this National Council as the highest expert body is in my opinion the triplication of the government in the system of sports of the Republic of Croatia, since there is already the Ministry and the Croatian Olympic Committee as professional sports bodies. The proposal to make it 13 members, out of which the president and 6 members propose the ministry, puts it in the political category, not only of the expert body, which will in reality only increase the bureaucratic apparatus and complicate some decisions. In practice, you'll see that I'm right. In particular, given that other members propose sports associations, the Olympic Committee and the Faculty of Kinesiology indicate that the parliamentary opposition does not have any effect on decision-making in sport. As a result, I proposed to the amendment that three members of the expert body and the president propose the ministry and three members propose a parliamentary opposition, all of which remain the same. A written amendment, so you'd like to take it seriously. As far as the sport system itself is concerned, the proposed law does not offer any new solutions or any major steps. I would like to underline that it is very important to insist on the planning and implementation of the physical health culture in the system of education and education, to consider the possibility of introducing and teaching in preschool institutions, and where there are no such institutions, these are rural areas, to encourage activities to carry out the activities of sports by personal work. I think that we have the biggest problem right now in performing a physical health culture in schools and that the school sports society itself cannot make up for it that the fact that good solutions are given to school sports society will not solve a greater coverage of children's sports activities. It could have been done today, and in that sense, the law itself will not provide for any step. The necessary adjustment of the competition sport system in the Republic of Croatia is possible based on some of the proposed solutions. But there is only one important condition, which is that we consistently implement these articles of the law, which has not been the case so far. The right of the first stock for local self-government units indicates, today there have been a lot of words, on the latent desire for sports clubs where the conditions for declaring bankruptcy are reshape at the expense of local self-government, and here I agree with all those who talked about it. And that's how he amnests individuals responsible for bringing clubs into a bad business situation. Since, in most cases, county and local self-government is the owner of sports activities, and players in professional clubs under management contracts are also asked what future shareholders, local self-government or creditors would be able to sign up as property in addition to established debts. The question arises also why would anyone want to do so if they had clear business reasons to become a shareholder in such a sporting stock society. The increase due to the forms of association that the law prescribes threatens to increase the administrative system in sport, which is very dangerous for a country with 4 and a half million inhabitants because there will be many more people living from sports than those living for sport. In my opinion, sports professional jobs well determine the level of necessary, the provisions that speak about professional jobs well determine the level of education needed to carry out professional work, with the necessary training of teaching, it is about sports trainers. The need to raise funds for the development of a national sport programme is likely to arise. It is not possible to define it, but it is not possible to define it and because we do not know who will participate in this national programme. Here, I've run out of time, but I think I've managed to say what I wanted crucially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66904	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Chevar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66905	So I really have to correct the incorrect allegation of the distinguished MPs who said that the National Sports Council can become a political body and that it is nothing but an expensive administration and that the competences of that National Sports Council can continue to work on the Croatian Olympic Committee, or Ministry, etc. And I don't think she's going to blame me for a respectable representative, she's not very much involved with sports, it's not her domain, she's as far as I know an economist and she should be more involved in it. But I'd like to tell you, don't let that Croatian Olympic Committee, it's since the draft of '91. the most non-governmental national body, sports body and acts in accordance with the provisions of the Olympic Charter, the Law on Sports and the Law on Associations. This is to encourage the participation of sports and sports competitions and also to ensure that cooperation is improved in all 69 national alliances. And you see, other countries, for example. in France especially the Ministry of Sports, Hungary has an Independent State Sport Office, Luxembourg has a National Institute for Sports, Poland has a Ministry of Sport Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66906	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66907	Therefore, all other countries have, so allow us to have a professional National Council determine how it will develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66908	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66909	A very expert council on how to develop in our children's sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66910	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66911	... not knowing counterpart Antunovic led her statement that school sports companies do not allow children to deal with sport enough, which is absolutely not true. [[Specially enabled.]] School sports society, with us there are various sports run by professional people where all children can be involved. And especially should highlight good cooperation with a number of sports clubs, so that everyone together achieves excellent results.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66912	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to rephrase the honourable representative. First of all, I'm surprised by your exposure and congratulations, correctly. This is what I'm serious about. Correct exposure, and I don't have any big grudges. I've already prepared myself for much sharper I'd say some other words, but this was really correct. Because your colleague, the former minister, drew my attention to how much trouble he had in passing the law. Oh, God, he brought it. The Parliament came to another reading in which he lost every trace. How much would it make it easier for all of us to get the job done in the last term? And it was all arranged in the end, and the last day was a ban on putting it in another reading. When you were talking about the National Sports Council, I think that's what you were saying, because we gave the HDZ Club an amendment in Article 4. It means it's not the Minister and the Ministry. It's the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If we're gonna question the ministry, if we're gonna suspect the government, if we're gonna question the president, then we're gonna question the entire state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66914	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66915	Thank you very much. It is shown that, in addition to demagogues, there are fewer in politics, and more when they are in activity, they speak realistically. The minor corrections of incorrect allegations and colleagues of Cervar and colleagues of Markovanovic are an attempt to insult themselves, nothing else. I mean, mentioning my expertise or intricacies shows that they're dilettants and unprofessionals in anything, I just give them back the insult they sent me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66916	Without hard words, please, there's no dilettante council here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66917	And I don't have any other comments on what they said. I don't question their expertise, so don't let them question me, let them not play with me politically because they really aren't up to me. As far as school sports companies are concerned, that I'm not instructed not to work, I'll say it again. 17% of the population in Croatia, unfortunately, only engaged in sports. That's official information. And as sports companies operate, school sports companies depend on a lot of factors, unfortunately because of a bad trend of inactivity within educational institutions, falling motivation of employees in the education system, and there are fewer and fewer good sports school societies, and that is a fact and if we are to cover it then we will never make positive changes that really won't, it's not easy to realise given the decades of accumulated problems in the sports system.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66918	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Ferenchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I think that in the first reading of this law here and so far we've had a very constructive debate and I would like to appeal to my colleagues and colleagues that we don't really need these things especially about sports and that we'll all agree there. I would refer to the presentation of colleague Antunovic in the part where she spoke about the system of sports and I agree with her and I think we'll all agree that the system of sports is not working, maybe it's just starting, but it certainly doesn't work, we should create it. But what I disagree with, you said that with less money in the good system, there's a lot more to be done. I think less money than what the Croatian state is now singleing out is impossible for sport to single out, because it is embarrassingly small. It's embarrassing for this government too, it's embarrassing for both the former government and all the governments that made so little money for sport in Croatia. That's 0.3% of what we're always talking about, that's 30 million kuna from the budget, something from the Croatian lottery. It is too little for Croatian sport. I said from the budgets of local administrations and state for what is spent on sports is not even 10% of the investment that people have invested in sports. So they do it all the nice ways they can. If there are assumptions here with the new law and if the assumptions are made that the money that the state invests in sports is not the case today, I think you will all agree that at the level of 1% should be set aside for sports and sports activities in the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66920	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66921	Well, it's not some answer, but it's actually an explanation. I guess we didn't get along so well. I didn't say for a moment that there was less to be singled out in Croatia for sport and that it could be done with less. Not at all. I think that for the public needs of sports in Croatia too little and that it should be more burdensome for some other public activities that I think are being allocated too much. What I've put in place as a dilemma is whether we're going to make most of the money that's being allocated to sport at all levels, direct to several strong professional clubs, or create a basis for building a system of sports that would give better results over a long period of time, calling for the purchase of expensive foreign players, professionals, or athletes of professionals, and urging that most of that money that is now being invested for these top-notch results, that most of that money be invested in actually creating its own sports staff, its own champions, and not that, as unfortunately, more and more practice has become, to import champions. We used to make champions, and now we start importing them. That was the essence of what I was talking about. And once again without any evil intentions. I don't think this expert body will become political, but the way members are proposed also points to a political aspect of it. And here's what I propose is just one balance that all options and one and another political option have an opportunity to propose experts for this expert body and thus have some kind of influence to run a sport policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66922	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66923	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected ministers with associates, esteemed fellow MPs. Since this is my fourth address on the subject of the Sport Act, I will very briefly highlight the part that I think is really important and here at the beginning thank my colleagues for a really constructive debate, of course there is some demagogue remark, but mostly a debate with...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66924	Here you are, the distinguished representative of Perica Bukić. I'm begging... And what's the problem? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I warned Mrs. Antunovic not to use hard words. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't give a warning. ... And ask for a club session and then we'll discuss it there, I didn't give a warning, I warned Mrs. Antunovic not to use hard words. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't see a plate of distinguished MPs byte for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, after which I couldn't give an injury to the Rules of Procedure after another replica, and now you have a distinguished representative, Perica Bukic, for a debate of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66925	Thank you, Vice President. Here, there's a bit of a stir for ghosts. ... Come on, colleagues, I'm begging you. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I will be very brief and I hope really that sport will not call for disagreements, it should not, given what it represents in Croatia with its role and importance, it is really too important to bring it down to the level of personal bickering. What I think is fundamentally coming out of the discussion of everyone is that this Law creates preconditions and provides the basis for solving all those problems that we have discussed. It also means the question of conditions, sports, school, university sports, expertise and staff education. I have to say, there's been a lot of discussion on the board right about the staff, about the coaches, especially the people who deal with younger categories, and I'm sure you should use both the Faculty of Kinesiology and the experts who are educated. However, I absolutely think that national alliances, clubs, means people from sports, and that there is one collaboration and profession from the university, but also people who are particularly necessary in sport, in order to have one fit of experts, people who will raise young people when they engage in active sports. Do recreationally, do professionally through clubs. Also the question of the National Sports Council. A lot of discussion is being held on the subject of the National Council, the question of the relationship between the Croatian Olympic Committee and the National Sports Council. I don't think it should be questionable, the Croatian Olympic Committee really has one high place in, the highest body in Croatia that deals with problems and by organising at all sports and all national alliances and organizations of county, etc. And the National Sports Council will only be a body that will help the Olympic Committee and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports solve all of the problems we're talking about, which they haven't had so far, so I could say, not all of these problems and discuss. And funding sports, and investing in sports and tax breaks and the question of athletes, their pensions... athletes who are proposed, the question of sports status at the ministry level, whether the assistant minister or secretary of state tomorrow, the issue of network facilities, the construction of new facilities, the issue of Bellolasica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, all that we're discussing here, by establishing the National Sports Council, I think we're going to get a final place, or a body that will be able to rightly deal with all these problems, suggest a solution to these problems, and in some ways even work pressure in the interests of sports and people who are involved in sports. Indeed, it would be inappropriate for this Law on Sports to come to a level of law-making dealing with football, which often tries to impose itself as a thesis. Of course, that part of the problem needs to be solved, too, it's something that burdens the functioning of that sport and not just football and other sports that are in that rank, and basketball, handball and water polo. Of course, also, given that the problems have been in place for a number of years, 15, 20, it is not possible to solve them overnight, but definitely that with this law, if nothing, they will draw a line and form a system of control of the functioning of all these clubs in the future. The question is, in this regard, the question of the functioning of clubs. So, people who run these clubs, people who are management presidents, directors, etc., I have to inform you that in some way all of you are at the centre of attention just these most attractive clubs that are often in the media. But the truth in sports is a little different. 95, 99% of the clubs that operate are purely amateur clubs. People who lead them do it out of love, more damage than good, I would say, and it's often the case that you have to beg people to even catch up to this ungrateful job that comes down to looking for financial resources so these clubs can work at all. And definitely that the strategy must organise clubs to deal with local communities anyway, and that the state is engaged in funding national alliances, financing young people, financing school sports, high school sports, recreation, etc. He wouldn't last any longer. I would really like to thank the Minister and his associates for their efforts to pass such a law, and I am convinced that all of those results that our athletes have achieved and realized for decades today, that with this Law, with the application of this Law, full of the application of this Law, they will meet again the conditions that tomorrow they will be looking forward to the successes and world-renowned results of our athletes and our domestic, both domestic and internationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66926	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66927	... I am supporting a respected representative who said that we should also think about those people who have spent their whole lives in sports and who have done a lot of work to promote this country. [[Specially enabled.]] And there are people, I'll tell you, who won the Olympic medal and who are today, they have, they fight to make ends meet and they're concerned about existence. And what minimum we can do for those people to help them. I would only ultimately like to say as she used it, so would I, the distinguished representative Mrs. Antunovic, who insulted me today for the second time. For the first time in public on TV "Sunday at 2", she said I've strayed into politics which is absolutely not true because I think I'm even a better politician than you. And you're a dilettante about it, and I'll tell you something else. I don't let you insult me because if you're an option left that respects the rules of law, I'm just reminding you of one thing. That regulations and rights say that we should live honestly, not insult each other and give each of our own. And you should be given a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66928	Replica. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66929	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Bukic Perica, said that this law is actually about, mostly, the most attractive clubs, and that's probably where Dinamo, Hajduk, Osijek and River is thought of. No, we're dealing with one thing, and it's that these clubs are forgiven for their insane money. According to the 2000 report, it was 577 million, so the minister confessed 700 million kuna, and it's very likely now that at least... It's about forgiving their debts, someone's making these debts, and I'm showing you what a debt it is. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] With 700 million kunas admitted by Mr. Minister, it's at least 70 sports halls, at least. We forgive some of the characters who made these debts 700 million kuna instead of making 700 sports objects that this Law speaks of, and we say in Jurđenovac in one place in Slavonia cannot find 3 million and 600 thousand kuna to the hall that is under the roof, which is locked down. The money is gone, the money is gone and cannot be found, and the President of the Parliament knows what hall he's working on because he's set up a cornerstone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66930	Replicate response, respected representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66931	Here's an esteemed colleague, I really have no intention of defending any kuna that's on... a way, i.e. not taken, but not paid to the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we are starting with the fact that this is one reality we have found, which has been going on for many years and inaccuracies on your part to forgive the debts. Finally, you will see what will come of it, but the fact is that you had to withdraw the line and finally introduce order at least to function in the future. I'll just keep you posted. I'm... The director of one club, president of one national alliance, the most successful club and the official declared and functioning of clubs is extremely difficult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's almost at the magic level today to find the means. These money that you're talking about are money that doesn't exist, nor have they ever existed, so it would hardly make me a gym with that money. If I could, I'd be the first to do it. But I say it again. What may be most important about this will be the bodies that need to be dealt with, but definitely that this Law creates the conditions that this no longer happens in the future and does not repeat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66932	Dear representative Željka Antunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66933	A colleague, Bukic, rightly said he would draw a line with this law and start over. In that direction, I'd like to replicate a little bit and say that it's not a good idea to make peace so easily with the fact that it's going to happen and just get over it. You have to draw a line, you're right and you have to start over and this law creates the basis for at least talking about financing, functioning and organising sports clubs, especially top-notch sports and relations with the state to be better placed and put under better control. However, not through this Law and not through the Ministry of Sports, but through other institutions of the Croatian state, which, unfortunately, are in poor shape and functioning in no way, are not able to deal with top-notch crime, and how well-wrapped machinations that occurred in sport and which is why some have become rich, and many who have truly dealt with sport have been poored, I think, that this should not be put under the rug, that this law should not be a crown alibi for it and that some others should deal with it because it is not very small money, it is the big money that because of the impotence of society, because of the lack of political will to put things in the right place. It's hard to correct. I agree that there is no law that can handle this in the best way that we can all be satisfied, but it does not have to be solved by this Law, but this Law is not the only thing in this country that is the only place that defines what has happened and what is happening in sports. Let us not bury everything that should be cleared up and resolved by this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66934	Replicate response, respected representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66935	Dear colleagues, I will only say very briefly that I specifically emphasized a moment ago if you listened to me that one of the results would just be underlining the lines and introducing control for the future, but also that the authorities that will deal with this will... See who's doing what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course the irregularities won't be removed and of course you can't overwrite it with a sponge, but here I am, when you've already told me I'm thanking our government and the minister for having the strength to pass a law like this that we've long waited for. Perhaps you, too, could have tried to deal with this problem for your term of office. Of course it's not easy, but I'm convinced that one big step to the functioning of sports and that neither what was negative would be overwritten, and certainly the last shifts would be with this passing of the law very quickly visible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66936	Next replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66937	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bukić, you have indeed seen many of the problems that some colleagues have raised here in their rational and constructive debate, but I would like to mention that you have highlighted something else here. This Law respects the sport of children and youths, and it has often been said that young people are not being paid attention. Well, this is the very law of sport of children and youth that has come to the centre of attention, from the use of sports halls to the beginning of respecting those teachers and teachers, those coaches who work in school sports. I don't know a single school in every school today in our country that doesn't have any sporting activity. So she exists. Here, in this Law for the first time in the public needs programme at national level in sport, it is said that the priority of sports is children and youth, and I want to point out here that not everything in this area can be solved in this Law. And I agree with some who said you should return sports and kindergartens organised. The law on preschool education is also today able to carry out sports activities in kindergartens. They exist in a large number of kindergartens. That is why I appeal to the Minister for the amendment of the Preschool Law to establish the obligation for sports in kindergarten to become an obligation, not a possibility, but an obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66938	The reply to the replica is the respected representative of Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66939	I'm going to be very short-circuited only I also support, of course, your exposure, but I'll take advantage of the occasion when you mention the sport of young people to highlight a link between top sports and just these young ones. It's really indivisible and put in first or third place one or the other would be wrong. I'm going to give you an example, here's my colleague Cervar knows how much more children have started to deal with handball after the success of the handball team and how much promiscuity in the world and how much this top sport is and how high-end result is related to child and youth activities, and it is certain that each such special international success binds one huge mass of children, kids with sport and, in that case, normally, that these conditions of sports are necessary and this law provides them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66940	Honorable representative Franjo Arabovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66941	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't take the impression before I replicate my colleague Bukic to protect my colleague, Lina Cervara, a parliamentary representative, for these insults that have been pronounced by not wanting to interfere in your relations. I think Mrs. Antunovic insulted the entire sports audience, the complete handball team, the two gold medals, the Olympic and all the other sports sympathisers, whom Mr. Cervar was elected even though he was not correct to the lady, if not to the lady, he had to be more correct because the lady was a lady. That's what I'd say in this presentation right now. ... They're political. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] counterpart Bukic said one good thing, he spoke it from his experience as president of the water polo alliance and as a member... One of our most professional clubs and he said one very important thing, that they had to dance I would say in my own way more drastically on the edge of crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To work in sports today, you had to be a half criminal. Now, this law will make it known who's doing what in sports and not today we have people, we've all accused them, I can count them 50 and no evidence anywhere. But it's important to say that the president of Cibona is a thief, the president of Dinam is a thief, the president of Hajduk, the Stone of Ingrad, all about sports, those thieves. And these people when I talk to them, when I see what kind of chemistry they're doing so that clubs can function and survive and compete in Europe. Because if a Croatian club doesn't perform in European competitions for a year, it loses the next five seasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66942	The replicas include baggage and the part that does not belong to replicas. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66943	Your Honor, our Rules of Procedure have strict provisions on what is a replica and who is being replicated. You can't replicate Vukic and then comment on Željko Antunovic. That's already allowed to Lini Cervara. Look, there are rules in sports, and there are two athletes who don't respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure. And we have a third of you who allow them to do so in the end, when they say all these things, instead of breaking them up gently, warning them that it does not belong to a replica. Listen, it's one intentional, drastic disrespect of the Rules of Procedure by the MPs and one tolerance of disrespect by the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66944	Comrade Stazic, there is one provision in this Rules of Procedure that a representative should be listed immediately at the beginning of which the Rules of Procedure is considered to have been violated. I should specify a specific provision rather than relying on, say, that provision that speaks of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And a respected representative, before responding to the replica of Perica Bukic. ... Walter Poirot. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can run the polemics a little bit like this on the circuits and somewhere else, on the gallery, on the balconies. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Poirot, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66945	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That fellow Vukic, it is not good to have personal conflicts in the parliamentary debate of the Sport Act. Not only is it not good for the subject of sport to come to conflict, but it would be good for all these incoming amendments to be studied well and incorporated into the Sport Act, which Mr. Minister announced in this debate that he is glad to have discussed here today openly and without a score to say so. Therefore, it would be good for all these amendments to be studied well and to be incorporated into the Sport Act in order to be unique in sport for the benefit of sport. And I think this debate will ultimately contribute to the development of sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66946	Dear Representative Anto Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66947	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Since sport is of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia and is based on the principle of volunteering, availability to all regardless of age, sex, race, religion, nationality, social position or political determination, I welcome this Final proposal of the Law on Sport, which regulates the system of sports, sports activities, sports professional activities, sports competitions, finances and control of sports as well as the mechanisms for promoting the development of sport in particular the construction and maintenance of sports buildings. The current Sport Act and the applicable regulations have not offered adequate solutions, so the reasons proposed by this Act are justified, meaningful, realistic, starting with the definition of the adoption of the National Programme for Sport Development which I hope will set very clearly the objectives, holders and deadlines for each area and maintenance of this programme. The National Council as the highest expert body to be able to discuss and propose and adopt measures to develop and improve sport. Here's what we see today about sports. We're talking about politicians. Unfortunately, we have little respect for what our proven athletes have said. I think it's a real opportunity for this Council to be athletes who will be able to say and define what needs to be defined in the National Sport Development Programme. Quality system of sport which will make up legal and physical persons with clear rules of business and separate professional from amateur as well as definitions of the status of sports facilities and professional persons in sport. In particular, it should be pointed out that this Final Bill regulates sport of children and youth not only in creating and building conditions from school sports halls and other facilities but also provides high education, professional staff in this education, general and health skills of students, monitoring and directing children through information in sport. A top athlete is an institution and more than that. A top athlete affirms a local, regional and state environment. It is therefore very important that this Law clearly defines status, right, compensation to categorized athletes, right to subsidies, education if it is the winner of medals. I also join those colleagues who said, "You should think about certain benefits for top athletes, whether it's about pensions or some other stuff quite anyway." It gives professional clubs both the conditions and the possibility of transparent business through titleholders of ownership, capital and sources of funding. But also the business control that we have often heard of today unfortunately in a negative omen in terms of bad business, malfeasance or abuse of the opportunities offered by today's sports society or club. No less important this Law includes other categories of athletes. Through recreational sports employed, retired and all other categories of our population. The law also defines very clearly how to finance sports. It prescribes funding sources from state, regional and local environments. It determines the forms of association from sports alliances, communities if you want sports shareholders. It also provides sports institutions necessary for the functioning of sport. And the national programme, the network of sports buildings, the decisions of the competent ministries will ensure, I hope, the standard, maintenance, management and use. Perhaps one at the end of the suggestion when it comes to bringing in and bringing in a national programme to reflect a little on the standards of building school sports halls. We spend a very large amount of money on huge sports facilities that serve our hall sports. We give enormous values, one single two-part hall you can't build without 8 to 9 million kuna. One three-part hall, 12 to 15 million kuna. Perhaps we should consider the standards of building these objects by example here in the Western world that have assembly halls. It's very easy to move them after the club's shut down or its competitive work to move or completely decommission them because they're cheaper, and they have the same, they have a purpose. So here is, above all, the law or the final proposal that our athletes and our sports audience have long expected, and above all, I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66948	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66949	You say colleague Bagaric unfortunately sports is what politicians do. It's not that unfortunately you know. Politicians decide that state money will be spent. And that's what this law is about. And what are these, now that law predicts? He predicts transferring state claims to local self-government. “De facto”... Who's gonna charge for that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 700 million kuna at least. Then what's to stay for the pools, for the playgrounds? Where kids should hack, like what, they say in Zagreb. Well, I think that, and we all think it's far more necessary than these great ones who sometimes through the actions of their leaders shame us. Look what that Maric is doing. Shame on Croatian sport, not pride. That's how 700 million kunas are forgiven. But if this government doesn't just forgive those 700 million kunas, if it still has to pay back the debts that I doubt the ones you left in Požega County will, then it won't stay for the balls, let alone for the playground.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66950	Reply to the replica, respected representative Anto Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66951	Dear Representative Stazic, every replica, and I have noticed other MPs benefiting from the debt of Požeško-Slavonska County to me, and we have had an example of hearing about health care. He knows very well that these are not my debts. That the debts of the system we had and the way things were done and worked so much I deny all of his lunches were given to this variant. I also said, it stands, maybe I agree. Unfortunately about this law we politicians are discussing...... About yourself... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I could say that I was in sports, but for some people who weren't into sports, they want to say something about the law and they have no idea, they don't know anything about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66952	Second replica, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66953	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to replicate a part of the show, my colleagues, when he was talking about sports papers that he should. So none of us here in the assembly and I think in all of Croatia is... So for the Olympic and world medalists, the state has to repay them for something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not just the team, the current prize. But this law is a prerequisite for the National Sports Council to propose to the Ministry, the Ministry of Finance to find funds to be top athletes, conquerors of Olympic World Medals must have an unfettered working internship or we have another problem which with these people who have played basketball for 15 years, 10 years in Croatia, and 5 out. Who can give us those five years or let us who were out there that for those years we had outside contracts we can buy in Croatia that year of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66954	And respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66955	In fact, I would refer to one aspect of the presentation of a respected colleague, an aspect that should be analysed in detail in every draft law here, and that is the answer to the question of who will pay all this together. It's all costing. And this law costs money. It's clear who in this situation is going to pay for the financial implementation of this law. They'll pay taxpayers, a billion kunas we've heard about is money that never existed. Lie! It's not a lie. It's a lie. That money did exist, but it went into private pockets. He paid off without paying his taxes. Someone's got a premium. Some manager got a reward, and the tax is not paid. Taxes remained as long as they owed. So the money was there. Financially clear who will pay the price. The second question is who's gonna pay the political bill. Big clubs popular with so-called. The brand passes through claims owned by local self-government. And now the City of Zagreb or the City of Split or the City of Rijeka will have to say that we can't function we'll shut it down. We will shut it down, and according to the regulations of the state. So, the political agenda is being transferred to local self-government. The transfer of the company to local self-government is also visible in the implementation of a project to build sports halls across Croatia. The halls are built, built at a good pace and no one has anything against it because it's one of the better moves of both this government and the last government. However, these halls need to function afterwards. How can I function after the cost of local self-government that barely has the money for its own operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66956	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66957	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. So when I talk about this law again, we need to come up with a problem of decentralisation of this state and local and regional self-government. Here, yesterday we spoke in this House of Health and we have another blow to local and regional self-government. This time we have something similar, because most of this law or at least what we're conflicting about is these debts that have been achieved by several, let's make it a dozen, fifteen sports clubs in the Republic of Croatia. However, regional and local self-government units have been strained so far, and we don't care at all how we do them and what obligations we remand them, literally skin them. Because we say public needs in sports have units of local and regional self-government. I agree with that, but you have so many local needs, that simply those who are the leaders in those units of local or regional self-government don't know what to accept first, and when we look at individual laws like this, then we're super broad-handed and let's just break their obligation, and nobody tells them how much funds will be decentralised and return to those units of local and regional self-government. Personally, I believe that for the public needs of sport, money should go primarily for the development of amateur and school sports, above all, and the reason why our youth is not sufficiently engaged in sports is inappropriate conditions. Every honor in large cities or major centres where there is nothing, but, for example, in Voća Donjo, in Varazdin County, you have no fair sports playground, let alone sports halls. And we say let the young people play sports, let the kids at primary school play sports. It's stories and floscules, and that's why I welcome every idea that new sports halls are being built, new sports playgrounds, but let's go and try to have children in a small environment, children in big cities have equal conditions. They're not sad! Another thing about professional clubs. Here it is said which clubs are and I believe that the lack of this material, Mr. Minister, is that we do not have a clear list of sports clubs and responsible persons as many and as much damage to the Croatian tax society as possible. It's easy for our athletes to complain because obviously premiums and wages are as Vuljanić used to say paid, but taxes and contributions are not. We give up taxpayers' money easily. But I'm also asking the government's representative and all of you if we're going to give up taxes and contributions for a small craftsman, for the one who works in a small company, so he's not doing his job. The tax administration sits on his jury account and in an hour goes the execution, and here we allow people who have said a fellow Arabovic half criminals, quote you or have said they work as half criminals they obviously spent more than they had. We have to be aware in Croatia that various players are imported with no idea which countries exotic or less exotic, take places and our athletes all under cover, it is a great Croatian sport. I think Croatian sport is first celebrated by our teams and individuals who are citizens, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the effects are also when we have some success in collective sports, but there's a lot of money going on, and that's where everything else gets hurt because there's not enough money for others. I would like to hear how many clubs, top-notch clubs that are branded in Croatia have sports schools and how they managed sports schools their athletes, how many of them have become top-notch and not sold out. Because the fact is, by introducing professionalism, I think the state's money can go one part or the most to develop sports schools, to school sport, to amateur sports, and to recreation. Yesterday we talked about the Health Strategy, but I didn't think of a little bit in the strategy writing the link between recreation and sports with the health of the nation, and that should be the same. The more the sports nation is and the healthier it is, so let's talk about it. And I am in favour of creating preconditions for new athletes, that as many Croatian citizens as possible are engaged in sports. What particularly bothers me, and I can't accept it, Mr. Minister, for clubs that intend to be professional, that only 500 000 kuna is founding or core capital. I have a feeling you'll get ahead of yourself because there'll be a little property and everything else, and who guarantees us as well as those we'll now forgive the taxpayers' money. What happens after we pass this law, what do they turn out to be? What happens after in a year or two they re-wrestle enormous debts? Are we going to pass a new law? I feel like we're passing this law, 15 clubs, and here I can say I'm not well-informed enough, so I don't know who they are, and I'd like to hear who they are. And through this professionalization we introduce that already in the county football leagues money is given, because no one will play anymore if there is no money. Therefore, yes, we will have today or tomorrow and a debate on the Law of Theatres and local self-government there must give something and everything else. And it's clear to us in a country that's out of the war, there's not enough money from transition. As far as ownership is concerned. I would ask you ministers, at least if not already in law, to sublaws are given clear criteria in which the commission will allow someone to have more than 25% ownership in a sports professional club. I think it's very important and important. And in the end, we and this law, whether we want to admit it or not, let the managers, so on. The managers and all the others who brought these clubs into this situation by paying the players largely, by their salaries, by unreasonable costs, remember that at certain times in Croatia they were magnificent and paying players at times when the state was a malt not financially in the collapse of enormous amounts. And when these players go out, then you have to read "Sport News" or some other newspaper story is one of how much they sell, and the story is another how much taxes and how much money comes in the state register or in their own clubs. Therefore, it seems to me that we can treat this law in part with that paragraph, "Our ideas and your money." When I say your money, taxpayers' money, and I'm afraid that even after the adoption of this law, either I or someone else who will be sitting in this High House, we will be quick to discuss how to rehabilitate clubs, because I'm afraid local and regional self-government has no money for it. That is why he asked you to also in Article 42, where local self-government is said to have the opportunity to take over these clubs, there should be, and to be nomotechnically correct, as local and regional self-government and the City of Zagreb is spoken throughout the law. Since this is not about county, then it must be local self-government and the City of Zagreb, because in what way we will pretend let's say clubs in the City of Zagreb or maybe for them we already have buyers who want to do it with a slalom such as our famous former Croatian model. So, personally, I believe that, and in my deep conviction, this law is, in my opinion, less due to the breadth of sport and all that, more is due to these write-offs of these debts, which is not good. I welcome every intention to develop the conditions for playing sports as widely as possible, but I am afraid and expressing my concern that in a year or two or three, we will talk again about how to repay the debts of those who do not pay taxes, spend enormous money in this society. We know we're in the market, so if we have the market, then please, and professional sports and professional leagues, let's cover how long they are as long as I can get the money from the sponsor as much as possible. The easiest way to come is to complain in cities, municipalities, county, or state. However, as much as we talk about promoting the state through sports, it seems to me that at these times we have much more important things. Because when we talk about 700 million kunas, I can only ask you what it means and what it's worth, it's for one Vartex worker or Mundos from Varazdin with a salary of 800 kuna. Their company must be very careful to pay taxes and contributions in time. We'll overwrite everything here with our broad arms. And another important thing, the question of the responsibility of the people who led to this. I'm afraid this story of ours is about the state's bodies, is it the attorney's office and everyone else, doing it maybe in 10 years, if some things haven't gone out of date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66958	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66959	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct an incorrect quote when an esteemed colleague quoted me as saying it. I said club directors were forced, forced to be on the edge of the law, to work on the edge of the law. So some people called them names like this or whatever.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66960	Replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66961	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Korenik's pointed out one problem correctly, and that's the question of these sports buildings, primarily sports halls. Because there's a question in some place where people from local self-government have managed to get some funding and with the help of the county and get to some sports hall, and with the help of the state in one part of it. The question of the use of the sports hall is raised. Because it doesn't define whether that school gym is going to be able to function as a sports club or not. And in what way it will be resolved. And it's also true that these gentlemen have their names and names, and it would be very good if those names and last names were given in an explanation. It would also be very good if the clubs were listed if we knew what that debt was. We know that in 2000 there were 577 million kunas. Now we've heard 700 million kunas. We're assuming it's a billion. It's also a fact that at least 70 halls could be built with it. And if it's a billion, it's 100 halls. And yet he would repeat the question of the sports hall in Djurdjenovac, which I also asked Mr. Primorac, and I also asked the President of the Parliament, Sheks, since he set up a cornerstone there. It's 800 students, it's some kind of school standard where those 800 students don't have a gym because the state hasn't given its share of 3 million and 600 thousand kunas. Local self-government has given and regional self-government has given its part, and the state does not appear. So would it be convenient to invite the students to boycott the class until the hall's funding continues?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66962	I have set up a cornerstone with this hall and provided a representative with a model of funding that is located in a part of the hall and has reached the condition in which it came. Same as Valpo's, same as Nasice. Well, I guess this other part will, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66963	But for three years, not a single stone was placed on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66964	Not placed because EB is a program etc. And the answer to the line, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66965	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I don't think there's a dispute about sports facilities in general. With very often still sports facilities being built, but later their maintenance, which is extremely expensive, is a big problem. I must stress here the problem that we discussed when we discussed the Water Management Act, water contribution and everything where the state is building something for the widest circle of people, including through all ministries, but it does not give up, for example, water contribution. Here's a colleague, Lesar, I remember, for a school sports hall calculated that before it even started working, 400 thousand kunas of water contribution should be paid. Therefore, it is obvious that decentralisation, decentralisation and decentralisation but not only of obligation but also of financial importance should benefit the units of local and regional self-government, there would be more sports facilities and also more quality. Because here I will highlight the example of the city of Ludbreg where it is going to be built along with the Ministry of School Sports, but the city has made a further decision to be in charge of being a hall of a better standard and it can be one model. There will probably be maintenance, but I'm also talking about small environments. We have a force of opportunity or an impediment to the municipality of a thousand, two inhabitants, with small small fiscal incomes that simply cannot sustain it. Then the county has to jump in, which is very financially tense, and that's what it's all about. So let's make it possible for everyone to play sports. We certainly don't send a good message when we forgive the money to those who will regain their confidence in it, and it won't answer to the authorities of this country. We'll even let them become co-owners of these clubs. You can wave to your colleague, I'm afraid some of the names mentioned in our public will be quite the owners, that they will work again, perhaps not directly but indirectly what they have done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66966	Thank you. We have two more replicas. This time is up and we will continue these replicas at 15 o'clock, Honorary Representative Drazen Bošnjaković and Honored Representative Franjo Arabović. We continue with the session and debate on the final proposal of the Sport Act. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's giving up the replica, fellow attorneys before the general authority you have for counsel, see if the power of attorney is right. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66968	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in Article 68(5): "The state encourages and helps care in physical culture and sport.". It is evident from this definition that sport should have a special place in our society, i.e. about sports and the Constitution itself defines as an activity of particular social interest. This in itself tells us how activities and jobs that enable children, young people and adults to meet the need for exercise and play, to develop psycho-physical skills, sports skills and sports results at all levels of competition should be given and provided a special place. That is why we should all be in the interest of passing this law because we bring it primarily because of sports in Croatia, Croatian athletes, encouraging and supporting sports for all and creating conditions for young people to choose a healthy lifestyle. Because when we talk about sports and this occasion today, when we discuss the Law on Sports, we must not forget how sport or its effects are the same as athletes, the extended hand of a country in the world, in a positive sense. This is mainly important for relatively small and young countries such as Croatia. Sports and athletes are the best media for its promotion and affirmation in the world. The proposer of this law has done a great job by proposing a law that tries to solve many unresolved problems related to the successful functioning of Croatian sport. What I find particularly important in this bill is certainly the fact that it is better to identify and regulate the issue of ownership and management in the fields and halls so that interested children and young people can compete and recreation. Encouragement is given to school sport which is the basis for later successes in cadet, junior and senior ages. If the basic provisions of this law succeed in providing conditions for young and talented, talented players to remain in their clubs in Croatia then they would create new incentives and quality concentration. I particularly consider it important to organise relationships in the domain of professional sport and to clearly distinguish between amateur and professional sports and also facts about the establishment of clubs as stakeholders, noting that the future will only answer the question of what will happen with smaller environments that have been affirmed in the production of quality athletes. Also, this law should finally introduce order in the legitimate business of sport because without it and the mess that has so far ruled Croatian sport we will not be able to take a step further. Although I am pleased with this bill and its adoption and especially with the issue of ownership of sports facilities standardisation of sports facilities cannot and does not mention one segment relating to the question of all issues, which is the financing of sports. Namely, I belong to a group of those who say that Croatian sport has not and has not had a crisis of results but has a crisis of funding. They cannot be impressed that sport remains particularly at lower local levels dependent on the budgets of these units of local self-government and regional self-government, and often the most tragic height of these modest funds allocated to sport at local level is dependent on the will andafinities or sympathy of political structures and groups and mutual relationships. This law only deals with fundamental issues with funding and... implementing sublaws or certain other laws to regulate the issue of sport financing. [[You don't understand the speaker.]] Personally, I would be very happy if, on this issue after the adoption of this law, sport had the same status in Croatia as culture because the ratio that exists today on the route of sport: culture is important to the harm of sports. And if the sources of funding won't be high-quality, unless the Ministry of Finance offers real and fair laws in this regard all of what we're talking about today could remain just a dead letter on paper. Regardless of the fact that some will say how this issue should be dealt with by specific laws, the Law on income tax, the Law on profit tax, because otherwise there would have been a overlap if this law had been resolved, I am the advocate of how it had yet to be parallel with the adoption of this law and to give us proposals of these laws which would resolve this issue. Because the rescue of sports in this respect of funding I see only in stimulating investment through tax relief. In conclusion, I would like to say that above the average results of our athletes, let us only remember their immeasurable contribution to the affirmation of Croatia starting with basketball players led by Drazen Petrovic whose anniversary of death is now, Goran's finale in Wimbledon, the unrepeated Janica and Ivica, our handball players led by Lino Cervar, and finally the gymnasts led by my protégé Filip Ude and many others have completed this modern approach to the Sport Act. And I hope, first of all, that any doubts about funding will soon be solved in the same quality way as the Sport Act itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66969	Thank you. Replica's respected representative, Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66970	Thank you very much. Here, I would completely agree with the presentation of my colleagues regarding the provisions on sports financing. In my presentation and through my amendments, I have suggested that this issue be resolved by at least a large part through this law in a way that determines the precise and decident separations from the state budget or the budget of the units of local self-government because it is actually the only way to address the issue of financing quality and lastingly and thus the overall functioning of sport in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66971	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66972	Well, I do, Velimir Dance. I am particularly pleased when one of the top athletes, in this case Mrs. Perman agrees with what I said about sports, and what she agrees with me is that we only think equally about the financing of sports today. Only the ways we want to say it are different for us. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66973	Thank you. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66974	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, and I think we have a very decent law here, and this law provides a good regulatory framework that regulates the pursuit of sporting activity. Sports is undoubtedly a very important segment of our life and sport, certainly not only are they top-notch results, only those top sportsmen who are engaged in sports and who are actually called by life and who live on it, but sports is everything else. They are also recreationals, they are amateurs, and I would especially say that sports and those kids who are involved in sports are outside school activities. So, of course, we have a common interest in regulating all of this in one quality and good way to ensure that these activities are done and that all of this takes place in accordance with the rules and that there are no unregulated zones. So we don't have this kind of discussion like we have today. I am personally sorry to see that one large part of this debate has been spent on debate whether the state is writing off some sports clubs or not. There's a great deal of regret. One big skeptic. We were calculating how many halls were written off. How many pools are written off? But I don't think that's the central question of this law. And I think actually the central question of this law is the entire system of sports that he regulates. This is one of the questions that actually points to the failure of the state, I would say before 2000 and 2000-2004, and it would actually be much better for us if we had passed this law in 2000, 2004 maybe because we had a much clearer and much more transparent situation. And like this, there were words that it was an underline actually lines. One new beginning actually in the business of these sports clubs. I'd say that might not be the case, wouldn't it? I would not say that this is about classical write-off or discharge of debt, but simply here it is about turning the claim the state has towards these sports clubs, turning it into a equity or membership stake in those associations or clubs which the state can therefore transfer to local self-government units, whether or not it has to. It is further a matter of the will of these local self-government units that this membership stake, I can improve it, I can sell it. They can come from those funds they get from selling that role, so they can work some kind of hall. I can do swimming pools or whatever. In any case, what I really think this law has a purpose, which is to make the whole system much neater and much more transparent. That's what's necessary because it actually hurts us all to see that we're uncompromised obligations, that maybe some levels have been denied, so we have less revenue in the budget. We've made fewer sports facilities and buildings. And that's exactly why this law I think is a very decent step because it introduces order into the whole system. It regulates actually some issues that have not been regulated so far, which is a question of sports associations as stock companies that will be in the whole system tomorrow. It regulates actually that this system must be transparent. All those contracts that will be, all those contracts have to be verified, there must be control over them. There's got to be some control and that's what's actually welcome in this whole system. What I would personally like is for all those preconditions that are necessary for the realisation of this Law to live up to. And that is that the Ministry has already mentioned a public-private partnership project in building halls, sports facilities and everything, and stuff like that. Because certainly a larger number of halls, a larger number of facilities will allow a larger circle of children and adults to be recreationally and otherwise engaged in sports. Because of course, every country's goal and ours is to raise actually sport activity, maybe not so many numbers, but sports today is one segment that must essentially become part of culture and lifestyle. Because we live in a completely different time where there are completely different habits and I have to admit that even in my family when I saw that I had to pay for aerobics in kindergarten, that I now have to go to elementary school for various sports activities was at the beginning of what I had to do when I had my own time where we were self-organizing, so we played football in the meadow after class, but today I see we live in a completely different time. And it's just necessary. Because if we don't start dealing with this problem in a family that way, we have a world of Internet, a world of computers and actually kids aren't gonna play football on the meadow, but they're gonna play it on "play-station". And that's why I think this law is very good because it creates a prerequisite. He's building a foundation. And its realization will depend, of course, on the material possibilities they will be in this country. But the ministry announced this very useful and significant project of public-private partnership because sports halls are necessary. Not just sports halls. There are simple and much cheaper variants, and that has already been done by many counties and cities. They're cycling trails, they're not supposed to, they don't need to put a basket in some sports court and pave a certain, specific plot next to it. It's not a big investment. It's a matter of quite good faith. And a lot of things are said about this law too, so I wouldn't repeat it. The colleagues who already discussed it. I think the law is good. It provides a very good normative framework for performing sports activities. I think this solution that's offered to turn and transform sports societies into stock companies, too, I think it's good. And it's not that, I'll say it's not that unknown model. We must remember that in 2001 we passed the Law on the collection of outstanding claims from this country relating to taxes, customs, contributions, state guarantees where also one of the forms of payment of these claims was that what the state actually wrote off part of the debt to them means that whoever paid those tax debts once he had a discount of 60 so I don't know already up to 40, 30% but also the state also prescribed in this law a way that it could replace its claim for a member or owner's share in such a company which meant he had tax obligations. This is nothing unknown, although this system has experienced its affirmation in Spain, I think it should be applied here as well, unless colleagues know some different, some better model and we certainly see today that a lot of amendments have been submitted. The Government and the Proposer will discuss this for sure. Mr. President, I fully support this law. I think it's a perfectly correct normative framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66975	Thank you. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66976	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be very brief given that I noticed in the debate so far that few people have anything against passing such a law as the promoter put us on the bench yesterday and today. I'll just say that I support this law, that it's very good, that it will solve many things in Croatian sport. In perspective, I'm saying if we all try to make this law come to life and it starts to apply. So I'm giving full support to this law, and I think in a few years we'll all be lucky to have adopted this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66977	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66978	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Lino Cervar's esteemed representative, about I'll paraphrasise him with a beautiful sentence he said that clubs take on the role of parents, about like that. We all know parents have less and less time. They need to focus more and more clearly on their work so that so many resources are needed that they will then spend normally on their children. Clubs are kind of clear to move or drag those kids off the street, so it's safe to put an emphasis on sports. Mr. Bošnjakovic mentioned the law there just before in 2001, 2002, based on which our companies, many were also privately owned, not only in public written off over 7 billion kunas. However, it is also freely possible to call this law or the Law on Professional Football that we are discussing today or the Law on eradicating claims by the state towards football clubs. Professional football clubs for me at this point certainly have at least one billion kuna outstanding liabilities. Minister Primorac said in 3.3 that this debt is 700 million kuna. That number or that number was repeated during yesterday's debate. This morning I mentioned the minister of the Church who literally said that in July 2000 Dinamo owed the state 303.2 million kuna. Hajduk from Split 192.5 million kuna. Osijek 54.4 million kuna. River 47.3 million kuna. So these four professional clubs owed the state 577.5 million kuna. Where are the outstanding claims of all other Croatian professional, semi-professional clubs. That's why I'm saying that the total dubious is over a billion and 500 million kuna and we see nothing. On the other hand, in the last 16 years, respected gentlemen at least 4,000 companies have gone bankrupt, better said in liquidation. I don't go into the causes of war, banishing a large number of people from the east to the west, losing the market in ex Yugoslavia, the former Soviet Union, etc. But that's why hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost, and we in this country are not thinking at this point, let's not even think about helping bankrupt companies, but we're thinking in a concrete case about helping bankrupt football clubs. And that's why this law is somehow called a law on professional football. I agree that this concern of the state is kind of fine. I said this morning at the time of the debate that with that professional football, with those many of our clubs, I would almost dare say and all of us in these benches identify ourselves. We all like to follow the sport and as I said this morning and I will repeat that sport is likely for the Republic of Croatia for its promotion done more than our presidents and representatives of the government and ministers did, and I do not know the ambassadors and we parliamentary representatives together. So, in one word, we owe these athletes a lot, but at this point in between, no matter what Lino Cervar calls it, a new economy, etc. Retired, unemployed, pregnant, and that professional football, I would still opt for those social categories that are no longer cared for at this point. I also agree that we need the law. Something needs to be done. But if the state does write off claims, then let it do it nicely to its own harm, but not to transfer them to any other paused local self-government. If local self-government on the other hand intends to enter these professional clubs, I always put emphasis on professional ones, not amateurs. That's what local self-government has to follow, then let them do it, but on one condition these clubs don't have a single kuna of dubiosis. That's the point, not that I don't know our country as in the case of general hospitals, but the burden of substituting these dubiosiss to those environments that simply don't have any, that don't have any money. How would I say, say, in the government or the ministries in general, it has the courage to talk about this professional football, and not parallelly open a debate about the financing of counties, when we know that their budgets are from 60 to 250 million kuna. So somewhere between 8 and 30 million euros. What can you do at this hour with 8 or 30 million euros? Well, you can't have any half-amateur so to speak, the club runs, let alone direct development in some county space. Finally, if we want to go from 8 to 30 million euros between the general hospitals on the one hand and professional football, I will always choose to take care of the general hospitals. For the 8 to 30 million in between, I am now talking about retirement homes and professional football, I will choose clear pensioners, etc. etc. What are we doing in some way that I'm afraid of doing with this law? As with the conversion of bankrupt clubs, we transfer to the burden of the state, or local self-government. Then after first we thank the conversion of the transformed company that failed to live. Today, our tycoons returned them to the state, or the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Sometimes new shares are shared, etc. We all know what's going on. What are we doing now? We settle debts to clubs as we have managed to settle debts to Croatian banks. And what happened after that? All major Croatian banks have been sold for no more than 7 billion kuna, cca billion dollars and some million dollars. On today, the assets of Croatian banks exceed 240 million kuna. We will de facto sell all these football clubs for one kuna, but before that by the state, we will wash those same clubs under quotes, over a billion or a billion and a half kuna debt. And that's one absurd total. And not to mention that those who are responsible for such a situation in this professional football tomorrow will not be sitting on the board of the football club but simply take it over as their own and maybe the day after that to a certain Abramovic or so on for a great deal of money, instead of the same individual sitting in some other institutions. So that's what I'm simply against, or that I'm just terrified of. Once again, local self-government gentlemen cannot take over clubs that have any minuses, i.e., but provided that local self-governments themselves are higher than that football, because that will put the intensity of the next day in the Croatian public, they have no obligation to anyone. There is not one city in this country that will not have to enter into such an arrangement, because you yourself know the public pressure, and then you will definitely have to reduce to dozens of others, perhaps in my court, incomparably more useful or equally useful things. Once again, our athletes are surely the best Croatian ambassadors. From Line Cervar, Mr. Arapovic, Bukic, Mrs. Perman, I don't know one Janica, Ivica, handball players, water poloists, about Ančić, Ljubicic who now plays, etc. That I don't waste words. And indeed one small country with 4.3 million inhabitants has fantastic sports results. Someone mentioned during the morning that in a year this nation won about 570 medals from world, Olympic, etc. The championships, which will say that every working day, some of our athletes bring two medals into the country. It's up to all of these people to hang on to what Mr. Cervar was talking about, that these clubs are taking care of their parents, us, etc. to move children off the street, clearly that sport should be helped and there should be sensitivity, but then perhaps a little distinction should be made between these huge dubiouss on the burden of the state that professional clubs have and these other sports societies that have largely celebrated this country. In one word, if the burden is transferred to local self-government, it is clear that the law is not acceptable, although I agree that it may be the last moment to do something that clubs can start breathing with their lungs from the next day.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66979	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66980	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's an incorrect allegation from Mr. Agent Cain that this is some football law, that this is. Here it says beautifully in the law that mandatory reshaping of handballs, football and basketball. These three collective sports are the highest debtors. It doesn't matter who's first, who's second, who's third. And there isn't, there's no way what you said to a kuna would happen, that someone would buy it. Whoever buys a sports stock company, if they turn Hajduk into that or Dinamo he buys and minuses, doesn't buy it just as clean as you thought to drag something sentimentalally tied here. Speaking of which, it's yours to fight for the pensioners, for the children, for the homes, so you could have made a friend of yours take a village a few years ago, but to make that village an eco for the children's village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66981	It wasn't a replica. The correction was from representative Arabovic. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66982	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State with representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we are, after the first debate, and even today at the proposal of this law, I believe that we all agree that the public and we, too, see from this debate, expect the adoption of this law and the resolution of many of the problems that abound with the activity of sport. There were many proposals in the debate in the first reading, and it is good that the promoter has accepted a large part and I have improved the first draft of the law. The proposed law prescribes the adoption of a national sport programme setting out the objectives of the development of overall sport, which is the basis of the sport development document. The proposed law also establishes the National Sports Council as a body that cares for the development and quality of sport. Article 4 provides that the composition of the National Council, which should have 12 members and presidents, is appointed by the Croatian Parliament, but on the proposal of the Minister who appoints 6 members in the first debate, I have indicated that certainly one representative and now I repeat again that one representative must indeed be a representative of school sport. School sport in this law is given a significant place, because sport of children and youth, i.e. sports in kindergartens and schools besides professional sport, must have a fundamental basis for a function in the development of sport. In the first debate, I also pointed out the problems faced by school sports companies in funding. The law stipulates that financial resources for the work of sports companies are provided in the state budget, the budget of units of local or regional regional self-government, are recorded on special cards in accounting, which has been so far. But very often, again, I point out these funds are spent on holding halls, courts, or even telling sanitary knots at school. I suggest that schools be obliged to submit a report on spent funds and for which purposes they are spent on those from which they were obtained. Article 17(3) provides that school sports companies use school premises for their activities and have a priority in using them in relation to external users. I again point to the problems of practice, as it often happens that cities, municipalities, counties, school founders make decisions on the use of the school space without being able to decide on it by the principal or school board at the very least. And just another suggestion. In Article 55, which defines the association of school sports associations and the Croatian School Sport Federation, paragraph 5, which states: The Minister of the Regulation prescribes a way of establishing tasks, a part-round and a way of working of school sports associations should be prescribed that these alliances must certainly be independent bodies because in some areas they are now established, but are part of the community of sports associations and associations, I think that because of the importance they must be independent. My colleague Perman warned today in her debate that often school sports alliances do not cooperate with sports associations and alliances, we also have the opposite case that these communities are often superior to school sports alliances. That's all from practice. I think it's important to point out something else. Article 18(2) provides that sports activities are also considered to be organised extracurricular sports activities and student sports activities. Because of the importance of this kind of sport, I have to point out now, and that's what I'm doing in my first reading. Sports extracurricular activities are a very important form of use of young people’s free time, often neglected in some areas. Why would I mention that? Unless the teacher of physical and health culture at school has enough hours to continue to receive extracurricular activities, which is not good. The ministry has to change the rules on school work norm, extracurricular activity must be evaluated as well as regular teaching, because it can be a good form of practice in sports activities especially in three-year craft schools where at this point in the programs we have you know it, just 35 hours a year in some programs of physical and health culture, and we want to educate healthy, physically capable future masters in our craft. Happy, I also pointed out that in the replica I gave to my colleague Bukic. I'm happy as an educator, which in public need in sports at national level is thought to be number one, I don't know if it's because of the importance, and probably because of the promotion and promotion of sports, especially sports of children, young people, students and disabled people in the first place. The important thing is, I'll tell you more about something. Because of those people teachers of enthusiasts who often use their leisure time without any compensation to organize in small local environments various tournaments, sports activities during winter or spring vacation students and thus occupy their time. I come from a city that has a great tradition of exactly this kind of organization of sports activities, and we realize it's extremely good. They should also be cared for in a way that is worth their work and financial value. And finally, what we haven't had so far, and what I particularly welcome, is the information system in sport that is being introduced to systematically track the situation in sport, but also to show what is done. And so far we've worked in sports, we've heard from my colleagues as much. So we have exceptional results for such a small country, extremely sports results in the world, but unfortunately you couldn't find the data in one place except that the Croatian Olympic Committee publishes every year that famous book of its great successes of Croatian sport, but about student sports, we still know little about student sports. Perhaps in the end another suggestion to think about everyone who deals with sports politics. I was saying this earlier today, that the Law on Preschool Education and Education in Article 15 found that children’s kindergartens included a programme of sports content. A large number of kindergartens implement these programs. I think that the Preschool Law should also establish the obligation of a sports programme, along with professional leadership, teachers of physical and health culture, or people who are trained to do so, because unfortunately today's health data show that more and more children and this very early age have health problems from too little movement or practice of any kind of activity. I will not last any longer, investment in young people, and in this segment of school sport is a good basis for all of our future professional results, and thus to prevent any form of violence in sport, so here is the moment I believe that we will also discuss this Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. As a result, it is important for schools and even in kindergartens to conduct education of children and youth in the fight against violent behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66983	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66984	Thank you very much. Mrs. Roksandić, in her presentation, praised the work of enthusiasts in small communities that create free time for children and young people and extracurricular programs. But if the law were to be passed in the text proposed, it would be disabled in more than 70% of small communities in the future, and such clubs could simply not operate in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66985	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66986	Here's my colleague Perman, so obviously we don't have the same understanding of it. I just think small clubs can act, that this investment in children's sport, in youth sport is a prerequisite for good professional sport. I commend just those enthusiasts, but I also advocate the evaluation of their work, and I don't see that this law can do it. We can do this by other laws, by those who are tied up, because everything is about working in schools. That's the basis. The law of both primary and secondary education and the Law on pre-school and school work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66987	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66988	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the current rules on sport have not offered adequate solutions, and impose the need to adopt new rules that would be satisfactory in the following parts of modern sports, sports system, sports activities, professional activities in sport, sports status issues, sports clubs, sports persons with disabilities, children and youth sport, sports and youth, health protection of athletes, inspectional supervision, public needs in sport, as well as public sports awards. I would also like to say a few words about the reasons why this Law is being passed. First of all, the Republic of Croatia does not have a national sport programme to create better conditions through long-term sport development policy for recreational sports by citizens in order to protect and improve health, but also better conditions for achieving the top results of Croatian athletes in international competitions. The Republic of Croatia does not have the highest professional sports body with most European countries, the National Sports Council, which discusses issues of the highest importance for sport and proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve sport. Then, in the sport of the Republic of Croatia, it is not a quality-defined system of sport, consisting of natural and legal persons, obligations and rights of persons in sport, the association of legal and natural persons performing sport activities, the part-rounding of the work of joint legal and physical persons, and the obligations and competences. The sports system in the Republic of Croatia is not in line with the system of sports in Europe and the world. The Croatian Paralympic Committee and the Croatian Olympic Committee of the Deaf so far have not been established. The sport of children and youth, i.e. sports at school, does not have a satisfactory place and quality solutions in current legal regulations. There are many issues that have been raised in practice, among them the most important: lack of space for the work of school sports companies to rent school sports halls to external users. Then under-experienced persons who carry out extracurricular sports activities at school. Then insufficient care about the health of children involved in sports at school. Weak association of school, sports clubs with other parts of the sport system, which is due to poor monitoring and guidance of children and youth involved in sports at school. Then inadequate status of school sports companies in the system of sports and poor position and formation of the Croatian School Sports Federation. An existing solution to the status of issues and rights that categorised athletes, particularly top-notch categorised athletes should have are currently out of standard and very unsatisfactory given the demand put forward by international sports competition. The major problem of the sport of the Republic of Croatia is the negative financial business of sports clubs. As a result, the potential for more than 7,000 registered sports clubs with more than 280 thousand athletes has not yet been used to the end. According to the available results of the Croatian Association for Sports Recreation, the number of participants in sports recreational programs is only about 10% of citizens, while in Western Europe the percentage of the population actively engaged in sports-recreative content is between 40% and 70%. Of course I'll support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66989	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66990	Dear Mr. President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I don't want to talk about sports, it's not my strong suit. I'll look back on the legal aspect of the law. In addition to my reserve, the principle reserve as many are covered by this Law, I would say the criminal activities of some participants in sporting events, I would like to conclude that the Law has made a major positive move in this reading. In a legal sense, this Law seems, I'd say, for three spears better than it looked in the first reading, and that's why I'm going to personally support it. I say, having somewhere in mind this reserve I've already expressed. As far as possible improvements are concerned, I have proposed four amendments. I had to fix one because there were some errors in the transcript. The first refers to, I think, perhaps too wide a commitment by the organizers of the event to cover certain costs. The second and third concerns, i.e. the second, the legal consequences, the convictions and the initiation of the proceedings. I think you've been there a lot, a lot too hard on what's really going on in your life, and I think that many young people would stay deprived of their careers inexcusably and disproportionately if it went with how you formulated it in article 13. So my proposal is to reduce the legal consequences of the conviction and the consequences of the initiation of the criminal proceedings. Furthermore, I also think that you've gone too far to limit local self-government in making all those documents regarding spatial planning. I even think that it is borderline from the aspect of the constitution in order for the provision of Article 68(1) to be unconstitutional. And also, I suggest that Article 90 be deleted which reduces the general provisions of the criminal law on who can initiate the infringement procedure. You have authorized the Minister alone as the sole instigator of a misdemeanor which I believe is contrary to the entire system of criminal law and that, needlessly, the Minister himself puts a burden upon him. I think misdemeanors should be dealt with by bodies that are at a much lower level than are ministers. Here, in conclusion, I am glad that many of the comments from the first reading debate are appreciated. And I think this is now one text that seems very polite about the legal picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66991	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66992	Thank you, Mr. President, Ministry representatives, State Secretary and Assistant Minister. I also made some suggestions in my first reading, so I would not say that I have made certain criticisms, but in any case, I am glad that at least some of it was adopted and I would like to join my colleague Josipovic for commending this Final Proposal of the Law. And I think there are clearly good, positive elements compared to first reading. We, as a club of HSS, have made certain amendments. I don't know how much the ministry is thinking or how much it's onto our amendment proposals, whether it's ready to accept it, but let me try to explain a little more because in the five minutes I've been at my disposal, I haven't really been able to explain everything. Namely, our amendments, we could have prepared them more of course, that's not a problem, but what we thought was about Amendment 1 where we actually tried to define what these are fundamental principles of olympicism and how they are contained in this Law. In fact, if the National Sports Council is mentioned then we believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee should indeed be a cloning of Croatian sport. It is also the highest professional organisation, and the law proposes that the National Sports Council be the authority of this profession, which is free to present to the political council formed by the Assembly of various structures, including distinguished fellow MPs. However, we believe that this would not be good as it was resolved by this Law but indeed that the National Sports Council would still be a more co-ordinated and advisory body and in this sense I would once again ask the Ministry and finally the Government to consider... the amendment and try to take it out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that when it comes to certain principles of olympics, I would especially like to mention here the fourth and fifth principles that speak about what the Law itself mentions that each individual must be allowed to play sports without discrimination of any kind and in the Olympic spirit, which requires mutual understanding, friendship, solidarity and fair play. The organisation, management and handling of sports must be controlled by independent sports organisations. It's connected to this amendment that I was just talking about. What I still think should be mentioned are our next two amendments concerning the performance of professional activities in sport. In fact, we are all aware that 10% of our sports population is not nearly enough in line with some European Union countries or in Europe, and that investment in sport must be with several aspects. On the one hand, perhaps financially allowing better quality infrastructure, but on the other hand, and developing awareness of the need to practice sports... What in a healthy body is a healthy spirit not to repeat it, but it seems to me that sometimes there are desires, there are needs, there are interests, but on the one hand there is nowhere to be recreationally engaged in people's sports, and on the other hand there are no professional leaders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now here we mention, in the Law among other things, that these professionals should actually have completed their higher education, it is assumed that there is also a Faculty of Kinesiology or possibly a Splitian, Department of Physical Culture. There are other higher education institutions such as the Pedagogical Academy in Rijeka and Zagreb or the School of Higher Education in Čakovec, however, this is not enough to educate a sufficient number of these professional and quality staffs regarding the needs of sports. Namely, I will not repeat here that there are 8 thousand clubs, it has already been said that there are 106 registered sports, but I would try to remind all of us here in addition to our amendment that the Chinese Faculty in Zagreb has a focus for 14 sports and now the question is who will be in favour of other sports, and there are 92 of them here, performing that professional training? We believe that it is not always crucial to have only a university, especially because when a professor of physical culture graduates from college, then he is not naturally trained to do all the professional tasks that are necessary in sports, and that is why it is very much necessary in sport and we advocate that, of course, the high school staff in sport must be, but there is too little to be, so that the proposal should be based among others on the academic, Croatian Olympic Academy, which may be necessary for this replacement to carry out professional activities in sport, for sure how successful it is for the number of people to replace it so that the proposal is, however, that the ministry should consider this amendment, because I also said in those 5 minutes that recreationally engaged sport is often in another plan because it is at the will of individuals, including local communities, but it should not be. This should be of state interest because I repeat these 10% of people who are engaged in sports in the Republic of Croatia are not enough, and up to about 30% or 25% to 30% will need a lot of, a lot of marketing work, a lot of money invested and a lot of infrastructure built. One of them is certainly a better quality, trained professional staff who can then guide certain sports in quality. Here's what I needed to explain once again, which is why I took part in this individual debate all with just the desire to repeat again what I said and the introduction that I, or rather I would not like, as an individual to be exclusively adventurous athletes, successful by watching television. I would also personally like to participate as a recreational and play football and tennis and engage in other sports, but sometimes I need to have a professional leader who would help me with all this. Not just me, but, of course, one team of people who wants to do it. So, I don't want us to have passive TV athletes, but I'd really like to animated all these... at least a large majority of those passive in active and recreational athletes, and sometimes we can also say that young people also make up top athletes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, with certain suggestions of the amendment that I hope will be very well considered, I thank you once again for those distinguished remarks that I have personally given as a representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66993	Thank you. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. We're going to a five-minute club debate. Dear Representative Biserka Perman, SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66994	Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here through this debate we got a total of letters and numbers, hopefully I didn't make a total of 93 amendments. Here I count all those amendments on the individual articles of the law that we have received during this time, which is approximately the same as the total number of articles of this Law. On behalf of the club, I think it already speaks for enough about how much interest this law has actually caused and in some way expresses the need for it to be revised again in detail and, if possible, to put as many of these observations into the final text of this law as possible, so I would like to, in the name of the SDP Club, in some way and recommend that it may be done once again before the final adoption, so that we may also have a third reading or eventually withdraw until autumn or next session. I don't think that would lose much and the law would still get quality. In any case, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to briefly underline once again the main parts of this law that we believe should be completed so that the law really achieves the goal and corrects the current as said by the minister of the catastrophic state of sports and offers a systematic solution to the functioning of sport as a whole and not just some sports so that some sports do not have a mother and other stepmoms and to allow the implementation of constitutional provisions on equality and equality for all and sports as a state interest. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to stimulate the investment of economic operators through tax incentives and at least double the current allocations for sport from the source funds of the state budget, thus achieving the separation of Denmark, Slovenia and Hungary and creating real assumptions for increasing the number of all categories of citizens who are constantly or occasionally engaged in sports activities compared to the current modest 10% population. The law on sport must not be almost and exclusively concerned with regulating finances and the functioning of professional sport as well as relations in sport, but must offer precise solutions from all other chapters. So, the problem of professional club debts must not be identified with sport at all, write them off in some future, turn them into someone's own shares and so on without anyone falling off their heads. This refers in particular to untouchable managers who dress bright and Croatian sport only taking care of their own personal interest and getting rich in interest and the expense of taxpayers. It is particularly important to use top athletes amateurs and resolve their status in all not only Olympic and professional sports, their existential issues such as sports scholarships, pension, disability and health insurance, scholarships, awards and the like. More specifically, it is necessary to write who can and cannot be a member of the assembly, administration and supervisory committees in order to avoid the outcome of competitions and abuses of positions and to remain in a position to have a positive impact on sport politics. As far as sports professional activities are concerned, it is not enough just to specify the mandatory level of professional training and not to provide for mechanisms and trainings that could be implemented without the exclusion of clubs from educational institutions that do not have a professor's certificate for all sports branches to clubs that do not have financial opportunities for the education of trainers. In the section of the State Prize in sport, it is necessary to equalise the rights of athletes, Olympics and non-Olympics to recognise and reward and determine the percentage of separation from the state budget for this purpose in order to avoid the government's campaign decision-making on the amount of rewards for some sports achievements and successes from case to case and dissatisfaction of other athletes who do not get a quick report of the congratulations and let alone a cash prize for the achievement of the same rank. I'll point out just one example. I don't know if you gentlemen from the ministry know that junior bowling players won three medals a dozen days ago at the World Cup. We have world champion and world record player Igor Sarquezi, bronze medals in men's couples Sarkezi-Bulka and bronze medal in sprint for juniors Marijana Liović. By the ministry no one came forward with a congratulated Croatian bowling alliance. As regards the financing of sport in the law, it is necessary to install minimum percentages of the amount of separation from both state and local budgets in order to maintain a level of quality in sport. So long as elite sports are funded along with other sports, these others will not stand a chance unless they are Olympic sports. Speaking of health care, I would like to highlight the importance of establishing the Croatian Institute of Sports Medicine at the Croatian Olympic Committee which would play a role in preventing sports injuries and the permanent education of sports workers and athletes. I would like to point out once again that the support of the SDP Club will depend on this bill on the fate of the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66995	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66996	Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This may be the first step in fixing relations in sport but in some areas it is evident that this is an insufficient step, it is evident that in some areas it is an incomplete step and it seems to us in some areas and a step in the wrong direction. That's almost a hundred amendments. However, the first step is and it is significant to say. The Sport Act did not satisfy the expectations of the Croatian People's Party Club, especially in some areas and I will list them. This is about transforming current clubs into sports stock companies, which is part of the organisation of preschool, school, student and recreational sports, it is about the status of sports clubs whose owner will become a state or local and regional self-government after the conversion. We are also dissatisfied with relatively high or too high criteria for individual employees in sport. The mayor or deputy mayor may have a high school or less. However, those who train their children, build in sport with their children must be first-raters, etc. Then there is also the status of the Croatian Olympic Centre Bjellolasica, which should be defined more precisely and more precisely. It is also necessary to define more precisely the attitude of sports judges and memberships in management bodies as well as the funding outside the teacher's teaching activity in school sports companies. With that in mind, colleagues and colleagues, we have given a series of amendments. We hope that these amendments will be accepted and that we will thus participate in improving this text of the law. But we would also like to remind you that only one third of this law deals with the basic goals of sport, i.e. Quality organization of free youth time, care for the health of young people at the stage of growth and the development of the organism, distance of young people from the street i.e. moving young people away from drugs, alcohol, cigarettes and crime. a the educational dimension is relatively poorly done in terms of learning teamwork, positive design of competition, creativity, resourcefulness, friendship. In the Club of the Croatian People's Party, we really hope that the Proposer will appreciate a large part of the amendments that are mentioned here in the debate and which are given to us in writing. In the last few hours we have received a really large number but we think it will also be worth monitoring in the next year, two days of implementation of this Law, the real effect in practical life and return to the law and objectively supplement it and change it in segments where it shows insufficient. And let's really do this job properly. We hope that when this Law appears next time in the Croatian Parliament and the level of debate on the law will be at the level of noble goals to be achieved through the Law on Sports, not through the law on political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66997	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Walter Poropat. Five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66998	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. He is finally welcome to the second reading of the Sport Act, and we at the IDS Club are convinced that, given what Mr. Minister said in his opening presentation, that given the debate that will be held today, he will certainly discuss quality and on the basis of these, a large number of amendments that have arrived at this proposal for a law on sport, the Law on Sport, which is very much needed for the Republic of Croatia, will finally be passed. All clubs and all sportsmen. It must not, of course, happen that the full cost of running some particularly professional clubs happens in such a way that clubs enter into the ownership of local self-government units, which is also how they do business now and how they live in big problems now, not to mention the problems of infrastructure, the problems that await us about the most basic things. It's environmental protection and not counting any further. The ownership of clubs, the local self-government unit can only happen in a way that participates in this, but like all other clubs, they must work transparently and economically commercially in order to track it exactly as it is already well known in Western European countries. Of course, the IDS Club will monitor how and how these amendments that have been submitted will be accepted or rejected. And that is why we have heard today from professional athletes, from top athletes who are also representatives to whom special honor should be given here, I believe that they will also show by their debates and voting how certain things accept and how they reject them. No matter what the party colors. So let's look at how sports are going to develop tomorrow the way athletes would want first, and that's how we all do it together. So I'm going to repeat what Mr. Cain, Mr. Cain, the president of the IDS Club, once again, has no decentralisation at the level of sport, and then simply athletes and clubs will gnaw in debt and what happens to me by this law if it is not passed and with the amendments adopted that give such solutions will happen that then these debts will disappear today, but for up to a year they will be the same if not greater. So I believe that as far as this proposal is concerned, which is very welcome to all of us and athletes, the most therefore, the IDS Club will support or reject in the way these amendments will be accepted or rejected, and I expect from the people who are athletes, professional athletes representing the Republic of Croatia and Croatian sport to still give that right in order for this law to be accepted for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u66999	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67000	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the final proposal of the Sport Act. I only have to say one observation that after the first reading I saw that those who gave the amendments today agreed already at first reading. And I wouldn't want to and I don't believe absolutely I can't believe that for political reasons they're now stuck with the amendments. But what doesn't mean, however, that the Proposer won't, I'm sure he will, that he will consider all the amendments and those he believes can be incorporated into the new law. That they will do so in the interest of our entire Croatian sport. And I must also say that and commend the promoter that for the first time I saw in one law that he came to a second reading of a law that respected many, many amendments or remarks that were made in the debates at first reading. I also have to say how I could have had the opportunity to read some amendments that some have written amendments and for sure what they are not behind. However, I think that sports is not just about the physical, the sport of a colleague and colleagues contributes to the development of an intellectual, ethical, emotional, psychological and human-social dimension of a person. And I don't think there really is, there is no more honest, warmer and emotional connection between displaced and native Croatia than monitoring the approach, behaviour and success of our athletes in all parts of the world. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the final proposal of the Law on Sport above all because it respects and recognises the millionth population of the Republic of Croatia. From preschool children, school children, youth, students, adults and those of advanced age and persons with disabilities. Everything. And those who deal directly or indirectly, water, follow, watch, live and die through their sports activities. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the law because for the first time, for the first time, we will have a national programme of sport, a national sports council, a harmonised system of sports in Croatia with those in Europe and the world. This law as we understand it is the basis for resolving all other issues from tax relief to resolving the status issues of top athletes, etc. And therefore, we propose that this law be adopted and therefore we support this law, because the most valuable goal of sport is happiness, not combating achievements. I think with that sport we're going to solve the complete strategy of our sport in our country, I'm saying to the benefit above all our children. This is the only way we will come to great value, which is what sport promotes, the spirit of community, selflessness, solidarity, style and mutual assistance. And finally, that sports message is the key to success for every community, and so is our homeland. My colleagues and colleagues, with great pleasure we will vote in favour of the law, for our largest electoral body, for the future of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67001	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67002	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Indeed, after this long debate, I can only say that we have come close to the end of this law. I want to remind you that for six years you've been trying to pass this law. Only now have we come and agreed on a very broad expert, and I must say here in the Croatian Parliament these questions. Because don't forget, this has been mentioned several times, we have observed a series of remarks and proposals from the first reading, and we have already considered, we are looking at some of your amendments and I can already say that we are going to adopt some, because the debate itself has focused on improving this system that is so important to Croatian society. I want to thank you on behalf of our ministry for your suggestions, for your constructive discussions. And I believe it will be of general benefit to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67003	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. First, we have two amendments to the Law on Sports that came after the deadline and we need to discuss and vote whether we will vote and discuss these amendments to the Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 74 for, 5 abstentions, 4 against. So we'll discuss and vote. Amendment 1. Minister Dragan Primorac, please explain Amendment 1. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67005	Mr. President, MPs and MPs! Let me just briefly explain Amendment 1. For the sake of the whole concept of this Sport Act, which addresses to the greatest extent the question of school university sport and children's status of amendment 1, Article 2(3) is amended in a way that changes the order of points within the said system, which first comes to sports in the education system and for the exceptional importance of sports for the development and education of children. There is a second programme for creating conditions for achieving the top results of Croatian athletes in international competitions. And on the third programme of creating conditions for recreational sport activities to protect and improve the health of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This way is actually and formally I would say the cemented thing that this law, which is a priority for young people and children, is about the new Sport Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67006	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 75 for one abstention. The government's amendment adopted. Amendment 2. Government. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67007	Thank you very much. Article 67 is amended and read, in accordance with both the strategy and the joint which we have discussed and the investment that is going on, and this is because of the exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia, this amendment has included the Croatian Olympic Centre "Belolasica" as a sports building of special interest for the Republic of Croatia in paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67008	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Government. Please vote. The result? There's no quorum. ... So, you don't include MPs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, let's determine the quorum. The quorum? It's 86 now. It needs to be activated, identified. Please vote again on Amendment 2. Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 74 for, 5 abstentions, 2 against. An amendment with that majority adopted. Now we're going to vote on the amendments tabled by representatives' clubs and MPs, committees. We have 95 amendments here. On behalf of HDZ representative, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67010	Mr. President, since you said there are over 90 amendments, I propose on the basis of Article 238a. Article 6 to be at the request of the club representative... The vote will be held by hand-lifting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67011	Okay. We've got a plate. 1st Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67012	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67013	It becomes an integral part of the law. 2nd Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67014	It shall not be accepted because of the wrong invitation to paragraph 2 instead of paragraph 3 but as regards the same amendment as the one under the regular number 3 that we adopt, this will be settled with the following.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67015	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67016	Since it's my fault, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67017	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 3. The Committee on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67018	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67019	It becomes an integral part of the law. 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67020	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67021	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 5. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67022	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67023	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 6. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67024	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67025	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 7. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67026	It's unacceptable. The National Council for Sports is an expert body composed of experts in the field of sports and has been developed by analogy of the National Council for Science and National Council for Higher Education, the highest body appointed by the Assembly and the role of the National Council in Europe which exists is not advisory but is that of the expert body.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67027	MP's club at the HSS is represented by Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67028	Mr. President, we were also on behalf of the club when we spoke very detailedly about this amendment of ours. We think it would be a good idea for the National Council to really accept it as... The body, so please vote on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67029	Please vote on this amendment which the Government does not accept. We vote manually. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 8th Representative of the Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67030	It shall not be accepted for the same reasons as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67031	She's a representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67032	Since it's practically the same amendment and it's not accepted then I don't think it makes any sense to vote. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67033	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 9. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67034	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67035	It's part of the law. Amendment of the 10th Representative, Željke Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67036	It is not accepted since the previous amendment, which is analogous to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, has been accepted, and with regard to the election of members of the National Council for the exact same reason as the previous two national councils which have shown very high efficiency in the last two and a half years of our mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67037	There's no representative. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. No one. 11. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67038	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67039	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 12th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67040	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67041	It's an integral part of the law. The 13th Representative of Pearl Perman?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67042	It's unacceptable. The explanation is that there has been another wrong call to item 2 instead of paragraph 3. However, regardless of the intensity of this Law, it is the law that if he wins the medal himself according to our experience, and yet I tell you the experience in the last two and a half years he can apply himself rather than wait for the Alliance... that the Alliance can ignore the need of athletes for six or eight months watching the awards and other rights of athletes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is absolutely in line with the traditions of other European states.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67043	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67044	Look, it's just that athletes often don't even know how the procedure works? Who needs to be addressed especially when it comes to athletes of younger age and when it comes to athletes from small backgrounds. So it's actually precisely because they're not familiar with their objective capabilities as they can and how they simply don't address their alliance or their club and don't use the right that results are based on them. In this way, since the alliances have the results of all athletes from each sport achieved during the competition season, I think this way, through the report to the Croatian Olympic Committee, that all athletes would at the same time get a solution to categorization in a way that would avoid unnecessary administration and unnecessary waiting. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67045	Please. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th Representative Ivo Josipovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67046	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67047	It becomes an integral part of the Law. The 15th Representative of Pearl Perman?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67048	It is not accepted and the intensity of the legislator is that that substance is regulated by the sublaw and for the sake of transparency, but here I want to make it very clear that the Ministry is only one of the bodies involved in the award process and every previous decision we get from the Olympic Committee or the Alliance that is scheduled. And also because of transparency, it is extremely important that everything is published in the National Journal and the conclusion is: The Ministry does nothing but work previously in agreement with the alliances, the opinion of the alliance and the Croatian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67049	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67050	This is about the claim that the act on, my claim that the act on the categorization of athletes does not determine rewards for sports achievements, but only possible monthly amounts of sports scholarships. Therefore, the awards for sports achievements are generally one-time cash amounts and I find them inappropriate to be determined by the minister especially when it comes to awards awarded by the Sports Federation or the community of sports of the city, the municipality or the county or sports club. In accordance with their financial opportunities, they should be determined by the entity that grants them. From the Croatian Olympic Committee to the lower. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67051	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 16th Representative of the Pearl of Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67052	It's not accepted even though the idea is very positive for thinking. The National Sports Council if, of course, the law is voted on can go on, and the reason is very simple. According to existing laws, 20 thousand kunas are considered non-taxable annually and we simply cannot enter the Tax Act and other laws through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67053	She's a representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67054	According to the now applicable acts in sport as well as the proposed text that is before us a top athlete has the right to a sports scholarship depending on the category but there is no way or mechanism for the consumption of that right. Practice has shown that in this way these rights are generally not realised because clubs have no money chronically and in fact all the burden is on them and cities, municipalities and counties, except a few exceptions also pay nothing. In the areas where scholarships and payments are paid, they are paid in multiple amounts and even part of these funds is held by the club. The most common consequence of this condition is that top athletes go right into the middle where something is paid by losing, losing the best players, and in this way many clubs are actually shutting down. .... /The speech room has been excluded./... would be the amount of all top athletes certain receipts which would make their further sports development, schooling and everyday life needs greatly easier. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67055	Please, who's for this amendment number 16? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17th and Representatives of Pearl Perman?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67056	It's unacceptable. And the reason is: namely this Law, what it predicted has already made a step in relation to many other countries and you yourself know that subsidized tuitions are not regulated by special regulations anywhere at least from literature that we have seen. But we have given one great support to all those conquerors, and you know yourself Olympic, Paralympic and Olympic games of deaf but of course with a very clear clause that for the first time is provided to top athletes such as Duja Draganja that we can finance them and reward their results. Although we can talk and put the subject of interest I think the National Sports Council or someone else should definitely... Because if we go to all the conquerors we will expand by at least 50 or 60 sports which definitely not only increases our budgets but gives us a crystal strong picture of who is who in sport and categorization but also about rewarding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67057	She's a representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67058	I believe, therefore, that given the name of this Law of Sports, I believe that it should not make any difference between Olympic and Neolimpic sports. This amendment would erase these differences further by acts of the National Sports Council, the Croatian Olympic Committee or all other sports-related structures can make a certain difference. However, since this is the Sports Act, he would have to treat all sports equally at the beginning. So I have proposed this amendment and I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67059	I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18. The HNS rep club?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67060	Amendments are not accepted. Reason: pensions are not regulated in other countries, however, other issues are raised here again, and these are issues, regardless of the need for a certain part of the athletes and a number of questions raised by the professional sports public, and this is the question of where and how are these pensions earned? Therefore, since the criteria are not very clear, we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67061	Representative Happy Ferenczak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67062	It's too bad, Mr. Minister, you can't accept this amendment. The criteria are very clear. So whoever wins the Olympic medal deserves a privileged pension. There's not a lot of athletes like that. If we were able to vote our own pensions in the Parliament, we could have put those athletes in a position to invest too little money that they themselves are working on. That's too bad, that's too bad. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67063	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. The 19th representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67064	It's unacceptable. We've talked about it before. In view of the limitations and setting up of state budgets and unclearly defined objectives. Although I repeat that the whole concept can be considered through a national strategy in the coming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67065	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67066	Namely, top athletes are constantly exposed to great physical efforts that can cause injuries, permanent damage, and disability. Since their sports career and the achievement of the top results mostly overlaps with an educational process which is often timed because of the scope of sports obligations, I believe that secure health care and several years of retirement until the end of schooling, or sports careers, so that at the same time with non-sporters, they can obtain the conditions for full pension. I'm undermining it, the amendment refers exactly to that period while the athlete has the status of a top athlete, and during that time he was neither employed nor trained, of course he suffered. There was the intensity of my amendment and therefore I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67067	Please vote for this amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20 MP Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67068	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67069	It becomes an integral part of the law. 21. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67070	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67071	It's part of the law. 22. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67072	It's unacceptable. The explanation, since the amendment was accepted under regular number 21, we have absorbed this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67073	Amendment 22 withdrawn. 23rd Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67074	It's unacceptable. Reason, as the amendment under regular number 21 has been accepted He definitely solves most of these questions that you asked. Maybe it's a little bit different.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67075	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67076	Well, I have to admit, I didn't go to a more detailed analysis of the HDZ Club's amendments. However, I would underline some of the intensities I had when I proposed a amendment like this. Namely, the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb has the possibility of training staff only in some 20 sports. And it is known that there are 106 registered in Croatia. So in the remaining 80 sports, they simply don't have the opportunity to educate the necessary staff. On the other hand, the schooling of so many coaches would really take too long, and this amendment would give the opportunity for top athletes to remain in sport and continue to pass on their experiences to younger people. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67077	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67078	It's not accepted, and in terms of reasoning it's the same as before. We made sure that even with the course, top athletes can work to preserve their deserved result and right. But also for those who aren't even coaches because they don't have a medal we gave them more than 8 years, so we increased from 5 to 8 to get first degree. And those who are 15 years old and we gave them the right to work. Therefore, the amendment under regular number 21 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67079	The HSS club? Representative Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67080	Well, I'd only pray that you can see here that it's not exactly the same. In the amendment, the number of the 21st HDZ Club says these jobs can be done temporarily. That should have been defined a little differently, a little more precisely. That's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67081	To vote, please. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 25th Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67082	Mr. President, for the same reasons, it is not accepted, since we have decided on the text, the amendment under regular number 21 which is clearer and more precisely defined for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67083	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67084	But I don't find amendment 21 regulated this question in the way it's required here. Mr. Minister, the problem remains and lies in the fact that there are 106 sports in Croatia, 8 thousand clubs. I'm afraid we're going to get into a good situation in order to push professionals, scientists, and so forth. We're going to be out of people doing this job in some environments. Who's gonna train us if he doesn't have a trained person? The Faculty of Kinesiology is here, the Faculty of Kinesis is training an insufficient number of people for as long as we need. So, I suggest you make it a limited time. But I've put it here in an explanation if we're going to go after it now a year, 100 people with a higher or high professional training can be educated. And we have 106 sports, 16,000 coaches. So we're even ten times as long as it takes us 16 years to school as many people as we need. That, this is just parole. Unless there's a local self-government unit so I don't insult anyone, so let someone else educated do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67085	Thank you very much. We will not vote on this amendment because it has already been voted on in the previous amendment, and it is completely identical to this amendment. So, the same applies to the 26th Amendment of the HNS Representatives Club, as the amendment has already been rejected by the vote. So we can't vote either. 27th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, same thing. We're going to the 28th Amendment, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67086	I understand 27, same thing. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67087	27 amendments. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67088	It's the same, I confirm it's the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67089	How it's the same when it's not the same. Well visible when it says in Articles 24 and 25, 26, it begins with if a particular sport etc. And here you add the words differently. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67090	It is not accepted that we have resonated and that we have said that accepting the amendments that follows will be a better and clearer solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67091	Representative Happy Ferenczak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67092	I agree, this amendment 21 covers the area... so it's okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67093	Retracted. 28 HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67094	is not accepted since the same solution... The amendment under regular number 30 which we consider to be a better and clearer provision, and they represent the exact same content. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67095	It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67096	Since as well as my colleague... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67097	Pulled. That's how you pull. Amendment 28 withdrawn. 29 same amendment, but MP Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67098	The esteemed Mr. Vidovic is also unacceptable, since he... the adoption of amendments under regular number 30 which are valid for the same reasons. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67099	Pulled 29. 30 MP Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67100	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67101	It becomes an integral part of the law. 31 The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67102	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67103	It becomes an integral part of the law. 32 HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67104	It's unacceptable. The reason is that the same solution is by accepting Amendment 31 which we consider to be more concise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67105	Representative Happy Ferenczak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67106	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67107	Amendment 32 withdrawn. 33 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67108	It is not accepted since the content of the amendment will try to be resolved through the amendments, of course we cannot prejudge, but under regular number 34 which defines something better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67109	The president of the board, Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67110	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67111	Amendment 33 withdrawn. 34 MP Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67112	It's not accepted in this form, and according to our... The amendment could be accepted if, in paragraph 1, the words "competitions" were to be inserted and the words "organise and run sports competitions" were to be added and the words "organise and run sports competitions" were to be given up from the proposed paragraph 3. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67113	Representative Ivo Josipovic agrees. Amendment withdrawn. The amendment was withdrawn and accepted in changed form. 35 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67114	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67115	It's part of the law. 36 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67116	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67117	It's part of the law. 37 HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67118	It is not accepted that that substance is regulated by a city collective agreement, or regulation on norms which we cannot influence through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67119	Representative Ferenchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67120	So if that matter was regulated by that rule, then those teachers would get money to work... sports activities, and then those school sports companies would probably work, and they don't work because these teachers don't get paid for it all together, and nobody's gonna work for the bad guy anymore. No more enthusiasm. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67121	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 38 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67122	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67123	It's part of the law. 39 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67124	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67125	It's an integral part. 40 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67126	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67127	It's part of the law. 41 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67128	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67129	It's part of the law. 42 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67130	It is not accepted in this form, but if the amendment promoter gave up part of the amendment to Article 26(3) of this Act... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67131	The president of the board, Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67132	On behalf of the Committee, I shall give up the first part of the amendment relating to paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67133	In that part of the amendment withdrawn, in the second accepted. 43 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67134	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67135	It's an integral part. 44 The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67136	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67137	It's part of the law. 45 HDZ representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67138	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67139	It's part of the law. 46 club representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67140	It is not accepted that an amendment under regular number 44 is almost identical. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67141	Retracted. The HSS representative club pulled 46. 47 MPs, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67142	It is not accepted, as the amendment under regular number 31 and 44 has already been regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67143	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67144	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67145	Amendment 47 withdrawn. 48 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67146	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67147	It's part of the law. 49 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67148	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67149	50 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67150	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67151	It's part of the law. 51 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67152	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67153	It's part of the law. 52 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67154	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67155	53 Clubs of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67156	In this form, Mr. President, we cannot accept it because the applicant's intensity was not to determine whether the club would be a professional or amateur club. And we have very well defined and included certain alliances that will define the status of an amateur or professional club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67157	Representative Happy Ferenczak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67158	Well, the intensity of this amendment is very clear and very defined. So if we, we've already forced local self-government to own a sports club, then this amendment requires that these players don't have millions of dollars like they do today, but they can only be amateurs. If the owner of "Dinama" becomes the City of Zagreb, one player cannot have a 100m-euro contract annually because from tax we can only finance amateur clubs or sports clubs and not pay millions of our tax taxes. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67159	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 54 representatives of Franjo Arapovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67160	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67161	It's part of the law. 55 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67162	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67163	It's part of the law. 56 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67164	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67165	It's part of the law. 57 House of Representatives Clubs of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67166	It is not accepted that an amendment under regular number 44 is accepted, which is more clearly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67167	Amendment 57 withdrawn. 58 representatives of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67168	It is not accepted on the grounds that the accepted amendment is under regular number 31 and 44 according to us more precisely...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67169	It's hard to hear. It's really hard to hear, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67170	Here's an esteemed representative. I'll do it again. Your amendment is not accepted by our argument because the amendment is accepted under regular number 31 and 44 which, in our opinion, are more precise and more clearly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67171	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67172	I think that in this amendment, given that it applies to the second article of the law, the same provision should also be transposed in these amendments as Mr. Minister said earlier, and for this very reason I have proposed this amendment in order for the text of the law to be uniform in all its content. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67173	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 59 HSS Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67174	Mr. President, for the same reasons, we do not accept, given that the amendment accepted under regular number 31 and 44 which, in our opinion, is more precise and more clearly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67175	It's not exactly the same. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67176	Let's go vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 60 representatives of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67177	It is not accepted, although not entirely identical, they have more precisely and more clearly defined the same question by our amendments under 31 and 44.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67178	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67179	Given the fact that the amendment does not apply to those earlier articles, I think that this article should also specify this exemption from a certain number of judges, so I would like to request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67180	To vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 61 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67181	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67182	It's part of the law. 62nd Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67183	It is not accepted since the failure to prescribe this substance does not prevent any establishment of such an institute that I personally consider necessary, but it does not need to be defined by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67184	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67185	So if such a formulation in the Law would not automatically mean that neither the necessary means for the establishment of such an institution would be secured in the state budget, that is, if the Croatian Olympic Committee and would like to establish it would have to subtract from that total amount of funding it otherwise receives for sport. It was necessary that the provisions of the Law, i.e. the Law on that institution, should provide for resources in the state budget. The more nowhere else in the Sport Act, the health protection of athletes and the health development strategy that we had at the debate a few days ago is not defined. And that way, athletes would be completely unprotected as far as the health side is concerned. So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67186	Please vote for this amendment. He didn't get the necessary majority. 63. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67187	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67188	It's an integral part of the law. 64th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67189	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67190	It's an integral part of the law. 65th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67191	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67192	It's an integral part of the law. 66th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67193	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67194	It's an integral part of the law. 67. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67195	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67196	It's an integral part of the law. 68. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67197	It's unacceptable. In our opinion, the accepted amendment is under regular number 67, which I repeat again, more precisely not entirely identical, but defines the same problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67198	It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67199	Of course, I don't agree with an explanation like this. I think ours is much more accurate and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67200	To vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 69th was consummated because it was identical to the previous one. 70th Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67201	It is not accepted since an amendment under regular number 67 that solves this problem has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67202	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67203	Well, since my previous amendment to the same problem wasn't accepted then this one doesn't even make sense anymore, so I'm pulling it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67204	Amendment 70 withdrawn. 71. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67205	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67206	It's an integral part of the law. 72nd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67207	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67208	It's an integral part of the law. 73rd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67209	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67210	It's an integral part of the law. 74. HNS's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67211	Mr. President, it is not accepted that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing an amendment that better and more precisely regulates that provision, and it is very clear that the issue of Bjellolasica is of national interest. And these days, the investment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is confirmed by an investment of nearly 120 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67212	Representative Happy Ferenczak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67213	Thank you very much. I don't know if your proposal is better, I think they're equal, but I'm withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67214	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. 75. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67215	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67216	It's an integral part of the law. 76th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67217	It is not accepted because the amendment under regular number 75 is accepted which defines something clearer and more precise for us. In this case, too, it is a case of banning the reuse of public sports buildings owned by cities, counties and municipalities, an immensely important issue that actually prevents children, young people who are the foundation of this Law from being left without sports grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67218	Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67219	I agree with the law's intensities, however, I would like to warn of the Constitutional Position on the adoption of these documents. And I'm warning you that the terrains are probably the only category of real estate, that you can even reschedul hospitals and government buildings and Parliament buildings, so we can't. But if the government thinks it's to a good degree with this first amendment, I'll withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67220	Amendment 76 withdrawn. 77th, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67221	It's unacceptable. According to us, this matter is regulated by a special law, or the Health Protection Act, but with regard to the concerns of athletes, allow Mr. President, a very important information. We envisioned special health care for children who deal with the issue of school sports. An immensely important category that has never existed in terms of sport among young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67222	We have to vote. No, who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 78th Amendment of Representative Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67223	It's unacceptable. We believe that this matter is also regulated by the Special Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67224	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67225	Unfortunately, this matter is not regulated by the Health Protection Act and is not regulated by any law. And ambulances, sports hospitals are not in the health system of the Republic of Croatia at all, and in this way they would allow units of local self-government to include them in the system. However, it is obvious that the intensity is not to protect all athletes, and that is exactly what I wanted with my amendment. To protect all athletes, not just athletes at school age because they are somewhat protected through school hospitals. However, the rest of the sportsmen's population remains in the wind. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67226	What's the score? Vote? Before the vote and then the result? He didn't get the necessary majority. The 78th Amendment. ... The 79th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67227	It's accepted in 79.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67228	It's an integral part of the law. The 80th Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67229	It is not accepted, since the amendment under regular number 62 has not been accepted and there is no point in mentioning it because it is related to it through the issue of the Croatian Institute of Sports Medicine.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67230	It becomes an integral part of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67231	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67232	It's unacceptable, yes. Yeah. Agent Perman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67233	Since no amendment under regular number 62 has been accepted, this amendment is losing its meaning, so I am withdrawing it. And so is the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67234	Amendment 81 withdrawn. Amendment to the 82nd Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67235	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67236	Accepted. ... 82. 83rd Representative of Pearl Perman. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67237	It is not accepted because during the debate it is very clear that different parts of Croatia and different parts of local self-government have different opportunities to finance sports. What's 5 or 3% enough of that to the other middle can't be enough to pay for the most important things in the question of water, sewers or education. So we can't generalize. That's our explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67238	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67239	It is clear that the needs in different local communities are also different. But the intensity of my amendment was just... certain minimum standards for sport needs to ensure the smooth functioning of sports at all levels and in all local communities in the Republic of Croatia. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker can't be heard.]] So please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67240	Please vote. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to the 84th Representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67241	It is not accepted that the practice of the European Union countries is not an award for Olympic sports, but I would like to point out here that the provisions of the law do not highlight and exclude that possibility, and we have recently seen that our European chess champion, Mr Kozul, reacted without delay, and seven days after his conquest, gave him the award and in fact no one got hurt about it, so we believe that, at this point, it is a good idea that we cannot accept it, it is not worked out until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67242	She's a representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67243	As I was saying when I was talking about sports scholarship awards, that is, protecting health and pension insurance athletes, and this is about equating Olympic and Neolimpic sports because this is the Law on Sports, not the Law on Olympic Sports, and that is why I have proposed such an amendment so that the law does not become a mother and other stepmoms, so I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67244	Please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 85. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67245	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67246	It's part of the law. 86th Representative Antun Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67247	It's not accepted, but if this amendment could be said "if you unauthorizedly intervene in the crossings of athletes from the club to the club, and since... Defined who is authorised to perform mediation activities" in this form could be accepted. ... [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] He's gone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67248	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 87th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67249	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67250	88.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67251	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67252	89.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67253	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67254	It's part of the law. 90. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67255	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67256	It's part of the law. 91. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67257	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67258	92. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67259	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67260	It becomes an integral part of the law. 93. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67261	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67262	It becomes an integral part of the law. 94. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67263	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67264	It's part of the law. 95. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67265	Mr. President, you're on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67266	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the second amendment of the Government. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67267	On behalf of the SDP club, I'd like a five-minute break for the vote agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67268	I need to give you 10 minutes maximum. Okay. Peace please, so let's get to it. Ten minutes of SDP counseling club. Ten minutes off. It's 4:00 P.M. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue with the session and the report by the representatives of the SDP Club, the respected representative of Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67270	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club kind of retreated into a conclave of a short-term to solve one of its little dilemmas. Namely, the law that is before us and the procedure that preceded it is as we have become accustomed to from the Ministry of Science in many laws, so the profession has been consulted, the debate has been broad, it has been conciliant, many proposals have come from the opposition, so that we do not have any objections from that point of view. However, the law left a great one, I would say, a moral and legal dilemma that our club can't cross. It is that the provisions of this law have in some way covered certain malversions and riching of individuals whose clubs, professional clubs, primarily football clubs served as a means. I have to say, that's the only big reason the representatives of our club won't be able to support this law. I say that with regret because a lot of things in the law are really good, but we are sorry that this High House has not been able to solve through this law what has been going on in sport for years and what is actually a serious crime that this country has failed to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-06-0.u67271	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before voting on the final draft of the law on the vote for Amendment No. 1 of the Government at the Sport Act, 75 votes were voted in favour and 1 abstention, so there was no quorum, and now we will repeat the vote on this amendment 1. Government. Please, let's get on with it. To vote for Amendment 1. Government. The result? 75 for nine abstentions, three against. So that amendment was also adopted and an integral part of the law. And now we're going to vote, I am voting on the final proposal of the Sport Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 69 votes for, 13 abstentions and 13 against, the Law on Sport was passed in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct an editorial of this text of the law before its publication in "The People's Journal". Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 86 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against the proposed conclusion has become, with this conclusion it has been consummated and the conclusion proposed by HSP's Club of Representatives.
