ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59816	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. No agenda - Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. 369. The Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HSP. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The Governments of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Representative of HSP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Pero Kovacevic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59817	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Please close your father for a moment and say the words "privatisation and conversion". I believe your first association to mention the word "privatisation and conversion" is robbery, robbery, theft. Remember immediately members of your family, friends, neighbors, and acquaintances who once worked and ended up on the road. Each of you will be able to count at least 4, 5 cases or more, from your environment, companies, legal entities that are thus privatized, converted, means through robbery, robbery and theft. The same association mentions the word "privatisation and conversion" has certainly over 95% of Croatian citizens. I said close your eyes, because this is exactly how Croatian citizens experience us, that we are closed eyes, or glare, all the time looking at the implementation of conversion and privatisation in Croatia, and that is what we do today. Conversion and privatisation is the biggest crime scene, the biggest wound cancer, the biggest failure in Croatia's newest state. From the moment you started, that is, the implementation of conversion and privatisation was also about corruption. Workers and Croatian defenders, pensioners and peasants were thus disproved. And how did it all start? We set out to convert and privatize at the time of the Homeland War. Croatian defenders defended Croatia, while tycoons, tycoons and similarists robbed Croatia. When the defenders came back from the battlefield, they had nowhere to work because their workplace was shut down. From the beginning, it was known that the conversion and privatisation would be a legal robbery and robbery. Let's say that the value of everything that was first converted from so-called. Social property in the state, and after that, in privatisation, was, say, 100 index points. How much capital in Croatia were there at the time? It's barely 20% to 30% index points, everything that's been evaluated and that's gone into conversion and privatisation. And it was already evident from this data that the conversion and privatisation could not end but, or could not go and could not go during the legality and during the interests of Croatian workers, Croatian pensioners, Croatian defenders, Croatian citizens, but only went into the interest of 1% of those who were rich in this way. The conversion and privatisation looked like a cassino that they could only get into. As soon as they got inside, their winnings were guaranteed. There was no place for the others, and they couldn't get into that casino. It was just a matter of how much he'd get. As soon as they entered, I say, it was clear that they would win, that they would succeed in their intention. They didn't pay anything, and then they resell it. And today they share the charity, they make the elite of Croatia, the media is full of them, and today those dissuaded workers want to further disenfranchise the vasal feudal relationship, and they say, they don't need any more half a vacation during working hours, they don't need anything. And why are they so insolent? They simply got everything on the plate, they never did anything and created anything, so they are treating Croatian employment today. They are now the main fighters for the establishment of the rule of law. They seek the principle of implementation in part of the principle of rule of law because they are guaranteed to protect. Buy in good, say an example of a banana, buy in good faith, mean a stolen car, you didn't know when you were buying it that it was a stolen car, so after a while the police would come knocking on your door and take that car away. Why? Because something stolen, which wasn't the property of the one that sold you the quotes, and you thought it was in good faith, that everything was clean, you'd take it away. What is privatisation according to the law? Privatisation is the contractual relationship of parties to which legal and natural persons buy shares, i.e. shares of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and other entities, pension funds. So that's how it was supposed to be. And it wasn't like that. So it's nice to say in the definition that it's a word to buy. And how did they buy it? Without lip, they got so-called. bank management credits. Those banks went to rehab afterwards. And how to resuscitate? The burden of taxpayers. And the banks themselves are who before, let's say Zagrebačka banka is still transformed by so-called Markovic's law. And then they made a deal and they paid it out of profits. Or another variant, about the assessment of what all estimates were at that time, buying sawmills, was estimated to be worth, say, a million euros, but on the lager there are 2 million euros, which is in the logs, which is in the building. And then even that million wasn't paid, but those two million are normally sold immediately, and then there's this resale course and everything else that was visible in all these situations. What were the main objectives of conversion and privatisation? It is said to have a positive impact on quantitative and qualitative overall economic development. It's a phrasing phrase. None of the most important points of view, nor from the moral point of view, the legal, political, economic and social objectives have been achieved. What was the review, how and how was the conversion and privatisation carried out in Croatia? It was found that in 1556 audits were unlawfully conducted, so it was unlawfully conducted from 1556 to 95.17%. For only 75 cases, it has been found that the conversion, i.e. privatisation, has been carried out in a legitimate manner. So 75 subjects found that the conversion, i.e. privatisation, was carried out in a legitimate manner, and in all others, so 95.17% were found to have been unlawfully implemented. The result was normally the loss of 400 thousand jobs. The result of that was the dissuasion of the pensioners. We know for ourselves that the ratio of insurance to the number of pensioners was 3.3:1 and now this ratio is 1.37:1. We know for ourselves how many workers are left on the road, we know for ourselves how long it takes a variety of bankruptcy procedures where workers have no chance at all to settle down. And so the legal situation has been legally established, so the actual state of affairs has been established by the audit authority which has been authorised for this law. It found that out of the 1556 cases supervised by the audit, only 75 were found to have been legally implemented. And now what's important to do? It is essential to apply it to the fact that the sanctions are in place. How to apply sanctions through the use of already known legal institutes in our legal theory and practice, and therefore we propose that sanctions be imposed on the established situation. How to implement sanctions through two important models, which is by advertising voids of all contracts in which conversion, i.e. privatisation, has been found to have been carried out in a legitimate manner. The second model is with the cancellation of the contract and the third is the ownership certificate. So through these three legal institutes we can put things on the line, because there is power, because there is will, it is one of the important differences between the Croatian party of rights and all the others. Today it is not a matter that has been resolved, and today it remains a matter that needs to be resolved. In this case, we are not so interested in the issue of criminal responsibility, and it was illusory to expect that someone from the Croatian Privatisation Fund will submit a criminal application against themselves or someone who works in a fund that thus enabled the grab, robbery, or under allegations of conversion and privatisation. We know that there has been a statute of limitations in terms of criminal responsibility, but there has been no statute of limitations in terms of advertising in vain and in terms of verifying ownership, meaning by determining how and how much of what the contract had to pay, how much was paid. The same Privatisation Fund, however, allowed the transfer of ownership even though no contractual obligation was carried out, whether it was the price to be paid by the buyer, whether it was that he had to carry out the recapitalisation, that he should have even hired new workers in some cases. Nothing has been done since the adoption of the law on conversion and privatisation was the only move passed by the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, but the great effort of the State Audit Office unless we can get the strength to do something smart, make something concrete for Croatian citizens, will be eaten by the donkey wolf. But no, be assured that we will constantly insist and suggest that what is guaranteed, which is illegally acquired, can never become legal. It can never become legal. This isn't about nationalisation. Nationalization means taken from the owner, but they're not the owners. So in these 1556 cases, other than those 75, everything else hasn't been acquired. How property could have been acquired when what the contract provided was not paid. How could this be passed on when it's not, you can't sell something that isn't yours. How can I buy under quotes now, not pay a contract price and still resell It in real law doesn't exist that institute that you can sell other people's property. It only exists in Croatia. There's only one in Croatia. And now that 98% of Croatian citizens rightly believe that we are staring all the time, that we have closed eyes to this problem, and we know for ourselves what the social situation is, we can do what the regulations, legal institutes of Croatia are already allowing and we say poppo, bobbo and let's tell them what they've been bailing on, and that's not how we're going to take it away from you. I therefore believe that you will discuss this issue from the point of view of Croatian citizens who elected us all to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59818	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59819	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Kovacevic, I'll quote you. Please close your eyes for a moment and say conversion and privatisation. It is not true that we have all participated in conversion and privatisation and it is not true that we must all close our eyes when the word conversion and privatisation is spoken. In conversion and privatisation...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59820	Thank you very much. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Honored Representative Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59821	Mr. President, honourable MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 39th session held on 31 January 2006, discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the HSP by an act of 17 October 2005. The Committee shall be based on Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out the reasons for the submission of this legislative proposal, in particular by noting the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure of declaring legally invalid any individual case of conversion and privatisation carried out in an unlawful manner. In the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the following debate, it was pointed out that all the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament relating to the reports relating to the conversion and privatisation are necessary to repeal the illegal activities done. As far as law enforcement is concerned, it is not disputed that it is not an emergency to submit this legal proposal. The debate noted that the Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund did not discuss reports from bodies responsible for reviewing conversion and privatisation. It is also pointed out that this proposal for a law is not technically necessary to regulate what could be done in a second reading. The question has also been raised why no revision of the contracts concluded and the subsequent sanctioned ones of the customers who did not comply with the contractual provisions were ever carried out. It is also proposed that the Croatian Privatisation Fund submit a report to the Parliament on its work. For the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a representative of the resolution ministry pointed out that all the reasons for the possible invalidity of the contract as well as the procedures for determining and invalidity were prescribed by other laws. In the case of unfounded wealth, the body responsible for the initiation of the procedure is the sanctioning of the State's attorney. The ministry representative also pointed out the fact that the deadlines for the revision of conversion and privatisation are not prescribed and that the revision can be carried out at all times. The majority of the members of the Committee agreed with the above opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as with the answers of the Ministry's representative, taking the view that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the constitutional and legal arrangements of its jurisdiction, is not responsible for the launch of the procedure for declaring legally invalid any individual case of conversion and privatisation, because other national authorities, as a State Attorney's Office, are the State Audit Office, the Contracting Party of HEP. After the debate, the Committee proposed the following conclusion with 5 votes in favour and 4 votes against the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59822	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59823	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So the subject of the revision of conversion and privatisation was also at the 17th session of our Parliament in December last year and indeed there was a very sharp, very comprehensive debate on the subject. We have no doubt at all in the good interest of the proposing colleagues of the HSP Club to introduce institutes with certain amendments to the law to sanction those irregularities that have been made in the privatisation and conversion. However, we believe that there is also a normative institute through which it and within the framework of existing norms to be done. What my colleague Kovacevic said in his opening statement is really one very exclusive, I would say, a picture in a large part of the public that privatisation is actually equal to robbery, kidnapping, grab, irregularity. However, I do not think that we should send such messages because nothing in the world is black and white, nothing is exclusive, and it is always necessary to move away and see things in their fullness and in their true content. I believe what my colleague said to close our eyes for a moment and see what lies ahead of us. But, you know, it's unfair for all those participants to privatize and convert that procedure in one good and quality way that we send these messages. I believe that if the workers of "Lura", "Dukata", "Jamnice", "Leda", "Kraza", "Podravka", "Windi", and now "Pika Vrbovac", "Belja", "Kutjevci cellars" and "Iloški cellars", if they had locked their eyes so that their thoughts would not come because they are actually companies that in conversion and privatisation are really, I would say, profited. When we see how the privatisation of such companies is carried out, I've just counted some examples that are obvious to us all, we see that this conversion has been done quite correctly and well. As a result of this transformation and employment of people, the consequence of this transformation and development of our brands in these companies that can indeed be dealt with in one market economy with everything that came after the opening of our market. I therefore think that such exclusive conclusions should not be made and should not be imposed but should be affirmed all that is in this privatisation and well done. Of course, I'm going to say as the HDZ Club, we also insist and ask very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, And yet I remind you that in December of last year, we reached conclusions, and that is not the declarative conclusions regarding privatisation and conversion, but rather, we have actually reached conclusions in the form of a warrant. In the form of a warrant that we give state bodies what they need to do and the thing is to actually follow what's going on in that story. One of the conclusions is, we have also obliged the State Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund to initiate the process of repealing conversion in societies in accordance with the provisions of the Law on General Administrative Procedure, where there is a basis for launching the void of the conversion solution. In the case of competent courts in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises, the Law on the Vulnerability of certain types of insurance contracts and credit agreements, procedures to determine the futility of contracts concluded in the process of conversion and privatisation. In the appointment of the state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, to which we gave the majority support of Mr Bajic here and whose work in the past term we rated very good and very good in the name of the club I also spoke at the time and said that it was actually a big space left for progress because in criminal proceedings we assessed both the up-to-date and the procedures that it was brought to a decent level, but we have just rated this segment as a segment in which the State's Attorney's Office can get significantly better results and in which it can make significant steps. So here in these conclusions we've made a concrete commitment. We also said that the Croatian Privatisation Fund is obliged to launch, on the basis of all reports of the State Audit Office, irregularities and irregularities in the conversion and privatisation and reports of the State's Attorney's Office as an authorised legal person of the proceedings, and the judicial, administrative, in order to restore illegally acquired property benefits by natural and legal persons in the process of conversion and privatisation. Conversion and privatisation has its two segments, it has that administrative segment that is covered by solutions that bring the Croatian Privatisation Fund and has that other property-legal civil aspect, which are those purchase contracts, the sale of shares or shares in society. So, this is a very complex process and of course, under the Law on Administrative Procedure, we have mechanisms and we have built-in institutes to undo, how to read the solution to nothing, and then again how to initiate before the competent courts the proceedings to determine the futility of such contracts, and afterwards the return of acquired property. We also gave this conclusion both to the State's Attorney's Office and the Privatisation Fund. In addition, we said that the Croatian Parliament obliges the State Attorney's Office to strengthen the work on criminal cases in relation to conversion and privatisation and, in accordance with its legal powers, to initiate legal proceedings in relation to conversion and privatisation in cases where the conditions are met and to take the necessary measures and legal actions in civil proceedings in order to compensate for damages incurred in the conversion and privatisation. So, we are not satisfied, of course, with the criminal sanctioning that has been carried out so far by the state bodies, because of all these illegalities for which the colleague Kovacevic has presented concrete figures, it is true that very few cases in privatisation have passed in accordance with the law, most of them are actually found illegality, but we also have to make one distinction, any illegality is not and criminal, there are certain cases related to administrative proceedings, and those criminal ones must have special weight in order to be qualified as criminal. But in this conclusion of December of last year, we gave a warrant to the State's Attorney's office to strengthen the work and to actually make certain shifts. There is also one conclusion that we asked the Croatian Privatisation Fund to carry out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 47 for assets not included in the company value assessment. The Privatisation Act, which stipulates that shares, shares, things and rights which are not assessed in the value of the social capital of a legal person under the Conversion Act are transferred to the Fund if there are no grounds for the renewal of the procedure. So there is in practice and such a situation that some shares need to be transferred to the fund and here we undoubtedly said it in this conclusion too. And one of the very important ones relating to the Government is the conclusion that it says: "It is the Government of the Republic of Croatia's responsibility to ensure all necessary conditions for the work of the competent state authorities, in particular the State Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund to take the necessary measures and activities in relation to criminal, criminal, civil and property sanctioning illegality and irregularities in the conversion and privatisation procedures, the determination of invalidity or annulment of legal transactions concluded in the processes of conversion and privatisation that are contrary to the Constitution and the laws, the return of illegally acquired property during the conversion and privatisation, the compensation done during the conversion and privatisation, the protection of property and the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia." So, I think most of the main conclusions that we made in December last year I repeated here for a reason because I think they are very good quality and they are not a simple and mere declaration of what happened, but that they are a very clear and concrete warrant and the State Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would therefore like to reiterate that the Croatian Democratic Community Club is very determined to sanction all irregularities, that all irregularities that are in the transformation and privatisation are being brought under the law, to protect state property, that wherever possible through the competent procedures, it is an annulment that is illegal, but this law would indeed bring down the Government of the Republic of Croatia to that mere operational body that makes such conclusions, and already by law and we have the Croatian Privatisation Fund in charge, and we also have the State Attorney's Office to deal with this. According to these conclusions, it is the government that needs to create the conditions for these state bodies to implement all this, therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club has nothing against this goal, but we believe that the legislative and regulatory framework fully meets all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59824	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59825	A colleague, Bosnjakovic, mentioned "PPK Kutjevo" as an example of positive privatisation among others. "PK Kutjevo" is an example of privatisation in Croatian terms in the first decade of the existence of the Croatian state, so an example of the devastation of the economy, an example of robbery, an example of robbery, economic values in the newly created Croatian state, and not an example of legal privatisation. "PK Kutjevo" is now vegetating against the state in which the privatisation process was conducted, in which the biggest robbery was conducted during the time of the good part of Croatia's war, one part of Croatia was robbed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59826	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59827	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. This Act, proposed by the HSP Club, has only four articles, means the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to initiate the procedure of declaring legally invalid each individual case of conversion and privatisation unlawfully implemented. The procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be initiated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on official duty, without limitation to initiate the procedure referred to in paragraph 1. Article 20b is replaced by the following: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to initiate the ownership clearance procedure in each case, the Government undertakes that within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the procedure for the authorisation of ownership, with the consent of the Croatian Parliament, shall be prescribed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The request to initiate the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation shall be submitted within 180 days of the date of entry into force of this law." And Article 3. "This law shall enter into force on the eighth day of the day of its publication in the People's Journal." It is true, as Mr Kovacevic said, as the note found by the State Audit, that 95% of those thousands of 556 were illegal. The truth is that the authorities have done nothing about it. The truth is, as he said, I don't know, Mr. Glava, that was the biggest robbery in this nation's history. The truth is that conversion as nothing else has led to decomposition in this society. And the truth is probably that because of it, many companies failed, although not only because of it, it was war between 91 and 95, then the lost market I don't know ex Yugoslavia, Bosnia, Serbia, etc. It's a parallel-lost clearing market, but regardless of the conversion, we'll all agree, primarily led to the moral collapse of the nation in the moments when one of them fought and the other took hold. Today, unfortunately, the revision of conversion, privatisation is not possible. Unfortunately, it's not possible. Whoever pitted it was. It is the anthology of General Royce, and I think about it, the court shares the Croatian public. It's enough for our citizens to just look at what their neighbors who lost weight in the conversion had in '90s and what they own today. Of course what we see is insulting, it hurts. But what we're gonna do is pass on the cake grandmother. First of all, we gentlemen don't have an ally for one such "radical" reform in the media, not in the review, not in the prosecution, not in the courts, and I'm afraid we don't have any employees in these companies. That we don't have an ally, let's say we know in the judiciary. Here, I will not mention some examples that former High Court President Mr. Šepic is opening today, from how banks have affected court decisions, large companies, and then mentioning among other things the privatisation of Liburnia, etc. If this is not relevant, then it is certainly relevant that so far, because of the revision of the conversion and privatisation, according to the 2004 State Attorney's report, only two persons in this country have been suspended and two are fined. Therefore, after this knowledge, who will carry out the audit or more specifically how the proposings state in Article 1 that the declaration procedure is legally invalid each case. I doubt we have one. No one's gonna do that. I'm absolutely in. But I know it's impossible, that it's questionable. She's out of time. Of which, gentlemen, it has been thirteen, fourteen, fifteen and more years, sixteen years since some of these companies were privatised under Markovic's law. So, who pitted the pit. Do you think we can rely on media help? No, we're wrong. The media no longer depend on us or politics as they depended on the early 1990s. The media today, gentlemen, depends on the capital. What do you think, for example, that Croatian Radio-Television, let's say the mildest example, will say something about Croatia's insurance from which, for example, it receives 10 or 15 million kuna of sponsorship contracts annually. Well, he won't. Do you think any written medium will go against its sponsor? He won't. We only have the public. The public is for action, I agree here. But I'm not sure, for example, that employees in these systems today would be careful because we know how long they would last and we know that almost every such company would be for one such proposal. I'm afraid not. For example, do you think we could revise the transformation of those companies where, for example, the state guarantees some obligations or where jobs are concluded on the basis of the trust of leading people, etc. If that were the case, I'm afraid a good part of the Croatian economy would stop. Who'd like to work abroad with companies like that? I'm afraid no one. Well, gentlemen, at this time, we have neither reached pre-war industrial production nor reached pre-war gross social product per capital. Here, let's look at one of the best examples. Why did the Oil Man get out of the crisis in the mid-1990s? Well, because he had a permanent head office. These other shipyards are still convulsing today in dubiosis estimated at billions and billions of kunas. So I am absolutely for this law, no problem at all, we are for the law. But we're afraid gentlemen he's inconclusive. And on the other hand, we have to calculate whether it would do harm to the Croatian economy, perhaps even the same at this point as the conversion itself. It's the gentlemen of the Croatian paradox. It's absurd over absurds. These people of the 1990s who took part in this conversion today are, freely, the pillars of this society, in the right sense of that word, funding campaigns on even more independent than we do. They depend on the media, depending on who will lead each local community. So will any presidential candidate have or will not have any money? I know it should be the leg in that rotten pumpkin, but in 2006, Croatia is not the one from 1946 when such expropriations, nationalizations, I don't know "confiscations" were possible. Let's say, gentlemen, that's what Europe is looking at. I'm afraid we'd have a lot of problems. On the other hand, there is no Putin even though for our occasion some systems are here and more powerful than the Russian... But if the 2000 government that won the election on those programmes didn't have the courage to get into all of this, I'm afraid there's this one, and I'm afraid that's where one of the ministers would be, for example, Bozo Kovacevic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just look at this last law we had, football. What are we doing with the law on that sport? So we rehabilitate just about everything that's been going on. So we don't have the guts to bite into that rotten apple either, and where do we go about conversion? It grieves, but by revising or declaring that nothing is said here in any such case, I'm afraid at this point it's simply impossible. Finally, the state is here today to openly assist these individuals. We see it. Like Pero Kovacevic, for example, helped some employers. The local self-government is there to help these individuals because the fate of a single neighborhood depends on the survival of their company. I don't know, "Rovinja" by TDR, "Lure" where they're present. In Osijek of "Pivvara", I don't know, in Rijeka of "Lenca", "Technomont" in Pula, "Agrokor" the whole of Croatia and so on and so on. It's actually gentlemen at this point our destiny. You just need to say it in such a way, and I know it's probably not popular to say it like that. I agree you should break that rotten pumpkin with your foot, but that's impossible. It's possible, it's possible, but what would be the consequences? At this point, this should also be predicted and the answer should also be given. What about where some company went into the hands of a third? What is it where banks have taken over, for example, a hotel or a hotel system, and we know that today all banks are in the hands of foreigners. Well, clearly nothing's going to happen here. If we were to do so, Croatia would be within 24 hours, I will not say 24 hours, but just a few days isolated. Within a month, I'm afraid and hungry because no more loans would go towards this country. So what's coming to us? When the courts didn't prosecute anyone. When the state's attorney's office knows they won't do anything. When there is no consensus above all in public, the media and so on. When we know that no conversion has been annulled. It means that by tax policy we follow their work and in this way, at least in a fairer way share that extra profit in the mass of pauperised Croatian citizenship. Nothing more, but unfortunately at this point it's not possible or anything, nothing less should be done. The IDS was the first party to refer the Law to the parliamentary process on the revision of conversion in 1997. So I'm paraphrasing Mr. Kovacevic, and we didn't close our eyes. At the time, I spoke the same way as Mr Kovacevic spoke today, quoting Article 1. The Law on Conversion and Privatisation, where the 10th Holy Goals are instructed, which should be achieved after conversion by both Croatian society and Croatia as a whole. What happened? Nothing happened, nor was there any willingness to go into it, and I claim that today it is still possible from then on. It's frustrating. In a way insulting, it hurts, but unfortunately that's the case, and I would be personally the happiest person to change anything. Because I know some of them got the factory, some got the manager's loan, some got the apartment, some got the land. Some of us unfortunately got nothing. And I'm saying that the first ones who got all that, especially those who got the most, the factory, the bank, the hotel, and so on, sleep more incomparably than those who don't have anything, even though it should be the other way around. Actually, it's in the next one. The transformation could have been done, converted, there somewhere in 1995, 1996, 1997. As early as 1998, a little order began to take place in 1999. Today more,... The conversion, the revision, the revision, I meant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, more unfortunately, this revision by my court is difficult, hardly possible except that society and in the future will become more and more decomposed, and the community will assist under quotes those who have the most that tomorrow have more and more regardless of what the 1990s have had nothing. So, for example, today, talks are being held in the government to enable DDR, Pliva, Agrocor to sell, in fact, Croatia's insurance, which will only mean that these companies from tomorrow and their owners not to mention now the names that are on that National list yesterday from 1st to 10th place will have even more. What's a tragedy, but we're where we are and from that skin we can't take anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59828	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59829	More to help Agent Cain overcome this indifference. Not exactly his quote, which reads: "The revision of conversion and privatisation is not possible". The Aboriginals got their land after 270 years. American Indians after 220 years. Victims of privatisation, communism, after 70 and 80 years. We just need to change the system of obsolescence which is the basic dam of thieving in privatisation and we need to maintain the spirit of hope that this is possible to correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59830	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59831	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain. First of all, about the old age of nothingness. There is no statute of limitations in nothingness. And secondly, this isn't nationalisation because nationalizing means taking the owner, and we take the one who put up the pit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59832	Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. HSP counseling club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59833	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear Sir of the Croatian Government. Listening to his predecessors, a man wonders from where he was so disheartened that it was any other illegally acquired property that it was that, if someone from a car store had stolen a car, the system would have haunted him. I'm sure you'd make up for the damage. Not only would it be a criminal persecution, it would also be a compensation for damages. Here, however, everything seems so logical that nothing should be touched. If we question someone's illegally acquired property, we automatically turn out to be undermining a complete Croatian economy. This is not how I experience it, nor is it how the HSP Club experiences it, nor is it how most Croats experience it. So what's this about? This bill submitted by the club of HSP advocates deals with one fundamental item, one fundamental question, can we as a nation tolerate that someone has illegally acquired property. So, as a nation, can we tolerate that someone has acquired property illegally and continues to serve it peacefully. If we can tolerate it, if this is an acceptable way of functioning the Croatian state, then we disband all judicial authorities immediately, disband the police and retire home here from the Croatian Parliament. Then the complete justice system in Croatia doesn't need it. It then challenges the credibility of the state as a state that protects the constitutional principles of property protection. That's all we're talking about. Also, reading the Croatian Government's statement of our law, I could not be surprised at the level of misunderstanding with which the Croatian Government is approaching this problem. We can only wonder if it's a matter of real misunderstanding or if it's a matter of hypocritical misunderstanding in which you actually want to avoid one for them a hard and above all unpleasant job. But the job our court needs to do. So it's not about any obsolescence. We don't break any statutes. Obsolete is spoken of in terms of criminal liability. We're not talking about criminal responsibility here. Let him deal with the state's attorney's office. For the penalties of time, there is, of course, the corresponding therefore equally long outdated. But we're not talking about criminal responsibility here. We're talking about a return to the state of property that was illegally seized during privatisation. That's all we're talking about. There's no statute of limitations for that. He's got a statute of limitations, unfortunately. But there can be no speech of an age for taking away property, or declaring a worthless act of someone's own that property in one illegal way acquired it. That's what HSP deals with in this bill of law. And I would read here the conclusions that we all adopted to Parliament practically unanimously. Therefore, conclusion 8, adopted on 14 April 2005, so almost a year ago, the Croatian Parliament said that, after the deadlines set out in the previous points, it would consider all reports delivered and, on the basis of the debate, establish that the necessary measures would be taken within 90 days, in order to remove irregularities, illegality and possible compensation from the Republic of Croatia for the damages incurred in the conversion and privatisation. That's what this is about. With this law, we want to initiate procedures to remove irregularities, illegalities and damages from the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if someone has concluded with the State a privatisation contract, if he has violated that contract, if he has illegally acquired property by violating that contract, then that property is not his. And it should simply be legally established and it should be annulled as such, as a source of acquisition of property. That's all it's about. The question is, therefore, does the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government have the strength for such a step? An entirely principled question that also deals with a very specific problem. And these examples in privatisation unfortunately have seas. So we have a situation in the Dubrovnik area, in the privatisation of the "Dubrovnik coast" from Slano. He says that the land in Stone, Brocam and Šipan were free of any real estate relations. And these lands are estimated at the value of companies, and the equivalent is reserved on the basis of the fund's solution. So, we have situations where the land is misjudged, that the base of the misestimation of the value of the land is a acquired stock, or that it has been manipulated by shares of small shareholders. We have thousands and thousands of examples listed in the State Audit Report. What's scary is that, apart from calling for the responsible to be punished, nothing happened. Because I really don't know why, if in a thousand 556 companies are covered by the revision, if 75 of them are estimated to have been fully implemented in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 and Article 8. The Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, why the rest cannot be accessed by such a process of repealing the illegal acquisition of property. If we don't, if we don't decide on such a step, we're actually admitting that we're powerless in front of those who want to illegally acquire property. And that's the biggest message actually. That's why I'm inviting you to support the HSP's Club of Representatives initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59834	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59835	Mr. Tonchi Tadić... That we're disheartened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are not disheartened, we are cut off, discouraged, and, above all, aware that it will be nothing. And there won't be anything because we don't have an ally, unfortunately. Not in the judiciary, not in the media, not in the D.A.'s office, and I'm afraid...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59836	Thank you very much. HNS representative club, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59837	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, everything proposed today under this law acts as a pre-election trick or again a handful of dust to the citizens, robbed of Croatian citizens in the eyes. Because there was no political will either in 2000, no political will at all now to begin any debate at all, in any more serious debate about limitations, the annulment of some privatisations, the sanctioning of some. I'm going to elaborate on our conclusions that we made on two occasions. And I'd like not to go back to the robbery, not to return to what I was already saying here in the assembly, I'd just like to say some things about what the conversion and privatisation in Croatia has brought. She brought 450 thousand unemployed, 45 thousand prematurely driven into a disability pension, 1% abnormally wealthy, and 80% of citizens considered poor. That's what brought the conversion and privatisation. In order for us to put an end to it, we should primarily political will, and we did not show it because the conclusions we made on 14 April were proposed, and after the debate on the Review Report, on conversion, on the implementation of the revision, on the conversion and privatisation for the period from December 2003 to 2004, we then made eight conclusions and, among other things, we made the eighth one that we never put out of force, and we didn't even implement it. That conclusion number eight, by the way, was not signed by HSP and HNS, everyone else signed those conclusions, and we didn't want to sign them then because we thought that I was repeating it, throwing dust in the eyes of the robbed citizens. And in that conclusion, number eight says: After the deadlines set out in the previous points, the Croatian Parliament will consider all reports delivered and, on the basis of the debate carried out, establish the necessary measures within 90 days to remove irregularities, illegalities and possible damages to the Republic of Croatia for the damages incurred in the conversion and privatisation, and including what we did not get today, the new law on privatisation and, among other things, the... Until today we didn't get it, and then we're from the HNS club, actually a colleague Lesar asked who would do it, who would do it on behalf of the Croatian Parliament. [[You don't understand.]] No one to this day, 90 days ago, no one to this day has made a new proposal for a law on privatisation, no one to define... After that, some of the conclusions, the first five conclusions we made, in fact the first commitments we made to the State Attorney's Office, the Croatian National Bank, the State Agency for the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks and the Croatian Privatisation Fund, these reports came to the Assembly and we discussed these reports again, and we re-entered the new conclusions and then in those conclusions all of this, which is defined by this bill, which is now in the HSP procedure, all that is defined, all of which we defined these conclusions. [[You don't understand.]] Among other things, the number three conclusions say: The Croatian Privatisation Fund will, on the basis of these reports and others, launch as an authorised legal person appropriate proceedings of the court, administratively in order to restore the property benefit obtained illegally by natural and legal persons in the process of conversion and privatisation. This turns out to be our conclusion that the Croatian Privatisation Fund should be held, it should have been done, the courts should have done it. But when we look at the paper and look at these newspaper articles where they're told, where the judges tell their story, I wonder which judges were supposed to do it. Independent judges? We talk all the time when someone mentions something, we talk about an independent judiciary, and the sentence of one of the judges says, "We're not independent, we're scared, the judges are getting threats." And not to talk any further about the tooth and all those things that have come out in the paper these days where exactly where it is seen that the story of an independent judiciary is to hang a cat on a tail, it has nothing to do with the truth. There was some kind of note, so there was a warrant that was allowed, which is not to be solved, in which way we expect such a judiciary to do something, and we made ourselves aware that we would order the Croatian Privatisation Fund to do something to such a judge, that such courts would do something. That's funny! It's binding, conclusion four. It undertakes the State Attorney's Office to strengthen the work on criminal cases and to initiate legal proceedings in connection with the conversion and privatisation in cases where the conditions are met and to take the necessary measures and legal actions in civil and civil proceedings and so on. What did we spend on that conclusion? Nothing. Conclusion five. The State Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund should have initiated bankruptcy in cases where companies have unfounded and misrecorded as owners of state property or property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, launch certain procedures to return that property and to make payments on that property, means that the state is benefiting from that property. We didn't spend any of it. The conclusion number seven speaks of that amount of compensation for the use of property, and we know how many quarrys we have that work against the law, we know how much quarry doesn't pay the concession, and we expect that something that happened 10, 12, 13 years ago, now we solve it, and we're all talking about aging, we're all talking about how a grandmother with cookies went by, or you're in vain trying to play, and there's no, gentlemen, there's no political will. Evidence that there is no political will, our conclusion again, number eight, which we brought back then, which was December 17th, says the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of ensuring all necessary conditions for the work of the competent state bodies, particularly the State Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund, in order to take the necessary measures and activities effectively. First it's about this, then it's about the activities. What should the government provide for someone who has existed for so many years? Wasn't that what the government had to do with no such conclusion? And then the activities they need to do, it's criminal and civil property sanctioning, illegality and irregularities in conversion and privatisation procedures. Have we seen anything within these 90 days since those conclusions, have we seen good will to move in that direction? Not in the media, but not unofficially. Determining the futility or annulment of legal transactions concluded in conversion and privatisation proceedings which are contrary to the Constitution and the laws. In the report when we had the final audit report, the State Audit Office was told of a thousand 556 companies 95% were made illegal or not made in accordance with the law. I'm not saying it's all crimes, I'm not saying it's all serious crime, but where the law was looting, they haven't followed that law yet. Then the return of illegally acquired assets during conversion and privatisation. Nothing, nothing was done about it. Compensation of damage done during conversion and privatisation. No, however, we had here one proposal that should have been legalized and all that property that didn't go into bankruptcy that was still being robbed, and it was 2 million and 920 thousand square meters of surface and 89 thousand square meters of covered objects. Even that part still needs to get into this so we can legalize it. And more protection of the property and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we will probably also protect that property of our citizens who are in the Cayman Islands and I don't know what it's called, by various banks where our citizens saved our property and took our money there. And the worst thing of all of this, therefore the HSP comes with this proposal, there is point nine, which is "the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to propose within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament a new Law on Privatisation and a new Law on Public Private Partnership". Neither law nor law has passed for 90 days, neither law has entered the parliamentary procedure. We're discussing this, but the government had a commitment to our conclusions that we made, we gave it 90 days to come with the Privatisation Act and come with the Public-private Partnership Act. She didn't come. And we had a deadline, the Parliament had a deadline that we gave ourselves to build the Privatisation Act within 90 days and define the ESOP model. We defined that for ourselves, and from this, we concluded that on April 14, 2005. Not only has it been 90 days once, but many times it's been 90 days. Neither have we fulfilled our obligation nor has the government fulfilled its obligation. Does that mean that it can prove that there is a political will to be dealt with with this. No, there isn't, gentlemen, political will and I don't see it. And that's why HNS didn't participate in the signings, we didn't even vote for these conclusions because we knew it had nothing to do with reality. No one's gonna run anything. In fact, the dust is thrown to smooth the road nicely and can be driven further. We are not for such a principle, however, but we see that there is not enough political will to finally clear the issue or to arrest thieves or to say thieves are gone, let's move on. But we think and we think we should draw the line once and say it's over or it's not over. If we have the courage to say it's over, then gentlemen, let's draw a line, let's say you stole it, it's yours, and it's a finished story. But let's not promise citizens all the time, give them hope, put some kind of trust in institutions that don't work at all, and that won't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59838	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59839	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Kapraljevic's incorrect quote when he said that this proposal is an amendment to the law to throw dust into the eyes of the robbed citizens and that it is a pre-election trick. I must point out that this amendment and supplementation of this Act HSP was referred to last year in October, therefore, when there was no election. And don't be a demagoguer, Mr. Kapralevich, because I can't believe that everything we honestly and fairly refer to in the procedure, you're qualified to do some pre-election trick and throw dust into your eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59840	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59841	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to look back at this first part of the club exposure. The matter is clear and unmistakable. The State audit found that out of the thousands of 556 cases it controlled, it had carried out a revision of the conversion and privatisation found that only 75 cases had been carried out legally. So only 75 cases were conducted legally. And then Mr. Bosnjakovic points out examples. Mr. Bošnjakovic, out of a thousand 556, only 75 were legally implemented, and a thousand 481 is illegal. So, there's been an actual situation, and no one's done anything or done anything. And rightly, sanctions are always applicable to the established factual situation. And that's why I was filed, and when we talked at the 9th month last year that we know that it was, this Law was about reviewing conversion and privatisation, it was the government's regulation with the legal force, and then we had to pass a new law, that is, to establish that regulation. I then suggested that these provisions that are now in this Law mean nothing about a certificate of ownership to enter that law. It was not accepted, and then I made changes and additions, that is, the Law on Supplements, and we referred it as the HSP Club to the procedure. We knew the conclusions meant nothing. We know what conclusions mean. How many conclusions we have made in this Croatian Assembly so far, which has been carried out and in what form, very little. Here's the big difference. So for me, for us at the Croatian party club, the real question is not solved, we'll never put an end to it, because something that's guaranteed, something that's stolen, we can never admit to anyone that owns it. I told you that the Croatian people, the Croatian citizens, are predominant that this whole time, means not only us here in this fifth assembly of the Croatian Parliament, that this is what the previous government representatives have been lurking about, they have closed their eyes to this problem. If you say in good faith buy a car, when you buy it, you don't know it's stolen, they'll knock on you eventually and take that car, and we're just asking that all these legal institutes that already exist, which is the futility of contracts, cancelling and introducing a new legal institution of ownership clearance. It means it's just being applied, but... here in the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other is the legal force when it's in law. If we start talking here that there's no mood for who to do it, then normal, so what do we need choices for anyway? Why do Croatian citizens choose us? So they choose because 98% predominant, as we assume that when you say conversion and privatisation is immediately an association of robbery, robbery, theft. Huge, over 400,000 people have lost their jobs, we have 315 thousand unemployed and now those who are in this way, so somewhere there's an eclutant example of illegality if I say something, I'm going to take a case of a regular sawmill, if it's estimated at a million euros, and on the lager it had buildings, so wood and products worth 2 million euros, and that's because he bought it under quotes "bought" because he never paid those million euros, sold it right away, put it in his pocket 2 million euros, and then went into fair conversion and privatisation. So it's a simple thing, usually a simple thing. It's not for the futility of antiquity. If you bought it, then you have to pay for what it says in the privatisation contract. So that's the foundation. If you didn't pay, you can't sell any more because you can't sell something that isn't your property. Therefore, for nothing, there is never a statute of limitations. And the second model that we're going to do is verify ownership. This is for those cases that are not an eclatant example where nothing will be applied itself, but is not subject to the privatisation contract, i.e. no capitalisation, whatever is put into the contract, and then we go to the ownership certificate. That means the assessment was and it was, the State Audit found that it was worth, say, 10 million euros, you paid a million, therefore you're not the owner of the majority, but you'll be recognised that part which will be precisely determined to be 10% of the ownership and nothing changes Mr. Cain in that part. There's no way we're gonna fit the economy. Everything still works normally, but it's not Marco's owner, but Marco owns only 10%, and 90% joins the Privatisation Fund. So he's coming back to the state, right? Therefore, nothing is changed here, but only applies the right to an established factual situation. There's a difference between us and others who try it from the point of view of indifference. No, that question has never been resolved, here I am going to refer this law to procedure every six months. Every six months and every six months we will discuss it, and I believe the Croatian people expect it from us. He expects us to do and to save what can be saved, and there is much to be saved because I would be the happiest here today to say that 75 companies have been illegally committed to conversion and privatisation, and that for these other thousands of 400 and something implemented legally, then I would be happy, and I don't know why you are afraid to argue openly and let's take what the mandate has given us, given by the Croatian people, Croatian citizens. Why did we put the government on it? For a simple reason, because it means something was turned from social property to state property, and the government is giving a warrant to the State's Attorney's office, because the State's Attorney's Office in such cases represents the Government, and in order to work, the government has to give a warrant. It was illusory to expect someone from the Privatisation Fund to raise the issue of criminal responsibility, run this, run it. What will he do when he has taken part in all this? So the legal model is very clear, there are legal institutes and only those legal institutes should be applied to practice, and one who is not, if the judges, lawyers of anyone else, if they will not apply the laws passed by this Croatian Parliament so normally that there is no place for him there. Let's create this core that will launch this whole process, but in the sense that we can finally say that the conversion was made in such a way as to achieve an economic congestion that is important for the development of Croatia, because the fact that at the time it started to turn and privatise, the Croatian defenders defended the Croatian state, and the tycoons robbed the Croatian state. He talks enough about it. Enough is the fact that at the time the privatisation started, as in the index points, let's say that the total assets that needed, one part was privatized, were 100 index points, the capital in the country at the time was 20% to 25%. Everything about everything says that... He didn't come from outside capital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, let us direct the debate by restoring the trust of Croatian citizens and Croatian Parliament and the institutions of the state, do what someone has not done before, but it does not speculate that we do not initiate it and that we do it. Therefore, this thing is clear, it is not about any dusting in the eyes, we have put this proposal far before and we will repeat it until it passes in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59842	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59843	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am correcting the inaccuracies of colleagues Kovacevic that this law will be discussed every six months. You, Mr. Kovacevic, cannot know whether or not you will be discussing a law every six months or not because you have an example of the IDS law standing on the agenda for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59844	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59845	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pero Kovacevic says, "It was illusory to expect someone from the Croatian Privatisation Fund to launch a criminal application." It's not illusory at all, it's their obligation. By law, if they come across any suspicion of...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59846	Thank you. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Second Amendment, third, Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59847	Thank you very much. I am correcting the allegations by my colleagues, Kovacevic, that there is no order for illegal conversion to be annulled and property returned. On 16 December, the President of the Parliament of the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered to the Government of Croatia the conclusions of the Parliament of 15 December, saying that the Croatian Parliament is in charge of the Government to create conditions for the State Attorney's Office and the Privatisation Fund, among other things, for the launch of the procedure for the annulment of illegal privatisations and the return of illegally acquired assets during conversion and privatisation. The Council gave the Government a warrant to carry it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59848	And the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59849	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Kovacevic, who said that Mr Cain had reconciled himself with conversion and privatisation in this regard. Mr. Cain certainly did not reconcile with the conversion and privatisation she was but said about this, that there was no will of those who could do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59850	This is a commentary of the opinion on Agent Cain's proposal. Don't go to correcting an incorrect quote. At 10.49 hours, it is time for individual debates of ten minutes per item of the agenda. We've got six more clubs and 11 MPs. It is next for the Club of Independent Representatives, the respected representative Branimir Glavas and Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59851	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, on behalf of the Independent Club, I will say something about this bill, the additions to the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation initiated by the HSP Club. Unlike Mr. Kapraljevic, I don't think there's any political background in this initiative. However, even so far, we have witnessed that such initiatives have gone and been launched by different clubs, but in general they have not been accepted and have not been supported at least in these strategic definitions, from which it can be clearly concluded that in the past years there was no political will to touch the very core of the privatisation problem or the very possibility of the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation. If it wasn't for political will, I'd mention one case from my own experience. Not only is there no political will now, do not blame me for prejudicing both the future and the final decision on this bill on the revision of conversion and privatisation of amendments and additions. In 1997, in January, it seems to me that two, three months before the local elections and elections for the County House of the Parliament, I was present at the meeting of the Croatian Democratic Union High Body in Pantovac, chaired by the first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman. It was the beginning of January of 97. I received a call as chairman of the HDZ County Committee at the time to attend that body. It seems to me it was the HDZ Central Committee. The theme called "session" was "illegal conversion and privatisation, crime in privatisation" or something like that, don't take my word for it now, but there are safe records in HDZ archives from that session. So one single item on the agenda. It was in the early morning, the session started at 9:00. It was held on Pantovack, the agenda known, a response practically maximum of 100% of its 80 to 100 people in the Chamber of Presidents. At the beginning of the session, there's about 50 photo reporters, journalists, cameramen, cameras flashing, cameras buzzing. Shut up, waiting until that part of the media business to record has met the state summit, the state elite, the HDZ leadership from all over the country with a very important point of the "Crime in Conversion and Privatisation" agenda in January 97th. Normally, this has led to a great public interest, and this would have led to a great public interest on that day or that cold January moon in 97, given that the war was not yet ended at that time because I believe that the war was not over until 15 January 98, until the process of peaceful reintegration was completed in eastern Croatia. So no Croatian Podunavlje was returned to the Croatian state. So it's a state of war. The fact at the end of this war but the war for us Slavons and Baranjas. But the session doesn't start until the press does their part of the job. So, when all this is recorded together, cameras are well-recorded full of HDZ officials' halls, shut up and wait until the guards are away from media representatives. Media representatives are coming out, the hall is closing, the door is closing and the session is moving. It lasts exactly ten to one, from nine o'clock and a few minutes after the media did their part of the job, there was a bile debate. First, President Tudjman maintains an introductory word pointing to privatisation problems, the problems of crime in the privatisation that has been conducted for practically five, six years while the war rages in Croatia. There were a few other reporters, don't take my word for it now, I wouldn't want it, it's been seven, eight years since then, even nine years. So I wouldn't want to mention anyone, so it's replicating me if he hadn't attended that session, but the record shows who the rapporteurs were in that session and that session. The speakers are reporting, giving their opinions, their views. More or less you all know how to do it in parties, nothing is left to chance. Everyone performs their assigned party task and elaborates and presents what has been ordered by the party or party summits. Shut up, listen, watch and answer ten minutes to one. President Tudjman says, "He can't, it's over.". I say, "Please, I won't be long, just two minutes." And President Tudjman says then, "Well, here's the head and that's it. We're going to lunch." Ten, five to one, I get the word, and I say, "The president this morning when the meeting started," I repeat that story now, "The photographers, the press, flashing flashes, the cameras buzz. They expect, given that the session is closed to the public I expect to follow from this session a press release." So as it was then and even today happens on Croatian television, Dnevnik begins with the most important news. And the news, please, is very interesting for the entire Croatian public. The state leadership, the ruling party met and finally decided to start dealing with crime in privatisation and conversion. That would be news and a great interest in Croatian media, so state television in the middle of the day. And I say, "So I expect the President to follow a statement from this session. What we have discussed here, what we have concluded here, and what specific tasks and tasks we have outlined, decisions have also been made by state leadership through the institutions of the Croatian government will certainly give certain tasks, guidance to state institutions." I am primarily referring to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and other state institutions that do not have a high degree of independence, independence in terms of policy impact on the work of these state bodies. And I say this: "President if from that statement that I estimate will be issued today after this session there are not a few sentences that immediately after the end of this session, the Ministry of the Interior has brought in a few here present from this Chamber, it will be the most ordinary demagogy, Mr. President. It'll be a shot in the blank. It'll be a scam. It's just a hoax." The same way I'm standing next to you right now and I'm looking at you, so I'm standing behind a pay phone and I'm looking at a room with 70 or 80 people sitting there. Good part, I'll tell you, 95% of the people nodded their heads in favor of what I'm saying. A few of them I looked at and fixed down their noses. Their muzzle was drowsy and they weren't happy to hear what I was saying in front of that high body of HDZ and in front of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. President Tudjman, when I finished my two minutes, took my word and came for a pay phone and hit his fist in the pay phone, said, "You're in, there won't be a shot in the air. I promise you that!" The seat's over. I hurried home this afternoon to see what kind of announcement would come out in the Croatian daily that day. I was very interested in what the public contact services would say and translate into a statement from that session, and I hurried home so I wouldn't be late for the Dnevnik. I turned on the TV at home, half past eight. Not a word of the HDZ leadership session, the highest central body of HDZ in the Presidential Courts on the subject, has been held. "Fighting crime in privatisation and conversion." What happened? I never got an answer. I never got an answer. This can all be checked from the archives of Croatian television. It was January, early January 1997. The election was followed. The elections followed, so I think, in March for the County House of Parliament and local elections. From this you allow as an average informed citizen and politician to conclude: There was no goodwill. There was no sincere intention of biting into that tough nut. I have no doubt of the good intentions and determination of the first Croatian president when he hit the table with his fist because he hit it at a closed meeting. He squeezed his teeth and said, "The head won't be shot empty. I guarantee it and I promise." But what happened? What I heard later. It happened that the first Croatian president was then put in a position that individuals from the Croatian government, from other state institutions, were blackmailing him. "If it touches this, we will resign, the government will fall. If he touches that, we're gonna do this, we're gonna do that, we're gonna open up a big state problem." And the process of peaceful reintegration has not yet been completed. So there was no possibility, there was no will to bite into that hard nut. Sometimes from these excuses or excuses, sometimes those excuses, looking down from the height, from the top of the state, and holding water. She had her reasons. But responsibly, in most cases, there was no excuse not to go there. There was no excuse for not clearing things up. Already here is the fact that yesterday and today the full media are the statements of the former High Court of Commerce President. The problem is in these systems and in these institutions that have worked and worked for the first 8 years as cannons were tumbling through Croatia. While a third of Croatian territory was under occupation. Other mice gnawed, stole, robbed, misused the law, broke the law, and realized their personal interests. And so did that famous statement when it was mentioned, and yesterday was mentioned through the newspaper, though in an incorrect context that I broke up, broke the verdict. It connected to the events with Valpovo d.d. Which just isn't true. That wasn't true. The fact is, I broke the verdict. When? I'll tell you now. When it's legal to rob and grab property in the city of Osijek. It was a piece of property from Vojvodina during the war. Based on forged, falsified documents to come into private hands and become the property of PIC Vrbovac. And I said, "And why doesn't this property remain a white that's compatible in terms of production? Which was in the persecution of these war years, not in violation of the law, forging documents, and what the court knew was property being stolen and robbed and the High Court of Commerce blessed it with its verdict." So through these institutions and through these mechanisms, there's been a robbery, a legal robbery through all these years. And there was no good will in the first ten years. There was no good will to bite into that hard nut even during your coalition government fellow on the left side of my pay phone. It was what was trying to solve that mainly referred to small fish. Small fish took their heads off, and big fish had their hats off. The team, these big fish were then open roads to the highest state institutions. These large fish are open roads and open doors to the highest institutions today. So these are the things that cause these problems of ours. And today the phones are ringing, and last year the phones were ringing when something was to be privatized from the highest state level. And it has been typed and typed into this or the one that will enter the ownership structure of those economic operators that have survived to date and where that process is not finished either. This is how events will likely take place both in the coming time and in the next term. Don't make it look like I'm just targeting the current government. It's a simple line of less resistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59852	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59853	Mr. President, listening to this dramatic speech, I must say that from the first to the last, not that it's not true, it's a notorious lie. Because President Tudjman was never a coward and a hesitant. And these are dissidents all equal who are not at all different, nor Pasalic, nor my Head, nor Canjuga and other pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59854	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59855	Injury of the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 You, Mr. Pasecky, have no idea what happened back then, and you abuse the Rules of Procedure to insult me as an agent. You're an old man who's an old man.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59856	First of all, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's been established, Agent Pasecky has determined that you Mr. Glavas are telling the truth. And this is your insult to the advocate of the passover who deserves a proper reminder, and I say it to you. Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59857	Infringement of Article 209 Mr. Pasecky corrected the incorrect assumption and in that correction he was correcting something that was not said at all for this pay phone. In addition, Mr. Pasecky used expressions that actually offend, some dictators, but they don't insult the sense that he thinks we left HDZ. But if he thinks disciplinary at the state level, then it's an absolute insult. And I think you should give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59858	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Representative Pasecky claimed that the allegations of the previous speaker were not true. Whether or not they're true is another matter. But it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59859	Thank you very much. The Honorable Mr. MP said, quote: "There was no political will to sanction irregularities in privatisation."in the opening part of his speech. That's not true. It's coming out of the data we got recently from the State's Attorney's Office's audit. Since 1991, so before the state audit, since 1991, it has been filed for irregularities in privatisation of thousands of 48 criminal charges. It was filed on the basis of 41 charges. Since '91. A thousand and forty-eight criminal charges a year. So it was good faith. Personally, as a representative in 1993 in this House, I suggested a revision of management loans was accepted. Several hundred managerial loans were also implemented on the basis of the Parliament's decision. Hence, it was a good will that was done, and it is an honor to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59860	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59861	Mr. President, it is impossible for an agent in correcting an incorrect quote to provide incorrect information. 18 charges have been filed, not 43 for privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59862	You've now injured the Rules of Procedure because it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The representative Hebrang was on the subject of criminal charges...... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, yeah. ... So you can't verify anyone here... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If the representative claims that something is incorrect, then it is his claim, it is the correction of an incorrect allegation. And we can't carry out a proof procedure whether it's true or not. It's the Institute of Inaccuracy. Honorable representative William Herman, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59863	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the correction is an incorrect quote in the part where colleague Glavas said that he had not received the answer. He did not get it likely at that historic and crucial session as he himself exhibited, but the answers appear in different ways. He got it directly in Osijek and he knows a lot about it. It was won by the fates of "Analita", it was won through the fate of "Svilana", through the fate of "Lia" and some other important...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59864	These are not corrections to incorrect allegations. ... Something else. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59865	And don't intervene like this, because it's simply not correct. Therefore, a colleague named Glavas received an answer. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59866	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59867	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I would only correct one quote that sounded very strange to me. When Mr. Glavas said that this session could be found in the HDZ archives. Then he says that this session was in the president's office. It means you can do it, and the president's office is all public. So that could've been looked for in another way. He can't do that HDZ if it's done...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59868	Okay. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote! It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59869	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59870	Thank you very much, fellow Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59871	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59872	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. No more. HSS representative club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. [[You've got it right.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59873	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. After the Croatian Parliament held in the debate on the report on the revision and conversion and privatisation, and in particular the State's Attorney's Office's report, too long considered the conclusions that we should have made immediately after the debate was concluded, it was evident that the same would probably not be respected. What is normal to expect is that the most important conclusion should be translated into an amendment to the Law on Audit, Conversion and Privatisation. It is in this sense that we are also observing this proposal from the Club of Representatives of the HSP. The objective of these amendments is to oblige the Government to initiate the procedure of declaring legally invalid each individual case of conversion and privatisation unlawfully implemented and to initiate the ownership certification procedure in each case. We at the Croatian Peasant Party club support this amendment and addition proposal for the following reasons. The review process undoubtedly found that the privatisation did not achieve the objectives that led to the procedure. The objectives were drawn up by law and this faster economic growth, the preservation of productive employment, technological modernisation, the introduction of new modern and efficient management methods and skills. Instead of economic growth, we got a steep drop, instead of preserving productive employment we got after the conversion and privatisation of 60% of the unemployed, although we got new modern and only for them effective management skills. Indeed, something new and unknown has happened. It has undoubtedly been found that there have been huge damages in the privatisation process and that at least 60% to the day the employees have lost their jobs, and the culprit for all this is gone. It is determined who is and how he participated in the original accumulation of capital, and there is no responsibility for it. For failing to meet the privatisation goals, there is no justification in the Homeland War alone. It is true that privatisation began in the early 1990s, and the Homeland War in 91st. It was a completely bad and wrong political decision to privatise during the war. But when we look at what happened and how it happened during the privatisation, and everything is visible from the review office's report, it is to conclude that it was not by chance, and it was not even an accidental mistake. That decommissioning so-called. Social ownership had to come, but it was obvious that there was no intention of decommissioning in the way social property was created and no unknown was created. There were former owners and there were workers in the corporate self-management system who experienced their own and there was nothing strange about giving up their salaries or part of their wages to resuscitate the situation or other investment. But this way of decomposing social property did not fit the philosophy of 200 wealthy families. According to this philosophy, the capital that had until then had to be accumulated in the hands of a few, not in the hands of many workers. To do so in a more peaceful way, the time is appropriate, the time of war in which most are concerned with the problem of survival. A legal framework has also been created for the realization of the philosophy of 200 wealthy families. If that were not the case, it could not have happened that since 1936 irregularities for even 1215 there is no sign of a criminal offence, i.e. the law does not prescribe sanctions. The direct damage caused by privatisation is certainly greater than 4 billion marks, a reduction in core capital. We recall that out of a total of slightly less than 3,000 privatised companies, privatisation audits were carried out by 1556 capital companies, which accounts for 51% of privatised companies. But in these 51 total privatised, 51% of the total privatised companies, there was a reduction of capital by 4 billion marks through the privatisation process. There was a reduction in the number of employees by 400 thousand, which accounts for 60% of total employees in enterprises at the time of conversion. It should be borne in mind that up to the review of 345 companies is either ongoing or bankruptcy proceedings have been opened. Many companies were bankrupt at the time of the audit, and today they are in bankruptcy, and there has been a reduction in core capital and a new unemployment in employee bankruptcy. So the damages are much greater than what the review report told us. In May 2001, when the process of reviewing public expectations was launched, the perpetrators would be exposed, that the culprits would be punished in the criminal proceedings carried out. However, as many as 1215 irregularities do not have the character of a criminal offence, i.e. the laws do not provide for sanctions, and of 721 unconfirmed irregularities, it is reasonable to suspect that of 271 irregularities there are traits of a criminal offence. 71 criminal charges have been filed, but if the limitation deadlines are taken into account, there are no responsible ones for all the damages caused in the privatisation and there will be no penalties. Although it is evident that a political will has created a legal framework for privatisation as it happened, we feel that this House has no right to passively take it into consideration and to find helplessly to realize that nothing can be done. The damage was done not to aliens but to workers, to the citizens of this country. Staying only at the finding and accepting the impotence means that this assembly of parliament will enter history because it has legalized its impotence to the greatest robbery in Croatia's recent history. Therefore, we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club have proposed certain conclusions that would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures that would partially compensate for the damage caused in the privatisation. The proposal for these conclusions is based on a report by the State Attorney's Office which made it clear that compensation is possible. Following a long-standing alignment, this Assembly reached conclusions at its 17th session on 15 December 2005. The conclusions also oblige the State Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund to initiate the process of repealing the conversion into societies where there is a basis for launching the futility of the conversion solution, i.e. to launch appropriate proceedings with competent courts in order to determine the integrity of the contracts concluded in the process of conversion and privatisation and confiscation of illegally acquired assets. We also obliged the Croatian Privatisation Fund to initiate appropriate procedures for the return of illegally acquired property benefits by natural and legal persons in the process of conversion and privatisation. We have actually made a whole series of conclusions, but, apparently, almost the usual conclusions of the Croatian Parliament are not respected. So if the conclusions are not respected then it is necessary to adopt amendments and additions to the law, even though we in Croatia can't exactly praise ourselves with the implementation of the law. Whether this law will be accepted is of course dependent on political will, in particular the parliamentary majority. So he's a certain kind of test for us. How ready and determined we are to correct the mistakes made in the early and mid-90s, and whose start of resolution was initiated by the adoption of the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation and the revision carried out. Someone in law had to determine the facts. The law said it was a state audit. And we at the Club of the Croatian Peasants' Party were impatient and the revision process lasted us long. However, the time has now come for the bill to come. This bill is exactly how we view it, and judging by those who are still interested in being responsible, which is primarily those who have lost their jobs, they will be a pleasure to all that they have suffered to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59874	Thank you. The HSLS Club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59875	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is no legislative proposal, no social and political topic more debated in this House, in this assembly, which was broken by the spear less severe or more strongly, which was auctioned in the pre-election campaign, almost all of the subject of privatisation. Croatia was in a technological, industrial, financial overall economic perspective far ahead of all transition countries by the year 90. We watched something about the Slovenians' back, but we still had the breath to breathe on their necks and we were shaking, hoping to reach them. We were technologically well invested, and we were open to the world. Today, unfortunately, all transition countries are at the rate of economic growth or most of them at the rate of industrial production, at the rate of new production investments far ahead of us. The Slovenians with whom we almost ran shoulder to shoulder today are at least a few laps on that imaginary racetrack ahead of us. It'll take us 10 years to reach their standard. So we gambled, and we blew away everything that generations created, and today we have about this condition. The people who took advantage of the position, politically most of all in the conversion, the ones who stole the most and robbed the conversion today are respected businessmen. Our courts and the judiciary are dealing with the wrong parking in front of industrial complexes while these entire industrial complexes were leaving. And we, ladies and gentlemen, want to admit it or not, we entertain the people and we actually give the people false hopes that something will change. Or that there are ways, that there are legal mechanisms that will overwrite this situation and that it will all go back there somewhere in the early '90s. There are no legal instruments and no mechanisms. What we may have been able to use has not yet been used. And we practically to this people this spirit of utopia, which was actually unique to man as an individual, either as a community, are trying to return in some way, to trigger a spirit of hope. However, I think our citizens also know that this is not a great benefit and that all of our discussions are, in fact, all of our administrative legislative optimism is vice versa and actually our power to do something about it as Parliamentarians. All deadlines or most deadlines for 80% recorded anomalies or illegality or misprivitations have actually passed. There are several other legal mechanisms where there may still be some interventions in a few cases. Unfortunately, however, most of it tells you about this in both the interview and the new head of USKOK, most of these legal mechanisms are practically outdated, i.e. completely paralyzed. What's most important is to say that we've seen excellently, detected, determined the condition. However, no one had the strength or the will to deal with the situation. We're like the ones who know reality, but they don't really care about reality much more. And here, regardless of which government we were, whether we were going back in 90 or 2001, no government actually had the strength, had the will to deal with this reality, to know, to detect, to identify, not to determine, and to stand somewhere in some archives, but to act. So knowledge is actually a condition of action, however pragmatic or positive we are, but the knowledge behind which does not follow action and action is actually the knowledge that only burdens us, which only frustrations us. And that's why the people are so frustrated. So, while on the one hand you have today those who used, who robbed as prominent citizens while on the other hand you have a judicial system that deals with wrong parking, so to speak, while the entire factories behind these parking spaces disappear. On the third hand, unfortunately you have 300 and some thousands of unemployed and the fact that Croatia today is at 65% of pre-work industrial production. And that's something that we can no longer change, there's no such way of redistributing justice and justice that today any redistribution, any good, any finance, any social justice, could somehow restore things to the beginning, or re-establish and implement certain principles of justice of equality and justice in this society. So let's not raise false hopes, so let's not convince the citizens of something we can't do. We, as a club, would agree to do so in some way to end it for such crimes, cannot be completely abolished, we all know from the legal system, so there may be some other way to determine which works are abolished, so we would agree, however, the fact that neither this legal mechanism nor its abolition will actually act to deparalyze or re-function all those other paralyzed mechanisms. Most of that documentation no longer exists because you all know that by law the archives, the letters don't keep records or much of the documentation, but unfortunately, and I want to say it quite openly most of that privatisation that we suspect was actually carried out in accordance with some of the laws of that time, in fact, the laws of that time allowed immoral privatisation. At that time the laws were above morale and we have to admit it today and there is no such thing as all the heroes, although all the drills in the chest remember only the campaign of the current president, Mr Mesic, who declared in Varazdin "the jails in Leprechaun will be full when we carry out the audit", nothing happened. Since 2000, the coalition has also yelled and heroised that at the 1st session of the Parliament, it will pass audit laws, that everything will be supervised, but that has not happened and that is one of the reasons why we also remember as a party coming out of the coalition. Now, in this election campaign we're also talking about reviewing, we're actually trying in some way to blur the public's eyes, let's be so open once and let's say to this people that there's no more correcting the injustice that's going to correct both the new injustices and that actually most of the legal mechanisms that we could pull out, which we could actually use today are completely paralyzed. Therefore, we are not against the revision of everything that can be revised, we are in favour of the State's Attorney's Office, that the revision, the State's audit, is using its legal powers, and we don't think that the Government should be given these powers anymore, but I repeat again, I think that our citizens already know, of this great benefit and greater social justice, unfortunately, will be no more. It's not our fault as agents, it's more executive authority that had mechanisms to use.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59876	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59877	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting a number of incorrect allegations from an esteemed colleague of the Czech Republic. According to Mr Mesic, he said he would return to the money, that the prison would be filled, and Mr Chehok said that because he was in a coalition that won the 2000 elections just at the conversion and privatisation, and did not even change the Privatisation Act. Another false assumption to give false hopes. No false hopes are given, but only in the law are we putting legal institutes that are to be applied to the established factual state, and that is, the problem that no one has had the power to sanction a determined factual state. Therefore, there is a possibility that there are legal institutes and can be implemented. We'll spend it. The Czechs sure won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59878	Dear Representative Miroslav Rožic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59879	So, Mr. Chehok, on behalf of his club, spoke for himself and mentioned false hopes and blurring the eyes of the people, but it could be concluded that he was also referring to the promoter and then correcting the incorrect allegations. First of all, it is not true that there is an age of 80%, as he said, but for more than 90% of the criminal, law enforcement, however illegal acquisition of property is still called in this country robbery and although the criminally outdated results of the robbery can and must be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59880	HSU's club. ... Yeah, now just get the club started. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? ... Must be one club, must be Mr. Rozic, must have one club after the correction yes, now it's after the correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who was before you? Who's on behalf of the club? ... And Mr. Chehok was on behalf of the HSLS club? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you'll be on behalf of the proposer then? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59881	Thank you very much. I think my colleague Chehok has left his speech here. I'll give it to the president. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen indeed, I have answered on behalf of the motionary because it seems to me that a little debate is turning in one completely different direction. We are not talking about conversion and privatisation here because there are many things that are truly unquestionable and there has already been spent a tremendous amount of time here in this House to give estimates of conversion and privatisation even though both conversion and privatisation, and later their revision has shown that actually one original accumulation of capital has been carried out in an immoral way, but that is much more important for the rule of law. So, we don't really need to mention here the morality of conversion and privatisation and all the implications that it carries with it such an assessment, but we want to, and therefore we have put forward a proposal for this law to discuss those privatisations, those privatisations that have been carried out against the law, since the law is whatever it is or is. So we can judge him by moral, immoral, effective, inefficient, like this and they've already heard it a thousand times, but it's irrefutable the fact that the revision, the State Review, has found that even with the law you call both immoral and such and 95.18% privatisations have been carried out against such a law as it is. And it's simply an irrefutable fact established by the state audit. And over that I just can't close my eyes and say there's a wolf eating donkeys. There were statutes of limitations, etc. Because it actually means legalizing a robbery in this country. Thus, while some people in this country saw the Homeland War as an opportunity to finally create a Croatian state, others also experienced it very revolutionaryly. They've been given the opportunity to get their hands on the greatest once-in-a-lifetime wealth of the social property, and it's illegal and nothing. This, therefore, led to a clear and many divisions in our society that are now reflected in almost all areas of life, and that is simply a fact. It is evident that the so far state political elites have settled on the side of a minority with a questionable wealth, with questionable goods. And that's not questionable by my assessment or the HSP Club, it's a state audit. Of course, it is all to the detriment of Croatian citizens, having in mind this situation clearly, then it becomes clear to us why more proceedings have been initiated in this country against Croatian defenders than against Croatian tycoons or people who have illegally acquired their property. It's just a fact. And when we talked about the number of criminal charges filed by the State's Attorney's Office we had here very recently a report on the work of the state's attorneys on criminal cases in connection with the conversion and privatisation, it hasn't been two months, we had this report here. And that report really says what his colleague Hebrang says is that a thousand 400 has been filed, and I don't know how many criminal charges. Yes, but according to these thousands and 400 and several criminal charges, only 18, letters and figures of 18 criminal proceedings were initiated by the State's Attorney's office. And that's what the conclusion is. The conclusion is that we actually want to forget what happened but not from the position of morality, not from the position of criminal responsibility, but from the position of an eclectic robbery that we allegedly cannot and in fact do not want to sanction, not criminally, but by taking away illegally acquired goods. Therefore, then, there is indeed one shrub on the stage regarding the conversion and privatisation of the relativisation of all irregularities and attempts to plant the biggest real problem in Croatian society shows the unification of these reports that we had in one point. I will remind you, this was an indication of the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the State Audit Office Report on the implementation of the revision of the conversion and privatisation, the report on the procedures initiated and the actions taken, the data on cash payments for the purchase of shares, the share and issuing of consent for the acquisition of assets, the report on the work of state lawyers on criminal cases in connection with the conversion and privatisation, the Report of the Croatian National Bank on the process of establishing or reshaping banks and shareholders or companies with limited liability carried out under the Law on Banks and other financial organisations, the Report of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabitation of Banks in connection with the State Office’s report on the audit of the implemented revision of conversion and privatisation. All four reports under a, b, c and d. in one item of the agenda and after that was done somewhere around 9 o'clock in the evening without public presence none of that. And as a club, we really don't mean to blur anyone's eyes, we really don't mean to invest anyone's false hopes, but we really want to ask the most sincere question to you and the Croatian public whether the robbery that was committed if there was a statute of criminal responsibility can still be corrected in some way. I'm personally convinced he can. Because, Mr. Chehok, if someone steals a car, knocks on his numbers and drives with him for a few years and discovers his theft after it's out of date for the crime, whether they take his car or leave it to him. Of course they'll take it away from him. And we here now argue that there is no possibility and there is no way that we can do the same thing with what actually led this country to virtually one total desperation and the whole economy. Namely, the findings of the State Audit Office over the past few years clearly and unequivocally show that privatisation was carried out in 95.18% against the law or with illegal actions. And this generally accepted opinion of the injustice of that law can discuss it as much as we want but also about immorality. However, this illegality should be sanctioned. And for the end, let me. It's completely unequivocal, and I don't think anyone can lift a plate to correct an incorrect assumption that if there's a will, then there's a way. And we don't accept as a club an argument there's no way because it actually means nothing but will. The former and current government apparently had no will, strength, desire or knowledge to solve and sanction the waste and conversion and privatisation. Of course, we are convinced that no economic takeoff will occur in this environment that everything will be pushed under the carpet and that incompetence will continue to be covered up for some time by selling and converting the remaining state property. But the question is, how long? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59882	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59883	I'd like to correct the quote of a respected colleague, Rozic. It is true if there is a will there is a way, but the difficulty is with your suggestion that you did not suggest it. So, you're suggesting that based on something called the State Audit Report, someone is taking someone's property away. That's impossible in the rule of law. I repeat once again that I believe there was a robbery, but it has to be corrected in a legal way because if we correct something that is illegal in an illegal way, then we are doing an illegal shop. Therefore, you did not suggest a way that shows that you may not have the will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59884	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59885	Well, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable colleague of the Czech Republic has hurt the Rules of Procedure, and because he has violated Article 209 by correcting the incorrect assumption, and he has not even read the law, and that is why he can speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59886	I don't know if he read it or didn't read it, but when clubs say the only way he can react is by correcting an incorrect quote because there's no replica. Well, how was it more or less so far is such a practice that I don't approve of, but I can stand it then what am I going to do now? Let's move on. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, Mr. Representative Josip Sudec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59887	Ladies and gentlemen, the angry wound is treated with angry grass. Says the people. We pensioners are particularly sensitive to the process of conversion and privatisation. It's our past work. He's largely deceased. We'd like to bring him back to life in a certain way. One or more of these is the proposal proposed by the Croatian Party's Club of Rights. However, he proposes changes and additions. I'm opening up a new possibility. We should or could, if we are willing, we could also pass a new law on privatisation and install into that law other institutes that have not shown themselves most effectively in practice. All the debates we've been having over the state's audit, the state's attorney's office, especially the attorney general, have highlighted our illegalities in conversion and privatisation. We've reached conclusions, suggestions. The rest is on it. Do you need to take a new step? I think we need to take a new step. We will give support to this proposal. We would like to have it in a second reading with more proposals to be discussed in the meantime. We expect effective actions from state institutions because the results so far have not met our expectations by inheriting the situation in privatisation. The people remain convinced that it is a bad privatisation, not an event of the case. It's that there's politics in everything. We say we're powerless. So we are the most important organ in the Republic of Croatia. We are politically responsible. We make legal regulations. Why not pass a law that will make the whole process more transparent and efficient, more efficient. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia has secured the conditions of state authorities and state institutions, then the question is: And why aren't they doing their job? Looks like someone's been keeping it a secret here. Over 1400 we have illegalities, we file 40, only 40 indictments, and only 18 are accepted. Thus, the disproportionateness between what was in practice and what was in the real court proceedings is. It is inconceivable that the state defends its assets weaker than it defends its private. If someone wants to usurp into possession of my private property, then it must be used uninterrupted for 30 years. If that deadline is so long on private terms, why doesn't the state give itself a longer period of time than what was done in the robbery doesn't have a period of limitation. Robbery's a robbery. Something that is disgusting in this society, which is, which our people are creeping out. It would be good if we sanctioned this matter in the way it was proposed or even better quality and took down once that bad taste of bitterness so the people didn't say again: You discussed it in Saobor, we agree with you, but it seems that the cat has fallen apart. You should have that cat, that pussycat. We don't have to go after everything to be the way we don't want it to be. One more remark. What is the Croatian Privatisation Fund doing? The Assembly Committee, which should exercise supervision or the Supervisory Board, held only a constitutive session within two years. Is there no job for us if we say that there are some shops that are on the edge of the law or that are illegal? Let's try to do more on that plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59888	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First Mr. Representative, and that on behalf of the club. In the name of the club is Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go. SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59889	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS Club will support this amendment proposal, i.e. to supplement the Law on the Auditing and Conversion of Privatisation by the Croatian Party of Rights. We must also say that we regret that this dimension did not come from a party that should at least have greater social sensitivity than the Croatian party of rights. This is not just a matter of the rule of law. Not just a question of legality. This is primarily a social and development issue. Is it possible to build a socially sensitive state based on this kind of transformation and privatisation? Is it possible, on the basis of this kind of transformation and privatisation, to have owners who will respect the minimum elements of social sensitivity? And in that sense, what is the obligation of the state to respect at least essential things such as taxes, such as salaries, such as work experience, such as regulated employee status, etc. Because the one who took it the way he took it is absolutely certain that he will have no social sensitivity to those who possibly remained working for him. In this sense, it is not only a question of legality or illegality. It is indeed a question of whether we in the state can have a fundamental mentality of social justice and social rights. Another thing I would like to say is whether in this way the conversion and privatisation carried out in which there was no criterion of whether anyone really has some kind of development programme, whether someone really has the necessary and necessary means to either relive or continue to develop production or services or anything else that is by means of a company that is either in the process of transforming and privatising the glass or acquired, whether it can really put it into the necessary development programs, or it can simply turn it into a means to further earn and earn money from which neither the unit of local self-government and county, nor the state, and neither employees nor the state as a whole will have any benefit. And since both of these issues are more like wet swords over our heads here and the state, then the data raises the question of what was raised here about justice once more to see where the real limits are and where the actual patterns in terms of what is blocking any developmental dimension were the social dimension within this society. And for this reason, for these two reasons, the SDSS club will support, support this debate and support this debate being held in another reading. In fact, it's quite certain that neither what we're putting ahead of ourselves at this point, which is the rule of law, the legality, will be able to be secured just by... We're drawing a line, so from today on, we're going to have a legal state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what we had until yesterday, how it was. So sadly, even if we really wanted to and if we really had such strength, it is not possible to do so. It is not possible to do simply because actors, mentality and behavior of those who have acquired in an illegal way will not be able to change. Nor can it change. And that's why it's important, because of what's still coming to us. And in many areas, in many segments, and I will now talk about areas of special state concern. We still have such, though, poor state property which the state still cares about, whose owner is, but which is still in one way or another or in the hands or in the disposition of people who cannot and will not do anything with it, to raise a loan from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the development of the livestock fund and livestock production, for example. in Goričevac, in the municipality of Donji Lapac, and the money instead of ending in the area of special state care ends in Međimurje. And the project that was to be developed there, instead of going in the direction of livestock, is developing in a limited, not limited symbolic way just to see that some money was spent on poultry, which, after two weeks, also ceases and has nothing. And the state invests money, secures money, first through credit, after the interest. Finally, through the release from certain grants, given that it is an area of special state concern, a mountainous and mountainous area, an area that is borderline. And in the end, the money goes somewhere else. Is there a state in such cases to investigate the legality of such actions? Not that there is, but it has to. Now I'm gonna say why he has to. If in such segments the state is not credible, if in such segments the state is not a state, then how can we expect ordinary people to have a strong, credible relationship with their country? Well, we can't. We can't. Therefore, if we really want to strengthen trust in the relationship between citizens and the state, state institutions and citizens, then the state in these segments must act as one that protects the general interest, which protects the legality and protects what is particularly true here, someone has highlighted some of the fundamental values of people. People really think that the state took someone's property for temporary disposal so that it could be given to thieves and shared with people who would be able to do so without any criteria. And in that sense, the thing really shouldn't end the way it looks like it's gonna end. So it wouldn't look like at the time of socialism in the Soviet Union in the first decade we had a hero of the socialist work of Stahonov and that we had a period of standing in which, which he was a role model of socialist work and collected hundreds of medals for the fastest brick building in the process of raising factories or houses or settlements. And on the other hand, we have a kind of corner, and that means we have a man who's destined to be this kind of faggot that needs to be hanged and who's going to see that the matter of privatisation and conversion is actually solved. The state worked, sanctioned those she was supposed to sanction, and that's all. And we know it's not like that. And we know that such symbolic gestures simply do not seduce the rule of law mechanism, nor create social sensitivity, nor create conditions for what we call development potential and development opportunities. In this sense it is quite clear that those who have managed to create, those who have managed to develop, those who have succeeded on the basis and this kind of privatization to create something for the general benefit that such people of course can be subject to different investigations, given the legality of the current actions. But it's absolutely certain that no one goes and requires and I didn't realize it from this request that goes from the HSP club to some kind of new jacubinism. No, I don't. It is simply strengthening the mechanisms of sensitivity to legal work, legal treatment, not that mentality is transferred from conversion and privatisation to governance, that it is transformed into management and that it is transformed into a way of treating workers and the state, so that it is not given to the state, that it is not given to workers either. Because the way it's acquired, it's how it's supposed to be done. That's what needs to be done. That, I don't know where my colleague Chehok is, but that's not something that's gone through. It's still alive and it's still there. And for that reason, this request makes sense. Not because we can pour milk like one of the ministers in some former government said, we can't collect it and put it back in a broken glass or a broken jug, but it's quite certain that we can do anything to keep the jugs from breaking and that people don't feel like we have boasts and rich on one side, and on the other side the whole nation that is actually poor and that's our obligation. Thank you. I say once again, the SDSS Club will support this proposal, especially to go in the direction of second reading to really do everything, that they find and the State's audits and they find the State's Attorney's Office can get the support of this Assembly and can be encouraged both in terms of legality, and as far as I'm concerned, even more social sensitivity and developmental sensitivity which this Assembly also needs to take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59890	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, after the clubs have made their views known, the proposing representative, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic, will address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59891	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's after the presentation of the club representatives, everyone except the SDP club I don't know why they're silent, I'd like to hear their point of view. That's why I'm saying it because if we all remember the election campaign for the 2000 parliamentary elections where Chehok was in the coalition, then it was a message next, we'll fill the prisons, all the money that came out of Croatia, and they mentioned that it was 8-9 billion kuna, maybe it was dollars, we'll go back. Unfortunately, the government, like this one, did not even have the strength to change the Revision Act, not on revision, but on conversion and privatisation. The truth of the will has been passed, the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. That law that we're discussing right now, about his supplement, at least something that's true. State audit in these 1556 surveillance cases has been allowed to establish whether something is legally or illegally privatised and it has been found that out of 1556 cases, it is illegal, or it is illegal to convert, or privatise, in 1481 cases and only 75 has been legally implemented. Because there's a lack of that law? The lack of this law is what is proposed here, to establish the actual state of application of the sanctions. That's what this law is all about. If we've already established something, and we've established it, then let's apply the sanctions to such a determined fact. It's not about nationalisation, nationalizing means taking away from the owner, confiscating all other institutes. It's just that something illegal has been obtained, that something guaranteed can never become legal and means to whoever has it in possession, and it's not a good owner, paid anything, the state takes back its part, and nothing happens there except that these 1% that he has provided, which while Croatian defenders defended the Croatian state, they robbed the Croatian state and only introduces that order, so there is no more, they are now acting mecenary, they have elitism, this-that, they are now calling on all things, further dissuasive workers, they say what they will do to workers half an hour of rest, let them do. Why don't you give the workers a contract indefinitely, give it to them every four or five months? Why don't the workers work on Sundays, let them work, we won't pay for them. So here's what this is, they're morale promoters in Croatia, and we're just looking for what's already right, there's an institute of nothingness, and we're introducing a new institution of ownership. If you've paid these 75 ok. These others, if you paid a million kunas, and you needed 20 million kunas, so you didn't own it, but that part you paid is your property. So this is, be careful it's time to admit it, the SDP club has given one of its proposals in terms of sanctioning all of this, but it's important the difference between ours and their proposal. You know why it's important, they go to the Institute of Riches without a legal basis, that means they confess property and then you pay the fine. We're not going, we're not admitting property. Well, we can't confess to someone's property if they didn't pay for it, if they took it. So, it means you wouldn't talk any further, the thing is that it's clear. Croatian people are asking us to have this assembly of parliament say, we have the will, we will, we will force everything in the government and in the judiciary and in the State's Attorney's office, all structures to finally start applying the law. So we'll force it. We'll force them, we're the ones who have the right to do it, if it's a parliamentary system then let's start from us and let's not gawk and keep our eyes closed on this all that's happening to us. So I'm glad it means that all clubs are except for the HDZ club that's up to it, but it thinks there are enough conclusions. Not enough, unfortunately it would be good to have enough conclusions and the Czecho, but he's the case for himself so he wouldn't even comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59892	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word is Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At first I'll say it loud and clear that there would be no doubt about it. I strongly support this legislative proposal that points to the parliamentary procedure of my fellow rights. It also delights me to see that he has no opponents in this House, only the government and Mr. Chehok oppose. There is no topic in Croatia that fosters greater public interest than the topic of conversion and privatisation. For what? Because everyone knows, what absolutely does not have to prove to anyone that this conversion and privatisation was the original robbery in Croatia. No, she was designed, planned, prepared and implemented. From the moment President Tudjman said our program, the state programme of 200 wealthy families began to prepare. The laws have been amended, the laws have been passed, the deadlines have been reduced, everything has been prepared for this robbery, that it can never be sanctioned again, and it has been carried out so. I fully agree with the assessment of the situation that the proposings here present in the bill. Conversion and privatisation is not from any of the most important points of view, moral, legal, political, economic and social achieved the expected positive impact on quantitative and qualitative overall economic development. On the contrary, a completely negative impact has been achieved, ranging from robbery and robbery to loss of more than 400 thousand jobs and poor workers, peasants and 99% of Croatian citizens. What the promoters wrote here in their assessment of the situation is what everyone in Croatia thinks about conversion and privatisation. About that, if there's a consensus about anything else. Of course, from that consensus, as we can see from the government, the HDZ is dropping, and it's not the first time. It's not the first time. After 2000 HDZ told the then government of Ivica Racan, come on, give that list of the 200 wealthy families. Of course, they put in front of the government a request that was not so simple to meet. Because 200 wealthy families, it's a symbolic invitation for President Tudjman to look like privatisation and conversion and how it must end. Now what? There were pre-election promises. They were. The SDP made a pre-election promise before 2000, we will review the conversion and privatisation and the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation and Revision of Conversion and Privatisation has been passed and the final report of the auditors we received in this term of Parliament. Last one. And now, Mr. Kovacevic, who rightly acknowledges to the government what she's done. There is no proposal for a law without reviewing conversion and privatisation because such a bill would be pointless. Who would he refer to? Well, first of all, it has to be determined where in which cases it was illegally done so that we could go to sanctions on it. This revision of conversion and privatisation, it was worth it by Šima Krasic and her team, worked long. Because she worked thoroughly and in quality, and only after the last report we received in this mandate can one step further. Before that, it would be politics. Let's punish someone without knowing who or why? After reviewing conversion and privatisation, you know who and why. There's more than one way. The SDP sought to sanction it in Prime Minister Racan's term of office with a special one-time tax on the converted property. If that's a good way, it's not a good way, it's certainly a try to take their money that doesn't belong to them. When they've already gone into obsolescence, when they can't be prosecuted, let's take their money. The SDP proposal was not accepted by all coalition partners then. And that is why the measure did not receive parliamentary majority support. The HSP is now offering a different proposal, and abolishing the limitation period and confiscation. I agree. I only note that this proposal, and I repeat, could not be given, could not be given to the SDP or anyone else because it would be complete nonsense before the process of reviewing conversion and privatisation. The chance of the government accepting this is certainly nothing. We see that in the government's opinion. I'm sorry, before that, the SDP had sent then and here a debate and a vote was held, amendments to the Penal Code. Under these amendments to the Penal Code, they would allow punishment between other and converted crime. The Penal Code didn't get the necessary majority. Why? HDZ was against and filed a constitutional suit for constitutional-formal reasons to bring down the law. Well, clearly, the HDZ has since the beginning claimed that the robbery in privatisation was not, that the president's 200-family sentence was not a plan, that no one had stolen anything and that it was all the fabrication of the SDP. And when it was intended to punish it normally that they voted against such amendments to the Penal Code and, of course, that such HDZ also filed a constitutional suit and brought down the Penal Code. And it's normal that he never put his version of the Penal Code into practice that would punish him. And it's normal that today is against the HSP proposal. And it's normal for this government, let's not expect it to make its own variant of this bill. What does the government say? The government washes its hands and says there is no need for such a law because there is already an optimal legal structure under which the revision of conversion and privatisation is carried out, which is the applicable Law on the revision of conversion and privatisation. Well, that's not the point. Well, normally, this process of reviewing conversion and privatisation is over. The auditor said so, but that law if we don't change it doesn't allow what everyone wants. To take away the robbers' money. And such an explanation is pardoned, but shameless. Because it doesn't mean anything, it doesn't offer a solution. And the solution offered by HSP is not accepted. What are we deciding here today? What are we talking about? We're talking about whether or not we're going to accept Royce's sentence "who's yaming, yamio". Are we gonna accept it or not? Well, I don't think we have the right to do that. That sentence is accepted and said, and my God, what can you do? What? Steal, steal, what we can do. No, we simply as elected representatives of the citizens of this country have no rights. And that's why I support this bill. I hope that when we vote on him on Friday that we will all be in the assembly because as he announced the HSS and as he announced the HSP which normally support the government's opinions, this time they are going to the contrary, excuse me and the SDSS as he announced, this legislative proposal could get the required majority, so let's let it go to another reading, is that all the no-technically well solved or not, it doesn't matter, it will be corrected until the second reading, but if this law gets the necessary majority in this House beyond the will of the HDZ, it will be a strong support of this Parliament to finally resolve this issue, to take away the robbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59894	Thank you. We have five replicas and four corrections. Let's go to the replicas first. The first one was Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59895	Mr. President. You were talking about the problem of robbery, and it's true that our society needs to go through a certain moral renovation, that this is a moral and ethical issue as a prerequisite for all of us together to move on, but what I wanted to say in relation to what you were saying here is actually about war profiting. No doubt, because it happened during the war, there is no doubt that war profit is a crime against its people, against the citizens of our country, and there is no doubt that it is one of the greatest crimes during the war. So we are in Croatia, people in Croatia were victims of double aggression, victims of armed aggression and victims of robbery aggression. If a war crime doesn't get old, and it doesn't get old, and it can't get old, then I'm convinced that there can't even be a robbery during a war called war profiteering, either, and no matter what fineses, nomotechnical mistakes or mistakes, I absolutely support this HSP proposal, and I'm one of those who thinks if we act morally here, and that's just to vote according to what we've been saying, this law will pass, so we'll all be on the test on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59896	Answer, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59897	Comrade Jurjevic, war profit is illegal, and this, this robbery was legal. That's what all cynicism is about. The transformation took place at the time of the war when public attention was focused on the defence of the country and while others were sending themselves to war for privatisation. Then they came up with a plan, then they passed the laws, and then they started implementing them. At that time, during the war, the public could not be sensitized on this subject, it was killed, the country was defended, in this greatest cynicism of what happened in Croatia, while calling for love of the country, for defense of that country, the country was at the same time eyelessly robbed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59898	Replica, Mr. Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So we, as Parliamentarians, were elected by the citizens of this country, and when we swore we would stick to the Constitution, the law, and unlike fellow Stazic, who spoke very classically about all aspects of the adoption of this Law, I am not an optimist. I remember when there was a debate on both the SDP law and the Penal Code when there was the possibility of financial penalties, those who robbed Croatia, everything was often verbal. It seems to me to my colleague Stazić that even this time a good part of those who perhaps because of the media, because of the assembly session and the transfer provide verbal support for the adoption of this Law, when they should give real support by raising their hands or by pressing these keys for the positive adoption of the law that they would forget what they were saying during this session, which they possibly said on behalf of their clubs, which they possibly said in an individual debate. Therefore, most often, as the public expects us to pass this Law, polls say that most citizens believe that conversion and privatisation was a major robbery, but the opposite proportional opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have verbal support for this House when on Friday or some other time there is a declaration of this Law, I fear they will remain on that verbal support and will be who the mosque is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59900	Answer, MP Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59901	So I hope, however, that, in this case, the citizens will have one other ally, the media that will convey the work of this Parliament on Friday, and, individually, for each MP, write whether he supported this legislative proposal or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59902	Replica, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Stazic, read or persuaded a sentence in the government's opinion on why he did not accept this proposal from the HSP club. There is another one that has made me more disgusted by Article 1 of the proposed Law to declare itself invalid any illegal conversion and privatisation, the Government has written that this should not be regulated by new law by referring to the Law on General and Administrative Procedure of Articles 267 to 269. On 15 December last year, in this assembly, the Parliament reached its conclusion, and I ask you to quote it: "The State Attorney's Office and the Croatian Privatisation Fund are committed to initiate the process of repealing the conversion, privatisation... blah, blah, blah, blah, and "the confiscation of illegally acquired property acquired in such proceedings". On whose proposal did the Parliament adopt this second conclusion? It was a proposal from the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club. The HDZ Club offered the Assembly these conclusions, and on 16 December, the parliamentary conclusions were forwarded by the President of the Parliament to the Privatisation Fund, the State Attorney's Office, the Croatian National Bank, the State Agency for Savings Insurance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government would be more credible if, in an explanation of the refusal of the HSP proposal, it wrote that the property cannot be returned to the property of the Republic of Croatia because it ended up in a Cayman, snake, Hawaiian, crocodile and monkey islands, then it would be more credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59904	Replica Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59905	Thank you very much. In your claim that this may have been in line with the law and you are immorally forgetting one fact that was called a purchase contract because every tycoon that bought the shares made a contract with the fund and in that contract is an integral part of the offer either way, workers should not be fired, so that the development programme must be fulfilled, means to further employ and invest something in the company. It was as if it were not to be paid out of the company's profits, it was that management loans could not be used and mortgaged on property, etc. Those contracts didn't break up a single one. We don't see it anywhere, and we don't see it in the opinion of the review, and it's all happening. So, the contract break-up institute can be used today. It happened equally in the pension fund because we were changing valuable shares for the worthless, of course, to the damage of the fund and to the benefit of the tycoon. Only small shareholders and pensioners died. Interestingly enough, small shareholders paid a full price. To them, the fund you see broke the purchase contract because they were late to pay and the tycoons who had neither paid nor fired workers even though they were not allowed to comply with the contract were still in force today. It's about 600 thousand small shareholders who gave up the contract. And now it's interesting and the question of how we're going to regulate it. Did these people who obviously didn't pay for their guilt by believing it was a good thing if we were to pay back the money to the pension fund, which is based on the same contracts that are still worth it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59906	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59907	A colleague, Stazic, repeatedly mentioned the late President Tudjman's statement on 200 families that should be the owner of most of Croatia. He was unrealistic, exaggerating in his judgments. If you see, the last "National" has 50 such people, of which about 20 were created by 2000 and 30 after 2000, so there are no major ideological and political differences in money. They're well-recognized, and I'm going to talk about it in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59908	Thank you very much. Correction Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59909	Mr. Vice President, Stazic is once again showing extreme impatience and disrespect to the first Croatian president, which is inadmissible in this House because I don't think anyone, and especially the Americans, would be able to tolerate someone who would constantly and persistently speak as you do about Tudjman about their Washington for example. Then they'd say this is the first insult to everything you've said. And I would correct the incorrect assumption that he was on the trail of his colleague Letica's replica when he said that Tudjman had devised the robbery. Inaccurate, completely incorrect fellow Stazic. Tudjman created Croatia in a hard and bloody war, and if there was an organized robbery as you say, then it must have been done and I object primarily to it from former communist corporate directors regardless of which card in the pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59910	Correction, Mr. Ivo Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59911	I must say immediately that I am against every robbery and I will say that I will vote for this law. But my colleague Stazic, as usual speaking about these 200 families, said something about this by fellow Letica, is exaggerating. But we see that all these people were communists. Look at these fifty. They were all communists you're inheriting today and the first robbery was made when you came back from the woods, and the second big robbery was made during Ante Markovic where they were communists again because no one could be director but communists.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59912	Comrade Lonchar, don't mention the forest in the context of the current Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59913	Well, Mr. Vice President, you don't know history. Who in 45 came back from the woods and took democracy on the knife. Please count this on me in time, because don't, I'm talking about communists. So, I am against every robbery, I will vote for this law but when we look at who robbed Croatia, Croatia has been robbed by communists because they do not know but in a blur. They went to other parties, they used the laws of Markovic and these communists and they got their hands on the authorities. Today, we in Croatia de facto and de jure have the owners of Croatia's most rigid communist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59914	I didn't interrupt you because of what you're saying, but I interrupted you because you shouldn't be offended and you came from behind. ... None of these guys have come since. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's number one. Number two, I think those who are, that's my explanation as chairman that those who have exploited the conversion and privatisation have a name and a last name and is a side mark of the party they belong to. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Branimir Pasecky has come forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59915	Mr. President, you have now warned here, but I must say, it is called. So who's Mr. Stazic calling? Well, that's the constant experience he's using here. I would have corrected an incorrect quote. It is not true that this bill or these changes could not have been carried out within four years as long as they were in power because the whole time before that they said it was their first task and four years is a long time to do so. And the next thing you know, the collapse wasn't in HDZ, but remember what happened before 90. It was already a disaster when we were in the gas lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59916	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59917	Mr. Vice President, Honorable Representative Stazic cited the following in his debate. Past Government i.e. The government of Mr. Racan could not make a list of 200 wealthy families in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, that's not the right quote. The truth is that the government did not want to make that list because companies were privatised mainly by the then directors and the majority were members of the former Communist Party and the good part now is members of our SDP party. Of course, it's their right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59918	Gentlemen, this debate has caused a 9th correction to what, a 9th correcting that replica. I ask you that, here the first, individual debate is Mr. Stazic and we still have 14 individual debates with the proposal likely to appear in the meantime We can do this every once in a while, when we're gone, it's over, there's no topic, so then we can always be whether, but let's not repeat ourselves, let's not waste time repeating. [[The intruders don't understand.]] If anything is said, it's recorded. There's no need for nine replicas to appear to me to correct incorrect allegations. To God's replicas, because the replicas, the replicas here in the Rules of Procedure, say that it appears for a replica to refer to the quote of the predecessor. And here were the replicas in which they didn't look at the quote at all, but they were saying what they were going to say. But as I think it is, I'm just asking to avoid it. Otherwise I won't interrupt anyone. Let each one speak according to those two minutes or one minute as far as he's right. Let's move on. It's Jura Bitunac's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, respected promoters. Unlike the predecessors who spoke before me, I will say that the Croatian public, Croatian citizens do not pay great attention to today's debate because I think that Croatian citizens and the Croatian society as a whole are full of debates in the Croatian Parliament and even in the press, it would not be so much more in the press when it comes to conversion and privatisation. I'm going to be free to say that this is a simple political pamphlet, and in a sense that goes to advocate justice. Justice as an ideal is nice to talk about. I'm the first to do it. And personally, I don't have shares or any of my close relatives. So I can talk about this problem without complexes and without delays. The Law of Conversion and Privatisation itself, we know that a thousand nine hundred has been passed, I think, ninety-nine, correct me, ninety-two years. And there have been some analyses that he himself is the one who generates crime and so on and we see that this law has survived to this day. I think it was one neutral law, and the other is when, where and what individuals participated in the wicked acts? To talk about 400,000 jobs that were shut down during the conversion and privatisation of the 1990s, in the 1990s, I think it is absurd if we start from the fact that the Croatian, Croatian economy, Croatian economy was directed towards the Eastern European market or the socialist lager market, and simply in one open competition, there was no chance that many of our companies were more or less viable. We also need to know that in addition to the privatisation that was implemented under the law that I mentioned, we also have privatisation through bankruptcy. Is the basis of this HSP proposal going to question bankruptcy and bankruptcy itself because there is probably something wrong there too? On the other hand, I would like to stress that we are all sharing one incorrect information, an incorrect message to the Croatian public, and this is about companies that have been audited. Since 1556, it is said that 75 companies have made the conversion without any objections. However, the irregularities themselves, I repeat the irregularities themselves, do not have to mean automatic criminal liability or something for which the conversion into certain companies should be annulled. There was also a time in the former coalition government to change the existing law and the Law on Conversion and Privatisation. From January 3rd to the end of the term of office, he did not remain the same. The Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation has been passed. We know the results. I believe that there are legal mechanisms to examine all irregularities, and on the other hand I have to point out that I am not a law firm, that what my colleagues in HSP have proposed to create, I apologize for the expression, the constant legal confusion and that there is, in some way, interference and incurring in legislative, judicial and executive power. De facto the government was in... The position that he's also a prosecutor, but also a judge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore this approach to this problem in this way has some in my opinion a communicative dimension and I think that, yes, it is, bringing it today, today to discuss it that it is also deplaced, and I can say that Croatian citizens are facing the future. Waiting for them to be better based on the Croatian Government programme. Based on the laws that we need to pass, and personally I am for all legal sanctions, for legal procedure and respect for the rule of law when it comes to sanctioning any crime. In that direction, I personally, and I hope most parliamentary deputies can't support a proposal like this because I think he has another dimension. It's a struggle for some ideals, justice through a law that is, in addition to a law that is populist and de facto does not have some legal and material basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59920	Replica, Mr. Tonchi Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59921	Your Honor, Mr. Bitumen, I am truly amazed by the thesis that this bill of ours is a simple pamphlet. Then, according to this, the pamphlet and the proposal for a conclusion submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, which is precisely what it is called for, therefore, to initiate judicial proceedings, administratively for infringements of unlawful property benefits. I do not believe that this proposal is a conclusion by HDZ and it was signed by the Honorary Vice President of the House, Mr Luka Bebic, that he was given to Parliament as a pamphlet rather than that it was clearly the political will of the HDZ and the desire to get rid of it. So please don't make our attempts by law to solve what the conclusions aren't realized because the government didn't have the sense to call pamphlets. We're simply doing what the government didn't do, and we've committed it to the conclusions in this House of Commons. That's what this is about. If an illegal acquisition of ownership occurred in 1461, then we are talking about the need to return the illegally acquired property to the Croatian state. That's all it's about. Please be careful what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59922	Answer me, Mr. Bitumen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59923	My colleague Tadic, so I try to watch what I say in the Croatian Parliament, not only in the Croatian Parliament but also in the same way. I believe that what is the Government's opinion and proposal of the HDZ Club was that it goes within the framework of existing legislation and existing legislation that regulates this area and that, in that sense, and in the spirit of the legal frameworks set, this issue can be resolved. And did I now in some way offend you by the name, using this term, I think it's... It wasn't my thing, it wasn't my intention at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in any case, I do not think that we should go to the Croatian public with proposals that are populistly intonated, and do not produce any result. That's my opinion. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59924	Replica, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59925	Thank you very much. A fellow Bitunjac called the bill a political pamphlet. But why, three months ago, have we concluded that we are obliged by the Government, the State Attorney's Office and the Privatisation Fund to initiate criminal, criminal proceedings, civil and property sanctioning illegality and irregularities in the return of illegally acquired property during the conversion and privatisation of damage claims during the conversion and privatisation and in order to protect the property and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? I remind you in the House, we voted this out on a proposal from the HDZ Club. And fellow Tadic, did not sign this bill by Mr. Bebic, Mrs. U.Z. Maria Byte, let's be correct. ... The HDZ Club's proposal is signed by Mrs. Maria Byte, not the esteemed vice president. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59926	Answer me, Mr. Bitumen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59927	Well, I think that a colleague of Tadic here and the Parliament and the Croatian public enjoys the reputation and competence of the parliamentary representative and I don't think this intervention of yours is welcome for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59928	Replica, Mr. Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Bitunjac says that these companies didn't actually work, which went into conversion and privatisation, because they mainly dealt with those former republics that were part of Yugoslavia. However, the government that was then, the HDZ government estimated that property on 24 billion marks. If it's no property and it's a company that was insignificant, then how are we even today, what are we even talking about today? What do the citizens, what makes the citizens think it was a robbery? Just to remind you, the bank's recovery and bank conversion where we've invested 15 billion in rehab we've sold them for 4 to 5 billion. That's just high treason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59930	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59931	He's a colleague of Kapraljevic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59932	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59933	Best not to say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59934	I didn't give my word. Mr. Kapraljevic, avoid such dramatic words as "supervisory", because then it can, you know, cause who knows what kind of high treason, whose high treason, is mostly a big word it doesn't need in this. I'm asking you to... Now, here's your answer to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59935	Well, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, it's hard to replicate at all this type of qualifications. And speaking of banks, the recovery of banks, you've had a lot of experience, starting with Rijeka and some other banks. And take a look at your ranks. Well, that'll be all on my side.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59936	Let's move on to the debate. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59937	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I think this little bill will still enter some humble internal parliamentary history, at least, or useful history, because there is an SDSS and HSP finally in one programming same position. This shows that when it comes to privatisation, it would be good for HDZ to take one small step and leave this law to another reading. It is my fault that there are no more visible people from the 2000/2003 ruling coalition. The years before those elections indeed created a myth about the kidnapped and buried treasure made statements. For example, Mr. Slavko Linic was repeatedly quoted in the Financial Times and the New York Times about how the new coalition government will find this kidnapped treasure. They mentioned up to 2 billion dollars at that time. There was even a thought about hiring hunters to kidnap the treasure. However, there was no political will in the area. This law has several essential purposes. One is a preventive nature. We are in sight, or at the beginning of the process of creating a defence fund that will have a nominal value of around 2 billion euros at the end of the season. And as we think about the past, predators are already thinking about the future. How to get that fund in private pockets not for 2 billion euros, but perhaps for 400m euros. Therefore, this debate also has a pedagogical purpose. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, it is indeed imperfect when it is said that the government should initiate a procedure to declare non-essential all contracts or privatisation and conversion processes that are illegal. This notion of illegality is indeed too wide, but colleagues from HSP will certainly accept any good initiative based on the United Nations Resolution of '66. a year declaring crimes of damage to people's and social property under war conditions, practically identical war crimes that don't get old. And in that sense, they should be a little more selective compared to the very definition of the concept of illegality. When it comes to privatisation technology itself in an illegal way, or in a way that is contrary to what counterpart Pejo Trčević called "elementary religious feelings of citizens". I have here a book by Gordan Family "Croatian Advertiser" which lists five basic mechanisms in the section on conversion and privatisation, if you want to use the term robbery even though it is always connected with weapons and some socks over your face. He mentions five basic mechanisms. The first mechanism was management loans, other mechanisms were bankruptcy procedures, which I will return to because it was the basic mechanism of redistributing during the coalition government's time, then turning into deposit claims, old foreign exchange savings and the most popular method of privatisation without kuna funds. That's very handsome. As for the very technology of kidnapping and bribery of kidnapped and buried goods, it is known, it is one of the leading theorists of transition robberies, called Helman, in a large analysis of the crimes of the state's capture that predators become very quickly the main fighters for the rule of law and this is happening in Croatia. So what's convenient about this bill is that ing. He came to this High House, a colleague of Peronja, came to this High House at the time of the outbreak of the affair about Nenad Šepić and I think that the abstinence of a fellow SDP is related to something I would call the case Šepic or perhaps even the case of whispering privatisation in the period 2000 to today. Resuscitated at that time of bankruptcy or bankruptcy ideology as the ideology of salvation and the healing of the Croatian economy, however, if you read several statements carefully, I called my colleague Šepić yesterday and asked him to send me this basic document, regardless of how politically he looks at the case, what anyone will say about someone else's dirty or clean laundry, here to read an interesting mechanism of sprawl between state authorities, justice, law enforcement, money laundering and a specific part of bankruptcy philosophy. Therefore, I would advise you to read the Shepic case model or whispering privatisation very carefully several times to lose a sense of more value when it comes to the right or left of this House, to show that there is no big difference. I have often said that in Croatia I should incriminate the criminal act of imprisoning the state on several examples I will show that my colleague Damir Cain is right when he says that those people whom I have called are public euros, so they are people who are nationally still or for some time Croatians, but according to their own mental interest, in their own way of thinking and deciding are foreigners because they are in the function of foreign capital, they are headed by these large companies. They ruled among other things and media space. I started writing some small columns in one daily list and everything went nicely until I wrote a column about the eastern sin of robbery in Croatia. This Eastern sin refers to the construction of a nursing home in Dubrovnik, which I spoke of in this High House. This text was as immeasurable and unpretentious as my texts in this old age, means that they are easily read, easily understood, and can be understood by even the readers of the "Evening List" and those who follow from Croatian television the work of this House of Commons. But the one to whom the article refers, he bought that silence, and I stopped writing those little columns as a protest. I would therefore ask my colleagues, because I expect that they will have great resistance both on this side and on this side to adopt, to still see a subtitle in the book of fellow Friends who says this: Banks as the main instrument of robbery and devastation of the Croatian economy are precisely talking about the case of Šepic or the case of whispering democracy, and I would ask colleagues from HDZ to drink coffee perhaps with our prime minister and leave it to another reading of this modified text of the HSP proposal, because if we can join Damir Kain, Milorad Pupovac, Nenad Stazic and great people in the heart about not having a disheartened view of it and that we must always have in the head of the Aborigins who have waited 250 years for us to believe that something can be done that these robbers do not become the main fighters for the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59938	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59939	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, here I am thanking the esteemed colleague of the Flight for supporting this bill of ours. All I have to do is repeat it for the public. Namely, the proposal for the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was sent back in September of last year, now it has come to the agenda of today's plenary session. I must also say that the Government gave its opinion on our draft law on 24 November 2005, so before the conclusions were reached in the Croatian Parliament, Mr Letica, the issue of banks, was well noted. We've been told by the IMF or the World Bank, you can't manage banks, and we've given banks to foreigners, we haven't privatised because 15 billion are invested in recoverys, and now there's this variant that banks, somewhere 70 billion and slightly more Croatian citizens are in debt to banks, but Croatian citizens have far more savings than they have elsewhere, somewhere 80, 90 billion kuna and now these banks are turning Croatian citizens' money, giving loans to Croatian citizens than money that is again Croatian citizens, and they're making a fine living and they're still out there. Now that's the problem, and many banks have started privatising according to the Markovic law model, I think that's how the Zagreb Bank went to other banks. So we're here asking the banks to put everything in perspective, and we know for ourselves how much resistance there is in the state and from the National Bank and everyone else, to finally find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59940	Thank you. Mr. Letica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59941	I will use the replica to support another element of this bill, which is a certificate of ownership and to quote what is the verdict of my fellow Family at the total cost of the recovery of the Croatian banks. She is, his estimate is $13 billion. $13 billion is the cost of resuscitating Croatian banks, and other revenues from privatising all banks are less than $700m. So we lost $10 billion in the privatisation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59942	Replica, Mr. Krunosalv Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59943	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd agree with my colleague if the banks had their fingers in privatization, but it's not just our model. It's a singing Russian model where money was actually drawn from banks through mortgage loans and the like. As far as privatisation is concerned, it's hard to say whether it's impartial or versatile. I think it's both interpretations to be good. And what was all about privatization can be set by one example, for the gentleman also used the example of one of our businessmen. Surely few of us or almost no one knows that at the time of privatisation, one joint firm is formed by 3 companies. The owners were Marcinko, one was Marcinko, the other was Kutle and the third was Radimir Cacic. The company was called I mean TCA or ATC, something like this, and it served to buy shares from the coupon privatisation. A number of students have been hired, some of whom are happy to testify to me if necessary. If it had been, they'd been going around all those who are, all the poor ones who actually got paid for this or that stock. They'd go around with cash and collect shares. Clearly, Marchenko and Kutle both went to prison for not having party support. I don't have to talk anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59944	Answer, Mr. Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59945	I'd just like to say, it's called social sciences, the testimony of the survivors, since it often attacks the late President Tudjman. Among other things, he and I ordered a privatisation model from Norman Bailey who went to voucher privatisation. So, even liberalally, the democratic basic idea was privatisation in Croatia, and later the instrumentsizations and the impolitely dead people are accused when they cannot defend themselves, especially on... the way of people who took one 10, 15, 50 times as much and belong to the parties about which time will only tell us something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59946	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I will also point out that, in my opinion, they really cannot accept the proposed concrete legal solutions that essentially come down to two things. So the first thing is to declare the contract void and the second thing is to verify ownership. Through the Government of the Republic of Croatia's obligation to launch a defined process of ownership certification in each individual case of conversion and privatisation. And further in my presentation, I will concentrate only on the legal solutions offered. So, all of this or what is proposed, which we have before us, according to the motionors, should be seen as a systematic take-up of activities to effectively sanction all illegal cases of conversion and privatisation. In fact, not only would those legal solutions not only win the very purpose for which they are proposed but they are in direct cohesion and cannot fit into the system. Under a), the rule of law. And both material and procedural nature. Under b), the provisions of mandatory law governing contractual relations and possibilities and the way in which legal transactions are annulled. And under c) the whole concept falls back in relation to the provisions of real law relating to the way in which ownership rights are acquired, as well as the land-marking rights that regulate the way in which property rights are recorded. In fact, the declaration of a solution to a void which has certainly been adopted in the administrative procedure has indeed been detailed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, Articles 268, and 269. And that solution can, I repeat, at any time, be declared void at any time. Any official duty, so... on a proposal from the party or on a proposal from the State's attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following these, therefore, the provisions or regulations in force by repealing the solution and declaring the solution void are hereby annulled and all legal consequences produced by such a solution and, of course, by all those situations of unlawful disposal of rights and obligations or by the acquisition of certain rights, as well as the rights of ownership. The circle of entities or actively legitimate for the submission of requests for annulment as well as the limitlessness of deadlines are in fact the legal basis for the possibility of highlighting the requests for annulment in all those situations where the decision has been taken that needs to be declared void. Furthermore, a truly legal or ownership concept should be based on the definition of ownership rights and the way property is acquired in the first row of real estate. Namely, the property of the property is acquired by the law of the intended registration of the acquirer in the land book on the basis of the established will of the previous owner, aimed at transferring its ownership to the acquirers. So, I'm talking about tabular correction. However, ownership can also be acquired on the basis of legal work, by decision of the courts and other authorities, by succession and by law. But always seeing it, having it as a real right to a certain thing that empowers its own bearer to use it and to do from it what he wills, and to exclude each other from it. If it's not against other people's rights and legal limitations. What do I want to say? In this regard, not only would the proposed ownership certification procedure in each case be a new legal institute, in legal practice and theory indeed one newspaper, but also the government of the Republic of Croatia's obligation to reduce to the legal obligation to launch such a process of verifying ownership is unacceptable, so I would also say from a constitutional point of view. Thirdly, privatisation in a sense can and should be seen as a special contractual relationship between parties, and which relationship is of course regulated by the provisions of mandatory law. From this point of view, I guess we're talking about the absolute futility or the futility of legal affairs, and the reasons, of course, for such futility are all about situations where legal work is concluded and is contrary to the Constitution established principles. If the legal work is contrary to mandatory regulations or if it is contrary to moral society. However, the right to point out nothing is being extinguished. They are nothing but legal transactions that do not produce legal effects which, if they are valid, should be produced. They are treated as if they were not completed, as if there were no legal existence and the court had kept them under official duty. The futility of ex-legislation occurs from the very moment of completion of such a job which is defined as consent, a sign of will and always focused on the pursuit of legal effects. Therefore, in conclusion, the proposed legislative solutions or the new articles offered do not comply with the above-mentioned rules and could hardly be systematised either in the provisions of administrative, either in the provisions of mandatory, real or land law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59948	Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59949	So I tell my colleague that this would be a new institute and it's true and it should be agreed with. However, we also need new institutes in solving this problem, and I think that all these gender discussions are about what happened. So, if there really is a real will then we have to manifest it together to the citizens that is given yet to be saved. Therefore, it is quite, why not and this bill is on the trail, so I would still visit there is still time to amend the Penal Code to extend the limitation deadlines for this kind of incrimination, which is exactly what the newly appointed chief of USKOK is talking about right now to the privatisation crimes threatened by antiquity. So why resisting SDP's proposal, and that law we had while, while during this power, but by the Constitutional Court's decision, that bill was not abolished. And so here's maybe another sentence on this line to conclude, so there's one saying that in some of the things that amaze our people, so often it's said we're speechless. It seems to me that in these things, the most enormous things our people have burdened us, unfortunately, we have not run out of words, but we have run out of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59950	Replica response, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59951	Thank you, Mr. President. So at all, the question is, I will answer the replica in a way that this represents a replica because in the first part you agreed with my presentation, and the second part you have replicated, or the provisions of criminal law on criminal law, I have not said a single word again by putting it before the public and before us the representatives of this issue in what way, for which reason it was not when the vote passed the penal law that you as a minister, the former minister proposed, and I am really glad that you noticed that this was a new one would be, therefore, a civil and legal institution of property certification when the government would therefore be bound by law to implement some sort of land-licensed procedure where, by the government's testimony, it would represent the registration of property rights in land books. So from a constitutional, real-legal, civil concept, I was talking about the concept because such a solution is absolutely unacceptable in my opinion, and it is unacceptable and we can also look back at this segment of the debate and the relation of those conclusions that this High House made in December of last year and to the constitutional position of the Government which, therefore, in situations like this or by showing the problem of conversion and privatisation should be done. All I said in my debate was a reference to the legal solutions offered. I did not talk about conversion and privatisation with any aspect, but in this way in terms of the solutions offered, which will agree on the implementation of concrete legal institutes. Since my opinion is that I do not see any revolutionary deviations from the proposed legal solutions, there are even repetitions, repeating legal institutes is my opinion that these amendments to the law, not amendments but additions to the law, are not acceptable in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59952	Another replica, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59953	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I was just going to tell my colleague that this possible institute as I hear it now we've already started calling it that and wouldn't have had as much work as we've all heard here today, because of the entire economy, it's privatized somewhere around 10% of the value. Of those 10% values, and no one will repeat the words of Mrs. Šima Krasic, it was said there that these were insignificant privatisation errors that did not affect privatisation at all. Let's remember that property is special, that they were social property, that they were on all non-local communities, and that for years there's been a factory built on it and everything. So maybe it took a while to determine the real owner, and the real owner knew it because the fact that every company becomes the owner of the company where the building is located, that's how it's done. So, what little mistakes are left are known, so there's nothing that's not already known in privatisation, so if we know it all so well, so let's just list these companies, make a lawsuit, I think you'll only have support, and not in this way, and we're making a fuss at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59954	Replication response, Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59955	So I'm going to respond to an esteemed colleague in a way that would really, he mentioned the Institute of Property Certificates, the government's approval of ownership, in each particular case, represent one newspaper, and it really is my opinion that this paper would not win in the legal sense and in terms of the implementation of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation of any substance, let's say so, so to the better. So, you've seen this well and you've looked at the specifically proposed legislative solutions, but given this opportunity, I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity to rephrase to you both in a way and related to the fact that 90% of these discussions are actually based on the topics that have long been discussed in this assembly and, in my opinion, are therefore not the subject of discussion because we are here discussing a concrete bill supplementing actually one, so I would dare to say the political background of putting the agenda back again and again the problem of conversion and privatisation in order to actually send political messages to the Croatian public, and essentially to the problem, i.e. concrete legal solutions, few who have said any excessive comment or conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59956	Proposer, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59957	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll just try to keep the debate going for a little while. Therefore, the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was authorised by the State Office for Revision to determine how and in what way, i.e. whether privatisation was legally or unlawfully implemented, and the State Office for Audit and Privatisation identified a thousand 556 cases and found it legal only for 75. Therefore, we have a legally very clear and simple fact-finding situation, and we need to apply sanctions to such a situation. By applying the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, there is no sanction in this work, we are talking here about criminal liability and we are proposing sanctions through two legal institutes. First, to correct what has been done so far and second to prevent such a procedure in the future, if we do not change now it will continue to happen. So two legal institutes, nothing. So when was the nothingness applied? Applyed when I made the bill on "Liburnia" only, but before that, I made a bill. It's the first time a contract's nothing's been applied, so it's the Liburnia case. No one's ever done anything systematic before, and the thing is simple, we go with those combinations. And the second combination is property clearance. Your property clearance isn't your land records, sir. They're not your land books. The certificate of ownership says privatisation is a contractual relationship between parties that purchase shares by legal and natural persons, i.e. shares by the Croatian Privatisation Fund and other entities of pension and other funds. The situation is clear, the estimated value and the contractually established 10m euros, for example, the sawmill case and so on. Nothing's been paid. So what kind of owner is he then? Who are you protecting? Who are you protecting, for instance? Can you prove to me who you're protecting? Second case, 10 million needs to be paid, paid a million euros. Who are we protecting now? We must be protecting workers, Croatian citizens, Croatian defenders, pensioners. Was that taken from them? It was taken from them, and we are their representatives. So, it was taken from them, we're their agents. It's very simple. So, to colleagues from HDZ. You voted for the conclusions. Okay. You've turned our conclusions into your own. Okay. We supported them, we said, we appreciate that part. So fold your strength, let's together regulate how to implement it, but not by conclusions. Look, we know what the conclusions are. They're brought here to give a false impression that something's going to work out. So we're looking for a step further. And we, I say, asked for it at the 9th month last year. Let's get this legal. Let's get this legal. Watch out, who are we protecting? One percent of those who've been bailing? You probably don't have any of you here present specific interests? There isn't. So let's go and solve this case. Solve in a legitimate way, and why government for that, so you need to know why government. Because the state's attorney's office in property law where the government protects the state's interest is only represented by the government's order. That's why that provision was put in place. It can be put on more precisely. But it's legal. The state's attorney's office has a direct role to play on, say, criminality, part based on criminal charges. But it would be, I say,... expects that the Croatian Privatisation Fund, i.e. the people involved, will now submit a criminal application, is that so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this is not about criminal responsibility. Let's not just look at criminal responsibility now. We're talking about something that's illegally acquired can never become legal. If we don't do it now, we'll keep suggesting it. But let's not send a message, there's a problem, there's this. Say, do you have a will or do you not have the will to spend this all the way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59958	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59959	Well, it is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague, Kovacevic, who literally said, quote: "We are proposing sanctions". You're not proposing any sanctions with this proposal, and if you've previously realized that I'm protecting someone with my exposure, no. My basic principle and attitude is that everyone who has sinned about the law, especially in conversion and privatisation, should be accountable for it. But you don't propose any sanctions here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59960	The second correction, the respected representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59961	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Kovacevic, said that according to the State Audit, we have established a factual state. 75 companies have been converted in accordance with the law, and in a thousand 470 and one society against the law, so you said? Anti-law? That's not true. In a thousand 471 cases, there are irregularities and there is yet to be defined which of these companies and where crimes have been committed to have a factual situation in the spirit in which you spoke. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59962	Third, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59963	Mr. President, I've got a colleague to fix. Again, he incorrectly states that land books have nothing to do with ownership. And at the same time, he claims that in all these irregularities, I don't know, that a thousand 471 illegal acquisitions are not true. Because actually most of these illegal acquisitions as he states it is precisely because of a mistake in the book. In fact, the land books of this almost failed economy were really very poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59964	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59965	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't know what time the privatisation debate is, and she's got good ones, but also some bad ones. There's been a few party privatisations here. So I'd like to see a little bit about what happened in the '90s and what we privatized. Before I go back to history, I have to say. The party and I personally and every honest citizen of this country absolutely advocates punishing every abuse in privatisation. But in order for us not to throw out the dirty water and the child, we have to be objective and say, and what we found when we started privatizing in the '90s. I wouldn't want it to happen with privatizing what happened to war crimes in the Homeland War, so individual war crimes grew to be a joint criminal enterprise. In order not to turn individual bad deeds, I say, into a privatization of the party, and some have already done so by the name of party privatisation. We want to remind you of what we privatized. In 1990, I quote then economic indicators, the losses of all the entities we privatized were 5 and a half times their income. Inflation was, we remember, over 600% a year, in some months and 30%, and the assessment and otherwise the debate on any value was absolutely impossible. 50% of the companies in 1990 had a blocked account at the start of privatisation. In these 50% of the companies with a blocked account, 813,000 employees worked. That's what we privatized. In 50% of companies, corporate debts were higher than assets. And let's remind ourselves when it comes to privatization, 400 thousand people have lost their jobs. We need to reach out to the data. In 1990, when privatisation started, there were 200 thousand registered unemployed and another 400,000 employees who were paid exclusively at the expense of new business loans. That, therefore, was 600,000 unemployed by the fact that these 400 thousand salaries on the burden of new business loans were seemingly employed because when the market economy came, when the system of hyperinflation fell apart, when the system of the former Yugoslavia's market fell apart, of course those people remained on the street. That's the 400 grand that were paid exclusively on the burden of new loans from their companies. Is that when the privatisation decision was to be made? It's a question of discussion. At the time, I had the opportunity to take part in answering that question, and I was saying, yes, I should start privatizing. The Serbian aggression that began at the same time made it impossible for us to control the privatisation because we were engaged in the defence of the country, saving every square metre of its own and saving human lives. But if we hadn't started privatisation at the time, end of the war, January 15, 1998, you'd have welcomed us with social or state property. Then where would we be in competition with Europe and the rest of the world? We had to go to privatisation to have businesses that could enter the economic relations of all privatised assets in other countries at the end of the war. And finally, what happened during the Serbian aggression with that economy? With such valuable things that we took away from the people and threw the people in the street? $30 billion of war damage is the result of Serbia's aggression for the Croatian economy and I will remind you of two more data from that time of Serbian aggression, 30% of the economic operators stopped functioning, ceased to exist, stopped producing, stopped trading, ceased to exist with all their employees, with their markets, with their repromation, with their brains. 180 thousand jobs have been abolished only by direct destruction of economic operators, and not to neglect the other part of the economy is equally important, it is agriculture. 40% of the agricultural land was out of use during all those years of war, so now let's ask ourselves who threw 400,000 people into the street? Switching from socialist to capitalist management, Serbian aggression or privatization of what I am now and... what I've just described. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it should be added and tourism is now being reminded of me. Well, of course, tourism hasn't been for eight years. Remember when, after the increase in gross national income after the end of the Storm, gross national income began to grow, when it was negative again? The year NATO flew Croatia to resolve Serbia's issue. That year we didn't have any tourists, so of course our gross national income became negative that year, and this goes into the overall results of a newer Croatian history as far as the economy is concerned. As a result of what I have said comes also a very objective report of the State Audit and not only of the State Audit but also of the State's Attorney and it is true what my colleague Kovacevic said 95% was a violation of privatisation, meaning of a thousand 556 audits, as he quoted correctly, only 75 were without violations. A huge number of misdemeanors, but these are now infringements of such a level that were not criminal offences, these are infringements of the level of false accounting, misreports of property, etc., but not at the level of criminal activity but at the level of non-availability of data, which is why the State's attorney here two months ago filed his report and said of all the audits, of all these conversions and subsequent privatisations only 4.6% of criminal charges were filed and those 4.6% should be discussed, these are criminal acts and should be driven out to a clean-up without age, without any easy circumstances, to call them and punish them by law, but then, these 4.6% are no longer party privatisations, this is the privatisation that took place in wartime economic conditions. There's something else I'd like to say about the privatisation damage assessment. We heard in President Mesic's election campaign that he would return the stolen, privatised, stolen billions back to Croatia. He was talking to me about billions of marks at the time. The State's Attorney's Office came to us a few months ago here for this pay phone, the total damage based on the crimes committed in the privatisation was 940 million marks. So, it's an objective damage we're talking about, and that's why President Mesic couldn't make a pre-election promise and pay you back... billions from abroad because unfortunately they're not there, I say unfortunately because if they were there, they'd be brought back and they'd all live better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What was I going to say with my own display? That a thousand 48 applications have been launched since 1991, so they were not sleeping but working on it. I wanted to remind you that as a representative of this House in 1993, I requested an audit of management loans, and it was carried out and several hundred of these loans were cancelled. So we're not like the leading party that took responsibility for the state then, but we've been working very hard. And what about today's proposal from our colleagues from HSP? The proposal is absolutely honest, well-intentioned, but the question is do we need another law? We have so many laws and so many decisions of this High House that based on them we can absolutely punish all the guilty. I will only remind myself in 2001 the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation was passed which in its Article 11 said that the request for review could be submitted by any shareholder, union, former or now employees, administrations, supervisory committees and still listed 15 entities. Why don't my parliamentary deputies start with those applications? Let us each file a report for a crime in the privatisation we know ourselves, and then it will come into effect already existing Article 17 of the same Act, which said that, after reviewing the conversion, the competent authority must submit a criminal application to the State Attorney's Office or as it says to the other competent authority. So, we have the law, we have this Parliament's decision, they're not being implemented, I suggest that instead of another law we simply bring an end to everything that we've already voted on, and in that case we'll erase a black page of Croatian history called privatisation, which we haven't yet brought into our own frames. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59966	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59967	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague of Hebrang. It's impossible for either of us to apply for a new revision of conversion and privatisation now, because that deadline has expired, which is why I've proposed a new six months further so we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59968	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, it's a correction, you hold that unacceptable to this proposal, not to it. ... Please don't. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know what you said, I know what you said, but it's not a correction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here are a few replicas, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59969	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Hebrang had a similar discussion about this problem here in the Parliament and he is actually starting this debate about what happened, how it was actually a bad economy. I agree in part with him, but he is contradictory when he continues to talk about huge war damages, loss of jobs because there has been a collapse, according to economic operators. So it wasn't exactly how it wanted to be shown, because, let's say, of these thousands and some revisions, so a thousand six social enterprises that had audited the estimated capital were almost 24 and a half billion marks and had 535 thousand employees in them. The audit found that 16% decreased core capital, and even 386 thousand jobs disappeared through conversion and privatisation. If that was not the case, it could be read from the audit report, so contracts concluded with the Croatian Privatisation Fund and development programmes have not been found to be such large surplus employees. Here's colleague Hebrang's review says, I'm going to quote according to the data from the development programmes for a thousand 556 audited entities, 106 social enterprises have shown an excess of 23 000 882 employees. Remember, 386 thousand 675 jobs went missing and 307 social enterprises had outdated equipment and technology and proposed recapitalisation. So you're also talking about non-criminal offences. Unfortunately, it's not criminal acts. Of these nearly 2,000 irregularities that have been identified for the largest number there are no prescribed sanctions in the laws and it is the greatest actually evil of ours... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59970	Replication response. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59971	Thank you very much. A respected colleague has actually confirmed my allegations because what the State Audit quoted was found but after this transformation from socialist to capitalist economy was made even after the Serbian aggression destroyed the Croatian economy. So the picture of the review is after what I said and I absolutely agree that it is. I'll just mention that even the great losses of banks, we heard 17 billion dollars was invested in them and 700 million were drawn out, also in one large part caused by war. In fact, these banks financed largely the supply of arms under the embargo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59972	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, given a great abundance of agendas and given the very extensive debate and this and other points that follow and those who will come and I will extend this session and continue it for the days 29, 30 and 31 March and 11 and 12 April. On April 12th, it will be one session of the Croatian Parliament at which the President of the European Parliament, Mr Boreo, will address the Croatian Parliament. And this time after the beginning, after the end of March, MPs will be able to use it for election campaigns and we will not burden the Parliament in these two counties and the city. Now we interrupt the session. We have two replicas, respected representative Marko Širac and respected representative Antun Kapraljevic, at the presentation of representative Hebrang. Resume at 3:00. Replica, the esteemed representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59974	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a fellow representative of Hebrang explained in his presentation the times and conditions that were in the Republic of Croatia when the privatisation of the Croatian economy was started and implemented. In my assessment, I think it would be good to refer to that part of the privatisation that was started and partially implemented under the Privatisation Act, so-called. Markovic's Law. Just one small example, the start and implementation of the privatisation by Markovic law is in the glass industry, factories, glass industry in Lipik, which was an extraordinary company profitable and not in Croatian terms but in Yugoslav proportions, which simply went from her account overnight to a business association in Pancheva to prepare for so-called "Pančev". Markovic's privatisation. And the other thing I'm going to end up with, the leadership of the company when the clashes started, they took away these fat, fat, barbed checks with which they were raising cash all over the former state, and so on from a beautiful, beautiful firm, a profitable company, Croatia inherited a company in a war destroyed, but financially in total ruin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59975	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59976	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to thank my colleague for supplementing what I did not arrive because of the time of the presentation, which is the continuation of what I said in my presentation. It wasn't a party privatisation. The privatisation began long before HDZ came to power, it is Markovic's law. And now I'm gonna pull the parallel. The same thing happened in the former Soviet Union. Who ran the privatisation there? At the time of the Soviet Union, there was one KGB member in each company, so one member of their KGB intelligence service who was in charge of that factory for all employees. When privatisation occurred, this very KGB man who knew the core of business became the main robber in their privatisation. I'm pulling that parallel because something similar happened with us under Markovic's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59977	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, second replica. He's gone, so he won't replicate it. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59978	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, a representative of the government. So for more than a decade in this House, the most common topic is the conversion, privatisation, the need for revision, and then the audit reports, and even when we discussed the latest review report on several occasions we are discussing this problem again, and the public would appear to be, in public it could be said when so much is being discussed in one Parliament about one problem, then it is burning, but there is also a will to resolve it. But over all these years, all the debates have only strong rhetoric, but we have little will to solve all these consequences that have been brought about by conversion and privatisation. And when a Croatian citizen asks what they are associated with the words that are here today almost every show of robbery, robbery, kidnapping, the first association will be your conversion and privatisation. And I personally think that the Law on Conversion and privatisation was unfair precisely to those who created values that entered into conversion and privatisation, primarily workers and former workers who were supposed to be one of the holders of conversion and privatisation and by that law, but it was at the time of the war and it was at the time when their receipts were such that they did not dare to go into such an alleged adventure. The most painful thing for citizens is that they were the most robbed at a time when they had their own country and at a time when they were defending this country with their lives. Why was it done during the war? We keep asking ourselves that question, but those who could answer that question have been silent all this time. And so when we have another initiative from HSP colleagues to solve these accumulated problems, i.e. identified irregularities in privatisation primarily, I will support it. I will support that, even though it is evident that this initiative cannot get a majority in our Parliament, because I am glad that there are still those among us who are still at odds with the consequences of conversion and privatisation, so that the eye is struggling with the windmills, and the whole business seems in vain and is truly in vain, because throughout this period we cannot gather the majority of this Parliament to at least pass one of the laws that could resolve these consequences. We have hardly passed the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. This has been discussed since the mid-90s and every answer to any such question has been under the existing law, there are mechanisms that can be audited, that is, control and supervision. That's right. However, the question is why and under the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, this was not the case. Why, until 2001, any initiative was resisted to pass a special law that would review conversion and privatisation. If I remember correctly, at the end of the term of office of 95, we had in the procedure of the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. The SDP club has been talking about it for years. The SDP club was the only club in the Croatian Parliament that did not vote in the adoption of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation. So, when a colleague Kovacevic asks why we didn't come forward as a club today and we don't know our position. Our position has been known since the adoption of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation. We have reached many conclusions, we have tried in this Parliament and with certain legislative initiatives that in one segment at least would solve or punish, sanctioned those who have done indifferences in conversion and privatisation. And I'm going to appeal to that conclusion of the Parliament, I don't know if it was 93 or 94 years of his colleague Hebrang. I think his name was then the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the declaration of invalidity of management contracts, I don't know exactly the title. Management contracts and insurance contracts. At that time, such control was carried out. A few or one contract number has been cancelled. But that's where it stops. It was a one-time control, and it wasn't controlled any further. There was no control over the execution of the contract that the Fund concluded with its customers. Not in the first phase of privatisation, because it was mostly attended by employees only. The biggest problems in privatisation actually occurred in the second stage of privatisation when contracts with small shareholders broke down and sold or gave in, to the management of stock packages or stakes then according to the selection of the fund itself. Out of the tens of thousands of pages written by the State Review in dealing with this problem, they all managed to put on, see, a total of three pages of what they found. They found that under the law there were applications for revisions in thousands and 6 social enterprises, that 471 companies were audited for coupon privatisation, which is actually an ideal beginner of privatisation problems. That 770 companies were audited in which shares were replaced and shares between the fund and pension funds and other legal and physical persons. And that, for 491 companies, there was an audit of the sale of shares and shares from the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Or a total of 556 social enterprises. They had a share capital of almost 24 billion marks. We've already talked about how infamously many of these companies ended up. In fact, the base capital was reduced by 16% at the time of the audit. 386 thousand jobs have gone missing in these companies. 345 or 22% of companies were in bankruptcy or bankruptcy had already ended on them. It is also interesting to note that the audit found that not all that the social enterprise had had is not included in the underlying capital. And no one controlled how these funds were available, whether they were sold, who was selling them, etc. My colleagues here are also talking about the fact that we should establish with... Property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, actually, you know how the company that was in the conversion and privatisation of land books was enrolled. So on the basis of the elaborates which were presented the solution, the fund charged a certain price for the solution and the one who ran the company could enter all of its properties that were on the planet in the land books. So it seems to me that even though there is a small part of us here that will sort out this problem, obviously this initiative will not get enough support either. I'm just gonna try to remind you what's been going on so far. So, the 10 conclusions, several legislative initiatives, including the Single Tax Act, which was in the last term and did not get a sufficient number of votes. We tried to get him involved in this term, he didn't get enough votes. It has already been said that the amendments to the Penal Code that wanted to solve a part of this problem have passed. We had an initiative to amend the PIF Act, and it also did not receive support here in Parliament. That is why I think it may be better and fairer to tell the citizens of the Croatian Parliament in this term there is no political will to solve all the problems that have arisen as a consequence of conversion and privatisation. And I think, colleagues, that if there is a second reading we should do a little bit and nomotechnically edit the text of this Law because it actually looks more like a conclusion in some segments than the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59979	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59980	Thank you, Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This and this proposal for a law submitted by the HSP club on the additions to the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, as our colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, recently mentioned, has reopened the debate on this issue that has been bothering our citizens for so long. However, I think that the infertile debates that are returning to the field of analysis, here I can add even the medical concept of dialysis, which has all happened and happened during conversion and privatisation. Why? Because as much as we talk about it and prove it, after all, even objectively and accordingly based on the findings of the audit, which was carried out during last year's coalition government, and here, it is also now in that sense, and the extended time of action, it will not actually bear fruit. Why? Because our citizens know best and just experienced, even better than we do here, what happened. They have not yet recovered materially or mentally from it. Now, as it is, I think here, that finally more matured time for us to tell what else we can do here, which we can't do. This trail is followed by proposals, or conclusions made by the Croatian Parliament several months ago. And here now the Government in an opinion that disagrees, which does not support this proposal for the law of the HSP Club, says that every existing order of ours and order can do so. Yeah, but that part doesn't work, it doesn't work. Everything that does not work is not good and needs to be changed and there is no need to fear innovation and new institutes. In order for the new institutes to offer finally state bodies and help them, of course, because it is very important that the state bodies feel a political message that is being sent just and from this House have and how to make their job easier. So, first of all, apart from these things that are proposed in this Law, we are left with the question of the Penal Code. There's no question here and that we're counting now, so there's no doubt that the good solutions were offered, that they were brought in, that the thing had failed, so I think it's inconceivable to tell me why you didn't secure most of it. If we're gonna argue like that... Exactly ensure most, this is what the Constitutional Court said, which is why this Law has fallen, but everyone has their share of responsibility and opposition and power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it seems to me if there really is a real will why not satisfy precisely that, on this very trail, it allows our judicial authorities to complete their work in one part of it. Here's what the newly-named USKOK chief is talking about privatisation crimes, how they're being threatened by old age, that most of it fell into obsolescence says, but there's still some cases to be saved, but there's also an age threat. We've seen exactly the state's attorney's reports, the state's attorney's office on two occasions, so in the last two reports where they're just talking about this problem and what the other branch of the government should do by referring to the executive, and on its own, legislative, in this sense. And why fight it? There's no valid reason. So we can't go from that situation, during the original HDZ government, this happened, during the coalition government, it wasn't sanctioned even though it was, and we're all equal here. Well, that's not the point. It's about getting out of this situation. It is certain that he had every part of his responsibility and that the citizens knew how to say what they thought about it, or behavior, or behavior. Therefore, what can be done in particular besides supporting this Law is the change on that trail as we have done and amending criminal law in part of economic incrimination, so not only in changing economic incrimination, because we know that here, especially in criminal law, it is worth the supreme principle of legality and that the laws cannot be retroactively applied, but in any case the question of extending deadlines, the theory has been resolved and there would be a great relief in the work of our judicial bodies. Because why? Then why extend the deadline and the actions of the State Audit? Well, she doesn't do it for the archives, she does it exactly because she serves it and such materials, she serves state bodies in charge of... in order to be able to prosecute those irregularities, those illegalities that have weight, such a degree of social danger as to represent criminal offences and which are being prosecuted on official duty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's going to come out of date, that's exactly what the newly appointed chief of USKOK is talking about, then it's all pointless. After all, he also talks about not only this but also some other accompanying regulations, so he talks about how documentation can be destroyed by law after the deadline. Therefore, we must also be here about this bill called for the cleanup of what we want, and what we will not do. I say let's let it all go now, we've said it so many times that this people are really pissed off and nobody's profiting from it. They're going to profile the one who shows the real will to solve the problem and what can be solved in the future. So that's our one suggestion. So, the first amendment to the Penal Code during this government was to move, i.e. incriminate the crime of cloning as if threatening to clone in Croatia a man, and that is even impossible to do with us, and what we do with the street, which says that this last attempt and the last items will go into obsolescence by pretending that we are powerless, and in this way we are not all participants and accomplices to do so. And the second is what is also colleague Zgrebec and mentioned, it's the law of so-called. a one-time criminal tax where an injustice like that can be rectified. He's absolutely on the trail of legality and he's in line with all of our legislation. This also raised the question of enrolment, the credibility of enrollment in the land book, the inviolability of ownership. That's true, but if you have a criminal verdict where someone is found guilty and by general principle and special regulations that no one can preserve the property they acquired by criminal act, then here and with the laws themselves, all of this is annulled, and therefore we have no legal barriers or closures. In addition, the State's Attorney's Office's reports on the processing of criminal offences committed at the time of conversion and privatisation show that our state bodies were the most inefficient. We will now not talk about theirs, nor shift the burden of responsibility that they are obliged to bear on their own, but once again I repeat what we can do to make things better and easier in this regard. Our criminal legislation, or criminal acts, is part of the trial no longer and there are no delays, unless in this act and here unless the limitation of time-limits is extended, and they can only be extended if the statute of limitations has not yet occurred, then this is really all groundless and therefore I think we show this one determination that what has been filed but, which is in front of our courts that have great difficulties and objective and subjective nature, but if we propose an age-old period that was 30 years, then it is a message and justice if you do not solve this case, it will be solved as long as we, or most of us, live. And I think it's very important for the establishment of permanent peace in these areas, because like war crimes, they've already been mentioned by someone, what the enemy did to us, we ourselves... what he failed to destroy, it's our own fault. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, you see, it seems to me that just for the sake of establishing it, it's very important for the health of one nation, for the health of its own citizens that these worst examples will not be tolerated, that they will try and sanction them together. I say a lot of things have fallen apart, there's no absolute justice to be established, but there's no way that when we still have time, there's no need to give up. And therefore, on my own, on that behalf, I personally support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59981	Thank you. Honorable representative Tomljanović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, he would replicate to a colleague in the part where she is returning to the section of criminal law by referring to the content of discussions by some MPs who have said something about it in an individual debate. Namely, what do I want to say? I would like to say that we can, of course, talk about conversion and privatisation from the aspect of material and criminal law and procedural criminal law and from the aspect of USKOK. However, this is not what is said on the agenda, or this is about the completion of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, which in neither of its proposed solutions directly opens the debate on strict criminal property law in any other sense. And in my debate, in this very context, I touched on that time period of government behaviour of a political option when it was in the process of adopting a criminal material law with outdated deadlines which were indeed what they were, or proposed, within the greater limit in terms of and the imposition of criminal sanctions, and thus the possibility of a greater period of limitation. But I also note this occasion, and thus I will conclude this replica that I do not understand how, within one political option, a time period of government behaviour, political power in every sense, is a matter of changing the Constitution twice and it is not a matter of whether or not responsibility is transferred to this or that political option so that no changes can be made and not a lot of articles of criminal material law or criminal law relating to sanctioning the crimes committed in the context of economic crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59983	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59984	Well, it's true what you say, my colleague, is that now it's about amendments and additions to the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, but if we really want to, and I say that I'm surprised and I'm surprised first of all by the government's opinion. If we want to do something on this plan, if the deadline for the state audit itself is extended, then I'm surprised why we don't give the judicial authorities an appropriate deadline from which they themselves won't be able to escape. So that's what this is all about. I won't even call you now why the Penal Code has been changed three times without these things being changed. We have today, and soon new amendments to the Penal Code will come. So it's not too late yet. So let's let go of what was, what he wanted, who could, why didn't. Let us now show one will that we want to do so and a team before the judicial authorities themselves say when you accuse us by the legislative and executive authorities that we are not effective here, please, because of the very problem that we are facing here, because of the complexity of the cases, because of the lack and the experts and the specifics of this profession agree and call for the lengthy deadlines to be extended.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59985	Thank you. Replicated representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59986	Good sense. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] It is precisely no-technically proposed that this proposal for a law supplementing the Audit Act suffers serious criticism because it cannot be prescribed as set out in Article 20a. In the event that the assessment cannot be retroactively prescribed for something that did not exist at the moment where the offence was carried out, there shall be no limitation of the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Among other things, the conclusions that we voted on on 15 December 2005 clearly committed themselves to the existing institutions of the State Attorney's Office, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Croatian Government, and we gave a deadline of 90 days which has only recently passed that all procedures that are now possible and without amendment and addition to the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation are in place. This is precisely what I'm saying about the nomotechnical things about how a certain law can be passed, a certain provision to not only pile up new bill proposals, amendments and additions and already existing laws and regulations allow for sanctioning everything that has been done against the law, against the law at the time. In that case, many hours of this debate would be spared and we would show the public that we know how to professionally, professionally and modernly edit our laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59987	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59988	You tell a colleague and then you explain it further. I don't care what citizens can't do. Citizens are asking for something to be done that can still be done. Therefore, we here and you as a government, so as an opposition, we are obliged to offer people and citizens solutions rather than excuses. And you're not exactly right when you say about material law incrimination, it's not at all questionable. However, our legal theory absolutely stood at the point of view that deadlines of limitation could extend and extend the time of obsolescence of the individual offence in case that it was still obsolete in a specific case did not take place under the existing and unchanged law. So that's settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59989	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59990	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! The IDS is the first parliamentary party to submit to the parliamentary procedure the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. It was a long time ago in 1997, but these are now paces to pass and no one happier than me if, for example, this would happen today on the conditions of this Article 1 as stated here: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself to launching the procedure of declaring legally invalid every single case of conversion and privatisation carried out in an illegal manner" etc. Unfortunately, this revision, let's call it that, or that annulment is hardly possible. It's not possible, and because nobody dares to say it, they don't want to. He doesn't want the power of the former or the present or the future. They don't want judges, they don't want state lawyers, they don't want media that are also gentlemen privatized in 1991, 1992, at the latest in 1993, and that let's just live on a purely living de facto of sponsorship of also privatised companies. Finally, I dare say that this revision of conversion and privatisation, regardless of what will sound almost blasphemous, would not even be expected by employees in these companies for the reasons that they know that companies in which they work when there is a movement, privatisation would simply fall apart as a map tower. Clearly, people don't need to be underestimated. We're not children. They know very well how their bosses got to the company. However, in these people, these employees receive a salary that is what it is, but they can still survive 30 days on the other hand, and what can the Proposer of this Law or state offer them? They can only be guaranteed to go to the Employment Service, and that's where they'll get 900 kuna, and that's not even enough for naked vegetation. So we are not left with another valley to conclude that those who took part in the conversion, that is the cynicism of "par excellencies" simply became the cariatides of this society today. It's sad, it's tragic, it's insulting, gentlemen, but unfortunately today it's what you wanted me to admit it to myself or not just like that. Is there anyone in this House, and I also dare say beyond this... who, for example, believes in the annulment of conversion and privatisation? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think there's any more of them. In 2000, even gentlemen could have won the election in that parish in some way, but today it simply cannot be in front of voters. Especially after learning that in 2004, Mr Kovacevic has imposed only two suspended fines, or only two fines, on our court for irregularities in conversion and privatisation. The country, everyone here said it was stolen, and the other sides were given two fines, two paroles, and now someone's threatening to reverse the conversion. I don't think a retarded individual can believe that anymore. That's rough, but that's just it. Just as the conversion of gentlemen was possible only in the course of the war and the revision of the conversion was possible only there, in 1997, 1998, 1999, however, there was no will at that time, as unfortunately there is not today, and God will not sit in that government tomorrow in which, for example, Pero Kovacevic will sit. What if, for example, someone in this country were to revise the acquisition of banks? We all talked, everybody talked about it. On the one hand, $14,15 billion was entered into the recovery of the banking system. They were sold for four or five billion dollars. So within 24 hours, Croatia would be left without a single loan. Within a month, we gentlemen would be hungry as a country. For example, what would it be like for gentlemen to undo the way some Agrocoru companies are acquired in which the note of the Bene State is now involved as a guarantee for some credit lines? So the former ministers were with the director of Agrocora in London. Mr. Church remembers that and knows that they were, that the state was then a guarantee if I'm not mistaken for some $250 million or EUR or something like that to Agrocor. Never? Okay. Then I'm wrong. Which, yes, which would be if, I don't know, once the Struk were nationalized under quotes of assets that the note bene didn't even participate in the conversion but came back to the hotels that were renovated which might have been better than that he was involved in the conversion. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Well, no one would come to Croatia with one dollar of foreign investment anymore. What would be gentlemen if someone, under quotes, supported Pliva, and 55% of Pliva is held by foreigners at this hour. So Croatia would not sell any more drugs abroad. What about TDR and so on? The Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, says, "We're not selling Pliva." Oh, Mr. President, 55% of Pliva via the London Stock Exchange is already keeping both the government and Pliv and the Croatian public foreign shareholders exactly familiar. So it's a paradox. The community some of them, I won't say this, they stole from them today, so the community that some of them have used you has to worry about even these same systems so God doesn't let something happen to them, so they don't fall apart like that. At this point, the entire community is somehow in the function of that capital, of which 90% of the people have come to that capital in an extremely amoral way. The local self-government must be in it. The ministries must ensure that the capital of a specific acquisition is secured. For example, I mentioned earlier Croatia's security either today the Prime Minister or the Minister of Tourism of Croatian Investors to take over this tourist sector in Dalmatia. So they pray for the same ones that Mr. Pero Kovacevic and I know that in one extremely immoral way they came to that money in early 1991 or 1992. It's just like that today. Who has money in this country? There's only that 0.5 or 1%. Everything else would say to the Istrians, the coasters are just a mess. If someone had said it was going to happen, it means in 2006 that these same people who participated in how to elegantly legalize their portfolio, I don't think anyone would believe it yet in 1996. We are simply, in a way, the victims of what happened in the early 1990s, in the 1990s, when it comes to conversion or privatisation. Victims and politicians, working in whole citizenship, are illusory to waste words. And I'm sorry there's no Mr. Letica here, but he's absolutely right. And now those people who took part in it, who have the power, who have the money watch out all of a sudden become the main fighters for the rule of law. They are now starting to talk about democracy, freedoms, entrepreneurship and so on. Paradoxes of paradoxes, but it's just like that. These people, not that anything will ever happen again, but these gentlemen will enter politics if through sponsorship they are not also dominantly present. At the local level, even more pronounced, the media, more pronounced, sponsors them because they pay and sponsor the media. And far from that, neither is this latest idea, I dare say the President of the Republic about his list of upcoming elections. Why not? Let's do it that way. However, now the overall responsibility, I dare say, will be on it and one relatively comfortable position of uncut authority as I am experiencing it may lead to questioning. For the end of the IDS will clearly support this Law, the HSP Law although we don't really believe in it, I must admit that. Although I do know that in the end it won't be possible to implement it. But when the ball is a ball, and I would really like those who took part in all this in early 1991, in 1992 do not end up turning into major fighters for the rule of law, democracy, freedom, and so on in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59991	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59992	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Cain. If I didn't believe it was possible to implement it, we wouldn't even be writing this law. If we at the HSP club didn't believe it was possible to conduct it, we wouldn't even be in the process. Therefore, the matter is clear. In fact, the situation has been established and we are looking for sanctions to be applied to the established facts. With two models, a model of nothingness and another model of ownership. There's nothing going on here that's going to stop the economy, that the workers are going to lose their jobs. However, although the one who concluded a contract with the fund, and didn't pay what he was supposed to pay, the contract is a contract, and he can't carry on what wasn't his because he didn't pay it, he'll get 10 if the price was estimated at 10m euros. He has paid a million euros, will not be a majority owner and is still going on without a problem. There's no problem, let's just say by chance what you say to Agrokora that the state has given guarantees. Well, by the way, the state has given guarantees to something if that's what you say more, to what will become hers tomorrow. That means, it's been determined, 10% is ok. The ownership certificate paid the amount it's yours, and 90% returns to the fund. It's state property. Therefore, nothing is disturbed but only sanctions apply to the established situation. And it's exactly what you're saying now that the bailiffs are the greatest fighters to establish the rule of law,... the rule of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because what they want is to protect them from being taken away and illegally acquired. ... Therefore, it is only the return of what is not their property of the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59993	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59994	I have said before that IDS is the first parliamentary party to submit in 1997 to the parliamentary procedure of the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. No one happier than me would be if it were to happen, as you point out here, that such legal affairs would be declared nothing. I wish you Mr. Kovacevic and I all the best of luck on the implementation of this bill. However, to all of us, however, I also remind you that even the workers of the last breath supported, say, Mr. Vrhovnik at Victor Lentz. As the workers of Agrolaguna asked in bankruptcy to be taken over by Agrokor, or Mr. Todorovic. All in all, the situation over the implementation of such a law for which I have all my heart is a little more complex, so we should see what the application of the same law can bring to the Croatian economy, and through it and the Croatian state, not to tell all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59995	Replica, the esteemed representative of Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59996	Mr. Vice President, I have to say that I have to agree on a lot of things that Mr. Cain said and I share the same opinion that some things have gone too far and it will be very difficult to bring them back. And, but that doesn't mean that those things that exist, that can be responded to and that the judiciary can react to should not be reacted to. But what Mr. Cain said about the banks, our big firms, for example. to buy a hotel in Dubrovnik, which Štrok mentioned, it will be very difficult or impossible. In the end, it's just going to turn out that this law wants to make some points, that it wants to do something, but it's not going to be able to do much. So I think Mr. Cain, except for some little, little things that we can agree on what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59997	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59998	Once again, no one happier than me if this law came to life, that is, if it were to be implemented and there was no damage to the wider community. However, here is the question of whether we gentlemen have an ally, for example, with regard to the implementation of this law. in the judiciary, the state's attorney's office, and the media themselves. I assure you, we don't have gentlemen. Because don't forget that many of these media outlets are also privatized in '91, it doesn't matter whether by Markovic's law or by the law of the Republic of Croatia in '92. That is, '93. A year. They won't go against their sponsors either. Well, there's a lot of money in the game. So they live simply on these commercials and don't think that the next day when they're committed between this legal solution and the money won't be determined for the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u59999	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Caine, I actually agree absolutely with your discussion. In fact, I just can't let one of the findings that you've made so that we can keep our citizens hungry. I assure you these processes have nothing to do with hunger. In fact, if we remind ourselves a little from about 88 to 90 percent of the ownership is grant and catastrative in the hands and now private persons of peasants for production. I'm talking about food. We now produce enough 2, 3 or 5 cultures somewhere, but we are ready to feed not one Croatia but more than 4 and a half million inhabitants. So all these processes can be viewed separately and we're not dependent on them, but I agree that capital is the one that, in fact, where we're all dependent together, and politics is subject to it. And it's actually not implementing existing laws where we have problems. This attempt by our colleagues is just one piece to speed it all up together, or rather to keep it from getting old. But in no case does not stand the finding that we could stay either for Todorovic's sake, either I don't know who, the names are not clearly important, but I'm just symbolic of it. Because we don't have to be afraid of hunger. There are healthy tissues that are ready to feed us at any time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60001	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60002	Lives understandablely from milk, meat, cream, cheese, bread, etc., potatoes, tomatoes, I don't know what, wine, but without work, and this law can leave us without jobs. Indirectly, gentlemen would be left without bread, for even a peasant should pay what he offers, or sell. And three or four times today, five times today, I'm 100% for this bill, but unfortunately I don't believe that he's like that at this point implementing a team more than I know that we here in this assembly don't have an ally outside the assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60003	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60004	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Cain has just said that voting for a law like this would leave a lot of people out of work. But what he said before speaks very analytically of a situation that we today cannot correct by such a proposal for a simple reason, as this would also introduce legal uncertainty among legal persons who have acquired something and have alienated what that third party might think. I believe that the best way is the very conclusions we have made, where among other things we have also tasked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure all necessary conditions for the work of the relevant state bodies, the State Attorney's Office, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and for the effective taking of necessary actions and activities in relation to criminal, criminal, property sanctioning in connection with illegality and irregularities in the conversion and privatisation procedures, the establishment or annulment of legal transactions concluded in the processes of conversion and privatisation that are contrary to the Constitution, laws and regulations, the return of illegally acquired property during conversion and privatisation, the damage done during the conversion and privatisation, mainly the protection of the interests of the property of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is up to us to reach a single consensus and that, in this direction, the Croatian Government, in accordance with our conclusion, fulfils this responsibility within the time limit that it has already been said and certainly proposes such things in the new Law on Privatisation or the Law on Public Private Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60005	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60006	Here I will agree entirely with my colleague that the work for the widest community should be done by the judiciary, the State's Attorney's office, not politics. If this legislative proposal is an incentive to the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary, then it must surely be supported in one declarative sense by 100%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60007	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament in this debate I have actually come to the conclusion that there are some MPs who are actually afraid to discuss the revision of conversion and privatisation, and I wonder why. Whether or not some of us were involved in this, we're afraid of being exposed. Indirectly or directly, they may have made it possible either as influential politicians or as officials may have lobbyed for certain companies, which may have been worse, taking profit percentages, therefore having material, or some monetary benefit from individual conversion and privatisation of the state into private property. If the revision so far has shown that of the 1556 privatised companies in which privatisation was carried out, in which the audit took place, only 75 were privatised under the value of the Privatisation Act, and we all know that the law was actually not good at the time, it was not good and it was not fair, so the situation in the economy is what it is, and we all know it is not good, and it is even worse because unfair and illegal privatisation was carried out. I don't agree when some of my colleagues say and when they look at this in black and white technology, that all conversion and privatisation is equal to robbery and robbery. That's not true, because exactly the revision showed who so far illegally acquired the property and we at the HSP Club are looking for such sanctions only. So we don't view the whole conversion and privatisation as something illegal. The most important question arises is whether we as a nation, so that finally, as a Parliament and as a state, we accept illegal privatisation. And if so, then we send a clear and unambiguous message to our European and global public, that everything is possible in our country, i.e. We can break laws, we can get rich in robbery, and we can't answer for it, and then we can become model citizens. Why don't you sanction all those who didn't respect contractual relations. That is why we are calling on the Government to play a major role here, together with the Privatisation Fund and everything that has been illegally obtained on the State's Attorney's Office in order to sanction all illegal and illegal acquisitions. Why is there any illegal and illegal conversion that could go into a curtain? I am against the abolization of anyone who took advantage of the moment and in the time of the creation and release of the Republic of Croatia illegally and unfairly I would say without money, I would gain great wealth. In fact, the conversion and privatisation is not from any of the most important points of view of the moral, legal, political, economic and social, as well as the expected outcome. The result is the loss of over 400,000 jobs, a lot of poor workers. Despite the fact that over 95% of the cases I have already mentioned, 1526 audits carried out have been established, unfortunately nothing has been systematically done so far. Something illegally acquired cannot become legal, and that a factual situation has been established, this established situation should be adequately sanctioned. It is high time that the executive authority, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and other authorities began to take legal measures to sanction robbery and robbery of conversion and privatisation. I don't support it, and I don't agree with those MPs who say there's nothing more that can be done. I cannot believe and call on them to support this proposal of our law in the second reading and to work and to propose some better and better quality things in order to achieve the implementation of this Law. And I certainly don't invite all of us here for counsel to remain silent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60009	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60010	Says Mr. Pejo, some of us are afraid of this law so something doesn't come out. Damira Cain is not afraid of this law because he did not participate in any conversion and privatisation. Because that's not what I was involved in, to be cynical, today I sincerely regret it. Why? Because those who have taken part in it today sleep incomparably more calmly than I do. They only think about themselves, and unfortunately I have to think about them. If God hadn't given them, something evil would have happened to their economic operator, so they wouldn't have broken down because only then would it have become our problem. Especially at that local level, higher than insurance jobs to these people and so on. Replica, excuse me, yes. [[Intruder: Replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60011	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, on the trail that my colleague Cain started with. Kolega Trčević said there are some among us who are afraid to discuss conversion and privatisation and that they are some. I would ask you, my colleague, that since the term may be associated, it may indicate that we are all equal, so you can specify who some of us are. I think that would be very correct of you. For example, here I go, to sweep at my doorstep. Nor could I get... some kind of good or favourable manager's loan or some kind of attractive stock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I beg you, don't put all of us under the terms of some. Be specific, I assume you have the information for both the public and our fellow MPs, who are they?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60013	Thank you. I think the honourable representative... Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60014	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing, I said it like this. Some of us may, alluding to this as an important topic, are far more important than some nonessential subjects, so 50 debaters reported. And only a dozen MPs came forward on such an important subject. In this regard, I feel either fear or lack of interest in this subject. So it's a simple thing. And I'm sorry if any of you find yourselves offended, I apologize. I wasn't thinking about all the people, but I was thinking about there might be some of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60015	Replica, the distinguished representative of Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60016	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, there are various definitions of fear in this House. I was recently accused of being afraid to raise me a yellow tile instead of a white one during the debate. Well, now I've picked up the yellow one, and I won't touch the white one again so I don't get scared in the Parliament. Now, again, we're scared and raised either yellow or white so it doesn't turn out that we've done something wrong in the privatisation process. I think it's so one of the political flossulas we're throwing at that we can't prove or prove anything. And me and Mr. Tragevic know each other very well, and we know that neither of us participated in privatisation. And what my colleague Babic said would be fine if Mr. Tradcevic apologized to all those who had no shares, did not participate in the privatisation. And speaking of which, it seems to me that the esteemed colleague Trčević was not here at the assembly when he spoke to his colleague, Andrija Hebrang, and he said, among other things, with many figures that have demystified privatisation that only 4.6% of those who were reported guilty after the audit report. Therefore, we can talk not about 70, 80, or 90% of those who have erred in privatisation but only 4.6. Or what the expected result is that I expect my colleague Trčević to respond, which is the expected result of privatisation, to keep all the jobs we had in 89, 90. That's impossible, gentlemen. Who knows anything about the economy and the economy knows that it was impossible. So I'd like to see what were the expected results of the privatisation we didn't achieve. I find that unusually interesting, I hope to get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60017	Thank you. Here's to your courage to lift the yellow tile, Mr. Tragevic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thought you all really understood what I was going to say at the beginning. That there's some fear of this debate with us. And I'll tell you why so much opposition to second reading of this bill. Did any of you here say, this is a good proposal, we need to put it in the process, we need to fix it, we need to suggest something else or supplement what's wrong with this bill. Why am I right now about to be alluding to one of us here in the Parliament? I meant not only for us MPs, but for and beyond the people outside this assembly. That means you'd like all of us here in the Parliament to be involved in this debate. In view of why some insignificant bill of law is referred to 15 MPs and here we are discussing for 3 days, and this is how important a proposal for a law of conversion and privatisation is discussed by 10 MPs for half a day. So I just wanted to give it to the value of this bill. And, Mr. Nenadich, I was here in the assembly when he held the debate, Dr. Hebrang, and I understood everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60019	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. The word has a distinguished representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. ... No, she's here, not gone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The word has a distinguished representative, so Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt is losing her right to debate, not in the hall. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60020	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, about the interest of the MPs because I think my colleague Trčević has withdrawn a good topic and I can agree with you that this may be too few people who have responded, but all clubs have come forward and 15 representatives have appeared in an individual debate. Three months ago, when the Croatian government took a billion-dollar loan to implement a reform of secondary education based on and dependent on the country's development over the next few decades, two clubs and one individual debate appeared, no one more. Another story is a small European story, and it came from the UK 25 years ago when the government of Margaret Tatcher decided to privatise a company called... The company stood very well, they estimated it, when it came to the London Stock Exchange they cloned within 15, 20 minutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Apparently, shares were underrated. First Tuesday, as the prime minister answers the opposition's questions every Tuesday, the first Tuesday was the opposition's representative up and told Mrs. Tatcher how much did you earn in that transfer and what do you intend to do after that embezzlement? She said I didn't earn anything, but the gentleman and that name and the gentleman and that name and last name, the two named, she said four days ago, they stopped being government advisors, from now on they're on the work desk. Therefore, the culprit is always known by name and last name for every mistake that seems to be made. Unfortunately, it's just not like that in us, and that's not good. I have a feeling that even after three millenniums, even three millenniums since this text saw the light of day, and these are the ten commands of God some Croatian politicians have not yet discovered this text in order to at least behave, robbery and amoral behavior is part of our everyday life, which is unfortunately a colleague, unfortunately. Unfortunately, privatisation is essentially just one prototype of such behaviour, unfortunately one prototype that led to loss of jobs, a huge number of our citizens and a reverse I would say economic and our country in a few decades. I think we can agree here no matter how much we and what we defend, but that's the case. Regrettably, it is really sad for a country that calls for European traditions, and thus clearly also to the Christian values that are very often mentioned here in this House. How much are we politicians to blame for this? In addition to those ten commandments of God, it might be wise to add several original Croatian commands or non - Croatian commands. I'll tell you here some possibilities, and each of you will probably come up with a series of suggestions in a very short time. Here, for example. do not influence the judicial authorities in order to bring legal proceedings against you into obsolescence, do not prescribe qualifications, do not comfort those who have provided bail and houses in the parks of nature to build, not forgeries of council members' resignations, do not prevent local and regional council members from acting in their duties, do not protect individuals who directly participated in economic crime, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. My colleagues, examples like this, just reading the headlines of our newspaper, you'll do a hundred. I think it's a lot of things that we sit around here are really guilty of. He named his colleague Kapraljevic a few hours ago, because we agreed in front of the club all those laws and all the conclusions that this Parliament has made, which are dead letters on paper, are not exercised by the executive authority, are not exercised by the representative authority, are not exercised by the judicial authority, are not exercised by anyone. If we were to do really well then, based on that example from England, hundreds of people would really have to leave the state service, they would have to leave because they don't deserve to be there, they're part of that system, they're from the judiciary, too. I'm deeply convinced it's the only way. And basically what's going on? Follow the fate of those men a little. We were talking about them and fellow Letica was talking about a colleague of Caine, a part of those people we know how the media worked them... , they call, participate in central TV and radio shows, become national heroes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What morale is that? What's going on with us colleagues? In my opinion, at this moment, Croatia is at a very serious economic, political and moral crisis and we bear our share of responsibility, without further ado. What I expected when I came to these benches, I expected at least we'd all agree on three things. First, that each of us has the right to say what he thinks and is best represented by those who sent us here clearly. Secondly, we will be able to identify those best proposals, best initiatives, support them and thus ensure the development of this country. And third, that after four years, we'll leave a clear clue that we'll be proud of both of you in a position and we in opposition. Unfortunately, I don't think there's gonna be any of that. Is there any chance that something could change, that we could do better? I must admit that I am not an optimist, nor will this law, which is a good law, a good suggestion from my colleagues, admit a good proposal, but it will be nothing from him. It's not enough here even the political will that's mentioned. I have a feeling that it can only help us to be one important shift of personnel, new people, more honest people, more capable people. I don't have any other formulas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60021	Thank you. Replica, please. Honored representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Doric, I agree greatly with your debate, I'd just like to point out once more about the subject of this fear. In fact, when I was talking about the fear of individuals, I didn’t think that they directly participated in some malfeasances and illegal privatisation. I've heard a lot of MPs today expressing fear of the potential loss of jobs when there's a revision of the transformation and privatisation of certain companies. So, I was talking about this fear, and I'd just like to mention one thing that you supported, which my colleague Kapraljevic said in his debate, which is not standing, which is that this proposal is a law, and you said it was good, and my colleague Kapraljevic said it was a waste of dust in the eyes of the robbed citizens and that it was a pre-election trick that was largely not because this bill is honest, honest and I think it can only bring good to our people and no pre-election trick because I personally think that if this bill came to life and spent at the cost of not being in parliament anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60023	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60024	I think we're serious people. You know, if a real review of privatisation was made and everything went right after that, that there might be a temporary number of people without a job but if they started with a really healthy base then they'd make up for that deficit very quickly. I don't have anything else to say. All you have to do is start working fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60025	Thank you. The word has been given by the esteemed vice president of Dom Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60026	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the man did not want to open this debate like this on this bill I ask myself the question why we are even passing the Law on the revision of conversion and privatisation, whether to only determine illegalities, to satisfy ourselves and eventually to realize that there is nothing we can do or to determine the facts, so if there is an illegality to initiate measures to correct illegality. That's the first one. Secondly, do we even have the right as a legislative body to say that there is nothing we can do if we have found that 95% of conversion and privatisation has been done in an illegal way. I won't talk about the degree of illegality, possible injuries... I personally don't think we have the right or the ability to remain silent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thirdly, I think that here is a very serious thing and in this context quite certainly a debate on whether to vote for this or some other law so that it could cause legal uncertainty does not stand at all. Correction of illegality only contributes to legal certainty rather than legal uncertainty. The second thing that is very important to do here is to note whether this law could lead to the collapse of economic operators as some say or could lead to a job-free resignation. Well, gentlemen, every day the ownership structure of individual companies changes, and there are no corporate failures. There will be no breakdowns and people will be out of work, the real entities will continue to work. Here something else opens up as a question, whether we are ready to face this problem or we want to bring ourselves into a political position to agree and to actually accept the illegal situation resulting from the conversion and privatisation as a done state, as the final state that led to in fact the illegal way were provided with the original accumulation of capital on our occasions. I personally don't think we can, we can't, and we wouldn't have the right to. In this context, I am also willing to support this idea, although I believe that this amendment or addition of the law is not sufficient, it is not enough and that it is not fully defined. By the second reading, this part of the indetermination can be done and this part of the insufficient should actually be passed a new law and I think so. I think that Croatia should pass a constitutional law to determine how to correct illegality in the conversion and privatisation and who should implement these proceedings, and on the other hand how to damage both the state and the social community, and in this segment there is no debate about it if we do not complete this generation of this now-saborial call or some others on the basis of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation and by establishing the fact that we ourselves acknowledge that we are not able to deal with the greatest form of collective corruption that has happened in Croatia because it has transformed and privatization that it has given people in a legal way that it can with privileged opportunities come into possession of large assets and even when it has been illegally done and we do not really want to correct this layer of new rich people who are no longer... to the holders of political power rather than the holders of political power become their servants but contrary to the interests of the people or the interests of this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in such a situation, I advocate that we pass a new constitutional law that will settle this issue from the matter of the procedure to the issue of return, to the question of compensation or any additional payment of what has been collected and below the estimated value, etc. Done. In fact, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we discuss this, we must actually take care of our generation. We are a generation of citizens who, with this question, bear collective generational responsibility to future generations in relation to the national wealth that is privatised in our terms in an illegal manner. I'm not talking about the 5% legally privatized and converted, I'm talking about the 95% that the State's audit found illegally committed whether it was a violation, a felony or a criminal offence, etc. I'm not talking about immorality at all, and if it spreads to immorality to possible aspects, then we'd just see what's behind it. Some mention these kind of forms of law-playing at the time. You know, I've analyzed it. There's no three, five. I found twenty-two forms of how laws were played in the most perfidious way a human mind could come up with. That's terrible. Now allow me, why I think this idea as a first reading can possibly be supported, by knowing in advance that it's not enough. It's not enough, it needs to be passed constitutional law. So it would be a transitional period. And secondly... You need to fix it by the second reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, we can't handle that the government has to commit that it will undo individual cases. No, it's got to be us, too, and that's why it needs to be a special law. This is not the authority and jurisdiction of the state government. The Fate Authority must establish on the basis of the findings of the State Audit on individual cases... the elements, nothing but to adopt an appropriate act and cancel such a part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, this allows for a possible special procedure, of course in one and the other to complain, to conduct disputes, etc. The second thing that is important here cannot be seen by the government that it will prescribe the ownership process. It's the opposite of the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into The constitution is explicitly said: "The structure and affairs of the state administration and the way they are carried out are governed by law." There's no government to do that. In addition, Article 112 itself. The constitution is said that the Government also adopts a law enforcement regulation, not to prescribe conditions and ways of exercising rights for citizens... Therefore, these issues should be addressed in that segment, and therefore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's one positive thing. This law opens up two additional options. A) First of all, there is no... Obsolete, and secondly, that an additional 80-day review may be launched. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally think if it is a doubt that the illegality of conversion that revision deadlines should not be prescribed at all that can be done permanently. Because if something illegal is done, it can never become legal. And the second thing that I repeat for all of this here is very important to do and try to reach an agreement among all parties. The second question now is how will we compete on conditions, how to regulate the law, but about whether the illegal situation in our country needs to be corrected, and I think that we should reach all the arrangements and pass a constitutional law that will regulate the issue. There's no other way. We bear collective responsibility to our citizens present and future for the situation resulting from such conversion and privatisation. And no, until it's done, you don't have a single businessman who's not under any doubt or doubt. You know, it has to be done for both the owners and the property. And for the manager and for the workers and for all of us. And that those who are fair and lawful to be even more precise, the legal way to get to the property remains. That those who have not wronged their own law of conversion and privatisation are given a chance to correct and pay, and pay the state and the people. To damage the people and the state. And that those who are aware of that... Infringement and so on, they are responsible for the procedure not only materially but possibly by some other basis if there are, for example, criminal responsibilities in that segment, and so on and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's why I consider this issue to be regulated by a special law and not by any constitutional law. Why? Because it is economic issues which, of course, the Constitution states explicitly in Article 2 that it regulates economic, legal and political issues, but these are economic issues of particular interest for the whole nation and for the whole country. If they are of particular interest because so much, because it is such a large range and reach of interest and hurt interests caused then we must go to the Constitutional Law and definitely draw the line that way. And one more thing. Under this Constitutional Law, we will probably have to pass some laws that should be ensured if nothing else is to be paid tax and other relevant taxes that were not in conversion and privatisation or charged, and if they were freed by law we cannot yet understand it but there and where they were prescribed they were not but they were being played because it was conscious that they were not working. The example works I know quite accidentally a case which the audit has also found illegal. In which a loan was issued overnight, in a few days he allowed a few people to reach the manager's loan. They bought the company, they pawned the loan, the shares of the same company they bought, and then they bought the company's assets with that loan. Business buildings and so on and so forth and of course the deadline was up, they couldn't repay the loans. ... It got, got a bank of that, that bank got shares of that company that were actually only worth the administrative building, all the other assets and business space was sold and at the same time, and then there was bankruptcy and that bank, and so it fell apart. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the question in this segment is what did the banking system actually do? So you protected such and such a form of conversion and privatisation that there are some things we cannot do. That is why it was not possible, all possible efforts were made not to open a revision of conversion and privatisation. So, to get it over with, I'm sorry, I'm sorry I'm gonna take a minute longer. I am proud of all of us in the former meetings of the Parliament regardless of party membership, regardless of the argument for and against, but I am proud that we have passed the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, that according to the Law on the Review of Conversion and Privatisation, the State Review has established illegality, and if no one can correct these illegalities, we cannot be free of responsibility from it and therefore I propose to really consider the possibility and pass a new constitutional law that will correct these illegalities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60027	Replica is a respected representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's how I'm going to replicate to the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament this last thing he said about, one firm has listed what it did, let's say 90% of the company did the same thing at the time. And we're here, I think I'm, like, spinning around in circles. While some of our brothers and parents were at war, some did so. We'll go back to sports, too. While I was playing and my friends were playing some sat in the positions of sports clubs, associations and so will stay the day today. I think this High House can only say here, let's talk, as Mr. Tragevic said, one day, two days, three days, but what happens tomorrow? Do we have the strength to say who bought the Croatian media? Who forms a public opinion in the Republic of Croatia? Let's take a look at state television, who's the lead sponsor? These people who suspect in privatisation. Their companies are on prime-time TV. In any segment of society, these same people form an opinion. So we touched on one topic a month ago, so 7, 8 days ago, we were all on the stage of shame of how much we have received that we were privileged, that we had some privileged pensions, we only touched one point. And imagine that we're going to touch all these big let's say tycoons since 2000, since 1990, so that, who would have the courage and the touch since we know that they, one larger number of them, have 10 to 15 thousand employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60029	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60030	I set an example. I agree that in other cases there were likely similar forms of law enforcement and the very abuse of law. But I've been working on studying the problems of playing and misusing the law and this example that I cited as, I've cited as one of the examples of acting. Not as many cases as he could have, because I don't even know about all the cases. What's important, you know you couldn't write, and I'm one of the authors of the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. You couldn't write it without studying how it was played. And you know that when, when a man studies and sees it, he really gets sick in the stomach that people can get down to that level in their moral dignity, in their own moral dignity, and not, let alone even their collective, individual responsibility to the community. Thank you very much. Because they just think of themselves you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60031	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60032	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You've been discussing the purpose of the law here for hours? There are those who say that this is actually a continuation of the revision, or that, with the existing Law on State Review of Privatisation, this law is not necessary. The purpose here is actually to protect national interests in the economy, i.e. the purpose of this Law is to compensate the Croatian people and the Croatian state for the unlawful privatisation. To be clear with one fact. The privatisation process was politically motivated both in Croatia and in other transition countries. It was simply a political decision by Parliament and the government to change the ownership structure and that what was a state or social property would be given to another titlemaker. We've had thousands of variants of how to implement it. After all, privatisation was carried out in Slovenia, but did not end up in the same way as here, because they were included in the privatisation of pension funds, investment funds, banks, and the Slovenian state had its share everywhere. This was not all here, and we really do, if we want to deal responsibly with state property, we have to show adequate responsibility here as well. If we don't pass a law like this, then there's a fundamental question of what the privatisation review was for, especially considering that one large part of the cases went out of date, so it's practically not going to be in most cases of prosecution on a criminal basis. But it doesn't cost us anything to run at least what the HSP Club is up for, and that's the annulment and recovery of illegally acquired assets. ... Legally acquired assets in this case are shares may be owned by the owner of the one who illegally acquired them, and may also have the owner of the one who had them before, which is the Croatian Privatisation Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing will happen to these companies because their ownership structure will change in the part where the shares are illegally acquired. Today, companies in the world are operating independently, regardless of who owns them, so what percentages are divided into. And I don't see any reason why by transferring parts of illegally acquired shares back to the portfolio of the Privatisation Fund we can change anything in the functioning of certain companies. To be cynical to the end. In some, we're not going to change anything at all because the newly acquired owners didn't do anything at all. And watch out, in 70% of the companies where the privatisation review was carried out, this is seen in this report, 70% of the companies did not have investments that were promised and announced. So, if that's the case, let's not say that in only 75 companies over a thousand 460 were all clean. So it's perfectly clear for these companies that nothing or almost nothing is actually going to change. This raises another question, and that is who it is and if anyone by the Fund has been monitoring the implementation of the privatisation contract. I'm not just saying that during the '90s, I'm saying that between 2000 and today. Who on behalf of the Fund, on behalf of the Croatian state, therefore oversees the implementation of a privatisation contract with a particular company, for example by privatising "Primostena" to, "Primostena" so hotel company or hotel company "Jelsa" in Jelsa? Who's watching that? I'm responsible for no one by the Fund. So we're in a situation where this law of ours is being challenged because laws don't apply anyway, so we need another law. If we did so, we could disband the entire Croatian Parliament immediately. Because we're actually passing laws that we assume won't be followed anyway, that they're unnecessary anyway. That's not a good approach. This Parliament, this government, has a historical responsibility not to allow errors in privatisation, to miss out on privatisation, to make obvious crimes in privatisation not cover historic forgetfulness. Or today to start saying that there was a time when the original accumulation of capital in the days that were held by barons of thieves, that they had adopted the largest share of social capital, that a large part of them had done it completely illegal, but that it was time and that nothing could be done. We can't afford such a thing because we're actually sending two messages. One message about the full legal uncertainty of a state that allows such acquisition of property, and another message is that the revision of that period itself was completely pointless. So, when I talk about reviewing privatisation, I remind myself of the fact that the club of HSP advocates, when the law was passed, warned of two failures to the law. It is one thing that deadlines are too short and that it would be better to keep the process of reviewing and privatising continuously, because simply for some of these companies we have not obtained adequate information at some point. And the second is the very model of activating the privatisation review. So it was stated in the law that it was then and only if someone reported it. Instead of going by definition to every firm. This may take longer, but there would be no inequality between companies. Literally, all companies in Croatia would be covered by a privatisation review. Unfortunately, I repeat, that didn't happen. And now we're actually coming up with a fundamental question about what with this property that's illegally acquired. There are a whole series of examples that you can find from the State Audit findings and which actually raises the question of whether it is possible for us to remain blind and deaf and not react to it. For example, the privatisation of the hotel "Libertas" in Dubrovnik. The State Review says: "In land books in the competent court no transfer of property rights to real estate has been carried out. A 1462 building particle from the Dubrovnik bank at the Agency, although the request of the Dubrovnik Bank has been subdued by the Agency.". So definitely that particle is still owned by one you shouldn't be. We also have a whole series of examples, both from the Dubrovnik area and from other areas where assets were assessed in a very strange way, where loans and debts were recalculated in a very arbitrary way into equity shares. We have a number of situations where in a very strange way the capital of these companies was acquired. We must not remain indifferent to this, we must not remain blind and deaf. And that's why if we want to determine ourselves according to that period, we have to pass a law like this. We must therefore say that for the Croatian Parliament it is not acceptable to have illegally acquired property. We must damage the Croatian state and give it back the property that was illegally taken from her. I repeat again, this is not about criminal persecution simply in a contractual relationship. If someone makes a deal with someone and he cheats on them and breaks the contract, it's someone who's guilty, and the person who's guilty is usually saddened by the one who's been cheated. In this case, the Croatian State has been deceived by one significant amount of shares and it is normal for the state to react to this. Unfortunately, even today, we've been listening to arguments here all day that we can't do it, or we all have a very good will, but best not to get into it because it's not going to be anything. This is not a good point of view, and if we want Croatia to do well, we must not fall into such a position because we are sending a very bad political message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60033	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Tadic, said all that nicely and it's all right, but why did I say this was a dust-to-eye, I'd like to relate to what he was saying. For the simple reason why today's debate shows that this proposal will not enter into another reading, that we here will debate for a long, wide time, repeat the story that was heard here two or three days ago when we discussed the Mirovinski Fund, when an apparent robbery was established between the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute of that portfolio, which was owned by the Mirovinski Fund, nothing was made. I'm interested in this case only in property, I'm interested in who ever after the review under the Criminal Procedure Act reported anyone, and has an obligation under the Criminal Procedure Act if he sees something illegal and that it's a criminal offence to report it, because if he doesn't report it, he's committing a crime himself. No one's ever done that. Will one of those who ran the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or the Croatian Privatisation Fund ever answer because it made it possible? He won't. And the citizens are expecting it, and that's why I think this is a dust drop, because it's not going to fit those who really did everything they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60035	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60036	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's not about throwing dust in your eyes. The HSP Club has the best will to solve this problem. It is our duty to raise this question and we will move it. Pero said well, every six months the Parliament will discuss it, from today until this matter is resolved. And it is a matter of conscience and consciousness and government and the ruling coalition, and besides all the MPs in this House, will they support this initiative. Nobody says our law is perfect, it... But the Government is willing to make the second reading a perfect law based on the political will of the Croatian peoples expressed through the will of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. [[You don't understand.]] I do not believe that it is the will of the Croatian people to keep quiet what was happening in the privatisation. For this, the return of illegally acquired property has no statute of limitations and as long as we can run this topic again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60037	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60038	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Tadic, you say very well that something needs to be done. For 15 years, privatisation takes a Croatian way. 15 years. And unlike the traditional divisions in society in the legislative, executive and judicial power, we have the economic power of that secret and that secret. And even the judge calls the Croatian banks that their courts can't do anything, and that's what we're deafening ourselves to. So to whom this economic policy suits. We have a 13-year-old stabilisation program that hasn't gotten its results. We still have 300 thousand unemployed, we don't know who owns the stock, we don't know who owns the company, we don't even have those records, and we can deal with it. Of course, something needs to be done, whether it is necessary to order that specific cases of illegal privatisation be dealt with specifically. Maybe that's the best or maybe the most painless solution, but obviously we're not powerful at that kind of action. Therefore, the problem of Croatian privatisation and such policies cannot be solved on its own and it only corresponds to those who have become powerful in privatisation and this situation concreteizes relations in society. Therefore, your initiative, of course not entirely processed, did not fully address the problem. I advocate that specific cases of illegal privatisation are dealt with specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60039	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60040	I agree with my colleague, Leko, that one big problem of course is the judiciary, especially the commercial judiciary, which is completely incompetent, and that is how it is seen by the President of the High Court of Commerce. But the thing is, for all these processes in society and for the systematic fight against corruption and for the systematic fight against illegal wealth, there must be political will, as it has in its time become the political will to go on privatisation, but with a lack of political will to monitor privatisation and sanction time. And the punishment for those who have illegally acquired property, even if we enter into a criminal statute, will be great, for God said that they had and did not have, when they were taken away from them what they had wrongly acquired.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60041	Thank you. So we're moving on to a five-minute club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HSLS club, the esteemed representative Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60042	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A colleague Kapraljevic has been here for two and a few years in Parliament, so he seems to have a lot of dust in his eyes, and what someone who has been like this since 92 actually shared this fate of a parliamentary representative, how much dust is in his eyes, so that there is actually nothing more and nothing more. I remember here in '98, '99, actually the parole under which we got the sources then was a revision of conversion and privatisation. There were people sitting in this House who had their hands pounded on the table and said that at the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament which means somewhere in February 2000 that there would be a revision of conversion and privatisation on the agenda. The time has passed and since this review of privatisation not only at a constitutive session that is still protocolal, it has not passed, and March, and April have come some more important topics. And I'm so naive as my colleagues from HSP, I suggested my proposal to review conversion and privatisation. Believing that something you've won the election and something that clearly represents the eastern sin of our 90s policy to make it correct to offer it. Unfortunately, there are always explanations that are extremely simple and murderous, which is that the proposal is not complete, that it is missing. And I really don't think a parliamentary representative or his club or party could have the kind of insight that institutions, state institutions have. I was just expecting that the government would finally, if it were very good, very wise and very clever, that I forgot to say for correctness, my colleague Cain was also part of that team and we, I say, submitted this proposal and unfortunately, so he ended up as obviously finishing up a proposal from a fellow HSP. And that, now I don't know if we're masochists, when we're actually fooling ourselves or really agreeing to live in this illusion, and it seems to me that, really, let's say, a battle for a better past that should in some way, it's possible to stop because there's obviously no political will. And it is interesting that elections are better spent by those who have no political will so they get greater support from the citizens of this country than those who show a permanent political will to change this indeed, the eastern sin of our policy. And this is that at the time of the Homeland War someone really did defend Croatia, someone else used it, political, cousin, tribal, and in similarity and indeed acquired great wealth. I have to admit that in the city of Osijek, I mostly learned about privatisation the second day from newspapers, that some company was privatized. The most common of really people without any biography, background, is simply said to have arrived Befel and I don't know, one, the other, the fifth, the tenth company sold. And in the end, later on, you had to turn out to be guilty about what was going on. On that side, I also find myself guilty. Here today we had an opportunity to listen to an archaeology, a memory of what was at a session. And it's all probably true because in the end I can't, I haven't been there, but if in fact each of us were to admit and confess their part of the sin and what our contributions to this truly magnificent privatisation that there is, that is, how much it cost Croatia about 400 thousand places. And about this double morality that is so present on our society we can read yesterday in the paper that only when you stop being something, when you're no longer the president of that and that court, then suddenly you become very brave and then you're actually talking about what's more or less somewhere, we all know it more or less. It's something that really shows how much morals, heights, credibility in our public life are present. I will always remember and remember our unsuspecting Nobel laureate, Branko Horvat, who, in one of his more lucid observations, said there was no bloom of private property without robbing social property. And that's what we really showed that we're masters and that we've quickly turned that social property into something completely different. Unfortunately, this streaming has not often been followed by these economic interests and values that privatisation should have actually been realized. And yet it seems to me that she's as alone as she is, she's gone from a completely wrong premise. Everyone was counting on it to be a win, and actually experience, for example, in rich Germany, showed that privatisation in East Germany was primarily a great cost. I was here, remember, last time I spoke about that Glemba complex. It was the time of the original battery and the Glembas began, I believe there was someone butcher, a merchant beaten in the woods, and then became seen members of the then society. And that's what's happening, and that's what's happening right now. Whether or not to use Putin's axiom to underline the line and say that's it. To leave what seems good to me in this bill of law to become obsolete there is no so at least that there is this certain cramp of all those who have thus acquired, I do not know, but still as a politician plead to turn to the future and present, and these... our Drine in privatisation, unfortunately we can't fix it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60043	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60044	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I am free to remind us that for this same pay phone many times before our club we have talked about the problem of conversion, privatisation with one finding that we are a little bit back on the subject. And we said we'd be back very soon. Here's what happened, and it'll happen in the future. In fact, everything that happened in Croatia about the conversion, the privatisation, we characterized as something immoral, as a robbery, to say by crime, and we never gave a decoded answer whether it was that or not. No one's said that by now. Today when we talk about the need to pass a law to answer these questions and to solve things, to give people and our citizens an answer to what happened. We're making up circumstances today so there's nothing we can do. Well, gentlemen, there's nothing you can't do, and I'd be begging to stop saying once that something can't and to start saying something can't. That's it. I'd like one small example yet, not of privatisation and conversion itself but to remind you that one generation that we're somehow representing is damaged. You know the position of people who are retired today and those who will come. We have channeled 30% of social capital into the pension system. So then we've done a nice job of exploiting it and just sold it out or shared it and it's gone. And what little we have left today is what we've done before. Well, couldn't we have created a fund like we have pension funds today that are mandatory pension funds? Why we couldn't set up a mandatory intergenerational solidarity fund from which we could, from that huge one-third capital that was apparently so distributed. Why they couldn't finance our pension system from the capital's income. We did, but someone was not interested in doing so and believe that we will support this proposal even though we think that it should be added far away, but we should also support something, that we start from something and build on what is possible. In fact, when we talk about sanctions, when we're not even interested in whether someone is sanctioned or not, it's a matter of the prosecution and let them do their job, but we're going to ask that every kuna that's taken is not only illegal but also immoral to go back to the place where it was originally meant to belong, and so I say our club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60045	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, distinguished representative Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60046	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored gentlemen of the Croatian Government. We've been discussing a law today that should actually make sense to the audit and privatisation that has been carried out so far. If we don't pass this law, the privatisation review remains actually a dead letter on paper. If we take into account the fact that part of these crimes went into obsolescence without this shift, we are actually giving all of them who illegally acquired their property during the privatisation the opportunity to continue peacefully living and doing business and to own and use the state property that they illegally acquired. The whole question, therefore, is whether the Croatian Parliament has the power, because the Croatian Government clearly has no power with this reason, so whether the Croatian Parliament has the power to deal with this problem and to say that we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament who chose Croatian people here, do not want to tolerate the illegal availability of illegally acquired property on behalf of the Croatian people. If we do not have the strength to do so, then let us forget all the stories about the rule of law and the entry into the European Union. That's all it's about. The choice of the privatisation model was a political decision. The choice of the Privatisation Monitoring Model was a political decision, the choice of models to tackle the failures, damages and crime of privatisation should be the political decision of this High House and, on behalf of the HSP club, I call on you to have the strength and courage to make such a political decision. It is a matter of the historical responsibility of this High House and let us not take ourselves behind completely pointless thesis about how old it is or how we will increase the degree of illegality and legal uncertainty in Croatian society. Legal uncertainty and illegality becomes and begins from the moment when someone illegally acquires property and when nothing happens to him or more precisely when nothing bad happens to him. If we allow such a way of doing business then we question anyone who wants to invest in this country because he is aware that tomorrow someone can take away his property in a very strange way and no one. So we want everything that happened in the privatisation, that bad and illegal part to be covered in oblivion. We do not want it to be said that there was a time for the initial accumulation of capital in privatisation, but that this was the end of time and that unfortunately nothing can be done and we do not want those who did it to go unpunished. It is therefore a matter of political will to be realized through these conclusions made by this High House, unless these conclusions were then just a matter of daily political paroles. In fact, this law guaranteed that the Parliament would repay the Croatian people, the Croatian citizens who expect us to do just this. They expect the Parliament and the government to stop the illegal availability of illegally acquired assets. I repeat, without the law proposed by the Club of HSP Representatives, the entire privatisation review process is hanging in the air, so I welcome all the clubs that have given full support to our Law, and I also call on all clubs in the Croatian Parliament and all representatives to vote for this Law in their first reading. In the second reading we will read if God together with the Government to write the Final Bill, but support the Law in the first reading, please. I'm not saying it's perfect, but we will respect all your remarks in order to really pass a law that is the right answer to this problem faced by the Croatian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60047	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60048	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief. This debate today has shown that the core of importance that will be the entanglement in the Croatian Parliament, which will finally begin to deal with the conversion and privatisation, i.e. the robbery, robbery and theft that took place at the time while Croatian defenders defended Croatian sovereignty and the Croatian state, has been robbed by others. It is evident that, in essence, all clubs except the HDZ club support the fact that at last, Mr Kramaric eventually changed the opinion of the HSLS club, that is, what Chehok was saying. Therefore, we ask only that you all follow from the vote the will of the electoral body that has chosen you to the Croatian Parliament and that is the only time that we finally send two messages, the first message that theft is stolen and illegally acquired will never become legal. The second message is that it will no longer be possible to do so in any case, in any instance. So this assembly of parliaments, the fifth assembly of parliaments can remain recorded in the small history of the Croatian state and the Croatian people and in a positive sense because the law is supported by all clubs except the HDZ Club that the conclusions are sufficient. It's not enough conclusions. The conclusions serve to give the impression that something is done and nothing is done in the end. And we know for ourselves that what we brought in December the deadline has already expired. The government did not even refer the Privatisation Act as it promised, nor did it refer to a public private partnership. Therefore, we must have so much power to turn it into law and how to create it. Here we are the core that matters and the rest of us are going to do it with soap or force. That's what they need to be told. Kind or force to do what they were supposed to do before and not do. It is the only way to introduce order and finally work the rule of law and it will be our best program in the fight against corruption, the best program because we will hit where corruption was created in Croatia. She started from conversion and privatisation, and there was nothing going on and on and on and on and on and on. It won't solve any different strategies, programs, it'll solve this. So we can say we lose the battle, but we won't lose the war. We will not lose the war because Croatian voters expect it from us, and if it takes every six months, we will submit this bill, so I guess we will finally bring it in and now we have the opportunity to bring it in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60049	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60050	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. He's a proposer of the HSP Club. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, I am voting on the next conclusion as a home working body. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the revision of conversion and privatisation is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the report of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 70 votes for, five abstentions and 29 against. The majority accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60051	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia – Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar, First Reading, P.Z. No. 416 You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60052	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Short. First, why I put the motion for this intervention into a law that was passed in 1997. My first occasion was the provisions of Articles 29 and 35. Article 29 of the current law provides for a provision that, if a dispute arises between units of local self-government on borders and if they fail to reach agreement within the prescribed time limit on the settlement of issues in question, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall decide on it and before that it must obtain, quote, the opinion of the public of the areas to which the changes are concerned. Furthermore, this same Article 29 points out that a special commission will be formed, that this commission will have its rules of procedure, that the Government will appoint the Commission within 30 days and that a statement of objection may be made against the Commission's decision to the Government within 30 days. However, in that provision, Article 29 does not specify a time limit within which that commission must resolve the subject that comes before it. In Article 35, it speaks similarly of possible disputes in the division of property rights and obligations of those local communities that are shared, combined or, for example, a settlement from one municipality to another. Therefore, not necessarily when new municipalities, new cities, or when the municipality receives the status of the city or city of the status of the big city, yet the existing law points to an agreement. If there is no agreement again, then the Government or the Commission of Government will resolve it again without a provision of the time limit within which the case must be resolved. My second cause was March last year when we discussed amendments to that law to the government's proposal, so the government's bill of law was in the process ahead of the local elections, if you remember. I then intervened with the amendment in short, only suggested that these Articles 29 and 35 should be incorporated into the provision that the Government's Commission or the Government's Commission's decision on the dispute must be made within 60 or 90 days. A representative of the government refused my amendments on the grounds that it was too short. It was not said what would be the appropriate time limit if 90 days were too short. I was ready to take 180 days, 360 days, whatever. But the government said it's short notice, let him run out of deadlines. And my third cause is the situation that the government states in its opinion on this bill of law that I knew in advance. The government does not normally support the adoption of this law and says that those items relating to property, rights and obligations, I quote, therefore mainly that the government has resolved, mainly all cases concerning the division of the assets of former municipalities, have subsequently been approached by individual objects relating to the issue of division, e.g. later found properties or the issue of ownership of a particular company, whose resolution is under way. How many of such subsequent cases have come before the competent authority, and if since 93, 94, 95, when we formed the current territorial structure, most of them all have been solved, it means something has not been solved because it says that everything is mostly solved. So how many cases are there before the Government Commission of 93, 94, 95, 96? How many cases later came that weren't solved? And how long are they waiting for a solution? I personally know of four cases which have been submitted to the competent commission and the Government Commission in 1996 and 1997 which have not been solved, which have not been resolved until today. As for those within the borders, therefore, when municipalities cannot agree on the borders of the government in their opinion, it shows that 24 cases have been pending with it, the government stresses that out of the total of 20 counties in 8 counties there is no dispute while in 7 counties out of the remaining 12 only one dispute. Only one dispute at a time within the borders. These only 24 items within the borders are 24 cases of problems with the adoption and adoption of spatial plans. It is as many as 24 cases that have been waiting for years for resolution and which have not been solved and that is as many as 24 cases that are unknown when solved if resolved. There's no other word. So they must wait for the word of this commission or commission and the other institution cannot address it. No justice or anyone else. With the proposed changes, I went to the goal of arbitration in disputes within the borders of property within a county being resolved by the arbitration authority of the county. And in the case of disputes, two or more counties, then the government's body remains a commission or commission. Noting that the very fact that we finished our territorial structure in 1993 and that most of the border disputes were resolved does not mean that there will be no new ones, because today we are on the agenda, and in the meantime there have been another 2.3 proposals for incurring a territorial structure that is not suggested to form new municipalities. It's the migration of one settlement to another where the issue of the border and the distribution of property is reopened. And final. In a large number of cases and by law comes the privatisation of utility companies whose shareholders and co-owners of the unit of local self-government and will again have a dispute in co-ownership and co-ownership on these and such companies. And instead of the government refusing my proposal, which is the government's right in its opinion to express its willingness to impose deadlines in the existing law in which it will address the problem in the first degree, it says there is no need for these changes in the law. Then let's leave the situation to maybe 2017. The parliament, then called, receives a report that those items that came to Zagreb in 1997 have finally been solved. I also wanted to ease the burden on the Central Office of the State Administration. Let them not necessarily deal with things that are not theirs if we can solve them regionally. I wanted to help them not to have to draw the boundaries of disputes in Zagreb as a result of local antagonisms, heritage, frustration, problems, spite. There's something about these disputes. I wanted the regions or the county to handle it. To add importance to them and the obligation to try to deal with the problem in their territory first in agreement and then with a first-degree decision. The government says you shouldn't. It would be interesting to get a list of these cases when they came to the Central Office in front of the Commission and the Commission, where the dispute is and at what stage are the resolutions. Finally, whether municipalities that cannot and have not adopted their spatial plans because of the non-definition of borders are subject to the provisions of the law and whether representative bodies will be disbanded or whether the Government will implement the law and disband because they did not adopt spatial documents in time. I know it's a subject that has no great interest here or here in the hall or beyond. Because there are no people from the municipalities and cities where disputes exist. Because we're not the ones who are there every day to see what kind of conflict comes about these things and how many times have there been extraordinary elections in the local environments. It is only a matter of moving to a regional level and setting deadlines and I repeat that it is one of the few laws in Croatia that does not have a deadline within which the body, the state authorities that has those powers, does not have a prescribed deadline within which the dispute has to be resolved. It was the only, only thread of leadership, the only motive of this brief proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60053	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? A representative of the government? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60054	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's unlike fellow Lesar who said he'd briefly explain but it wasn't so short I'll really be short. So the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalitys of the Proposers of Mr Lesar. We cannot support it in view of the fact that we do not feel that it is necessary for individual controversial objects of division of the property of former municipalities, because of some unresolved mutually as I have said, in this clarification of the relationship between a particular village and a village to be established in all the counties of a particular commission, the Commission does not call them at all in any way because, due to the dilemma, even 24 cases that have yet to be solved or which are under way, there is really no point in going to change something by law and saying that in one I do not know the County of Međimurje or Istria where there are no such and such problems. I will say for Međimurska that they are not there because all those who were or were eventually are resolved by an agreement. It is, though, a long and long-term agreement, but they are still resolved. In particular, the last case is the municipality of Mala Subotica and the municipality of Orehovica where many things have been solved for a very long time and where it is probably because the reasonable people in one and another municipality have finally come into the situation to sit down, talk, agree. With the help of the county resolved without any legal normation to the kind of guy that's been proposed here. And I really think that this is as one of the reasons why the burden of the Central Office is mentioned from having to draw boundaries they or judge in certain situations. Also, for us at the HDZ Club, there is insufficient reason to support such an initiative that has its own, which may have had its own justification and its right to be found before this Assembly at a time when the municipalities were after the founding of '93. And later on, those whole new municipalities that appeared there until '97, '98. They could appear to be some kind of insurmountable problem for the government. But we are convinced that how the Central Office can deal with all these problems in the future that will eventually arise. And I think how much I have learned in the conversation with the secretary of state that just over the past few months, a lot of the cases of those who are here have been mentioned that their resolution and resolution are under way, i.e. it's actually happening right now, so at this point their resolution is being resolved. Finally, once again, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60055	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60056	A fellow dancer said all border disputes in Međimurje were resolved. No, they're not. One success after eight years of dispute is Little Subotica Orehovica. But there are three more border disputes left, but I'll tell you later which one and not now after this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60057	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a esteemed representative of Peronja. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60058	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas. Proposer of the Law is representative of Dragutin Lesar. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the field of county, towns and municipalities is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 74 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 21 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60059	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 430 – Proposer Valter Poropat. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received a report at a government meeting at a session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60060	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. Article 30 The law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia has been prescribed a procedure for changing the area or headquarters of units of local self-government, and for establishing new units of local self-government. In accordance with Article 30(3) of the same Act, the amendment promoter undertakes to obtain the opinion of the County Assembly in which the unit of local self-government for which the change is sought is located. Articles 36 and 76, 59 and 77. The Statute of the Istrian County has been prescribed the authority of the Assembly and the headship to decide on certain issues, as well as the acts they adopt in their work. The conclusion of the Istria County Assembly on 21 February 2005 gave a positive opinion on the decision of the Municipality of Krsan municipality in the process of changing the area of local self-government units in the Eržiće settlement. The law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, called "Ržiste", is the correct term: "Eržiste" is contained in the Municipality of Kršan. Since the Agreement on the acquisition of real estate, movables, financial resources and the rights and obligations of the former Municipality of Labin since 8 October 1993, by the decision of the Municipality of Kršan and by the Border Agreement between the Municipality of Krsan and the Municipality of the Council on Sunday, it has been uncontested that the settlement Eržišće fully enters into the Municipality of the Council Sunday by giving a positive opinion by the County of the County of the County of Istria County, it is also possible to formally initiate the procedure for the amendment of the Law on the areas of the county, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia by removing the settlement of Ržišće from the Municipality of Kršan. There is also a correction to the name of settlements from "Ržiste" in the correct name "Eržiste". It is only natural to coordinate the legal situation with the state of play, since all the time citizens from that area exercise all rights in the area of the Municipality of the Council of Sunday. If we look at the law as it is given, the proposal given in the legal proposal shows that there are only two articles. Therefore, Article 1 states that the village of Ržiste is deleted and that the same settlement that is not Ržiće but Eržiste belongs to the Municipality of Kršan to the Municipality of St. Sunday. In the final proposal of the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia, in Article 21, in the description of municipalities of 12. Krsan listed the name of the village Ržiste. The exact name of the settlement is Eržiće. In addition to the correction on behalf of the settlement to be conducted and in reality located on the Municipality of Saint Sunday, which I am confirming in my own acts and in this proposal. And this is the decision of the Municipality of Kršan, the decision of the Municipal Council of the Council of Sunday, the Agreement on the Borders between the Municipality of Kršan and the Municipality of the Council Sunday, the conclusion of the Assembly of the Istrian County, the opinion of the State Geodetic Administration, the District Office for the Katastre Pazin and the map of the catastra. I note, in particular, that the amendments I submitted to the proposal of the Law on County, City and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law, which has been submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 3 March 2005 were adopted by the Croatian Parliament by my amendment, but the law did not receive the necessary majority. Dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs, I expect this House to accept this bill in view of the arguments and thus legally confirm life on the ground. And I thank all the MPs and MPs who have signed this bill, including the representatives' clubs, and even their presidents. In particular, I can say that virtually all the clubs of MPs participated, and so did Mr. President Luka Bebić, president of the HDZ Club of Representatives. I expect Mr. Secretary of State to have this law really and legally passed into life on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60061	Thank you. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. Government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60062	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well very briefly, a few sentences on behalf of the SDP club. As Col. Poirot said on behalf of the promoter, this is about one situation where it is formally necessary only to confirm the situation that really exists on the ground, and that this is the very fact that we have accepted an emergency procedure in determining the agenda, so we were in agreement and the position and opposition that this law is going according to an emergency procedure, and at least it's strange for me, and it's completely inexplicable to me, in which way the negative opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia came, if the majority club agreed both in some way and in each other's contacts given this support, because it's really about one law I say, which formally needs to confirm that state that life is on... and who really exist in the field. [[You don't understand.]] The Government's interpretation that she accepted amendments by her colleagues Poropato and me last March of the month as I recall, but at that time it was one I would say a more thorough amendment to the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and normally that such a proposal puts into the same plane, in the same basket that I would say to the People's Dictionary what is clear to all and unequivocally which has support with something that is controversial and which is not the assumptions that the law has prescribed and now put all of this into the same plane, it is normal that it is difficult to get the majority that is needed. Because as far as memory does not deceive me, in March last year we discussed in the same package, for example, the Municipality of Tar Vabriga, the municipality that had a positive opinion of the City Council of Porca and the Istra County Assembly and the positive opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the projection of the budget of 7 million kuna, and we put into the same plane with the proposal for the separation of part of Slavonski Brod in the Municipality of Podvinja, we put it in the same line with the proposal that the Municipality of Vinodolska, those settlements and villages of Briber, the Grižana separation from Vinodol, which was not entirely illogical, and was not even respected in the whole procedure, and that I did not say about the area of Lopar which was also a requirement for the establishment of the new municipality of the island of Rab, where certain legal assumptions were also not met, and was not now being put into the same amount of this proposal, which was not accepted by the document. I'm afraid, and I'm almost sure if we don't go to adoption like this, I'd say part by piece, that we're going to have a hard time changing the law as the government has said, sanctioning actually this real factical state that exists on the ground. Not to mention, the SDP club will vote in favour of this bill sent by counterpart Poropat. We've accepted an emergency procedure, and I don't see any reason why we shouldn't say it today or Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60063	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60064	Dear Mr. President, just a few draft laws that are repeated speak up to be fully resolved in a way that... sees exactly as the Croatian Government points out, not the controversial proposals of the law. There are now five or six of them in the process. For example, and now ahead of us where he would agree with his colleague, Porpot, just before he spoke, but in the light of this proposal, the law is wrongly cited, for example. The municipality, i.e. the village of the municipality in question, is always missing this "e", so the overall and thorough regulation of these laws is best done exactly in a way that all things are seen, not that from case to case we ask for changes and complements, then we will have 500, we will not be able to manage them, and for the daily use of lawyers, to those who serve such laws we will not be able to do anything more than lose ourselves in the sea of law. For example, the same thing as the colleague mentioned earlier is wrongly stating spatial plans that it will not be possible to be adopted in time if it does not comply, but the spatial plans are always independently made for the area... as is the city or county and that is no excuse nor reason for such laws to be amended. What we should point out is that more and more and more decisive importance is precisely the municipalities, cities and counties that should always in any case solve these things in a modern nomotechnical way, and not just in cases where it is sought because in a particular case it is necessary to satisfy a very specific municipality, the city, or settlement. Therefore, I am always in favour of what the Government has proposed, that at this point it would not be possible to pass such drafts of the law, but it must be regulated by the whole system, and I believe that there will then be more thorough changes and additions not only to those which the promoters are looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60065	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60066	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, I'd like to replicate to my dear colleague Peronji the following way. Namely, you, my colleague Peronja and I also know as well that each unit of local self-government is specific in its own way. So we can't put in the same plane, here's the community that this fellow Poirot was talking about. Whether we put the City of Slavonski Brod, whether we put the municipality of Vinodolska or I don't know Zaton or maybe Lopar village on the island of Rab. So we can't consider it in a package to be objective, to pass a law that objectively articulates the interests of all these local units in a just and just way. already, by refusing such a proposal, which is obvious, logical, has passed the entire legal procedure and by announcing the writing of a whole law that will cover those municipalities that did not get a pass last year in this House is actually a bargain as we have otherwise witnessed. With various political structures and interest groups on the ground primarily, I am stressing primarily from the HDZ miles.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60067	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60068	Here, right now he was a colleague and he was working, I would say, the charms of local self-government as a former mayor but that is exactly what he requires, despite what fellow Poirot emphasized, that one village should come from one municipality to another, and the previous bill of law in which I could not participate because of more force says: "The Commission, and the Commission, and another 4.5 of these same things require". It is better in an entirely complete and certainly not because of anything but because of the modern, nomotechnical nature that all these issues that practically bring daily problems are arranged through the whole system. Not because other municipalities would grow. I'm not into creating new municipalities, it's my position from before because often these newly created municipalities don't have any funds, at least it's for funds. But they do not have people who will be responsible as chiefs and who will take care of the development of these newly created municipalities and cities. Not only of the thousands of people, but of the two, they have no basic assumptions in the personnel, educated personnel. At least they know something in any way. Or a good winemaker, a good fisherman, but we don't have that either.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60069	Thank you. Proposer of the Law, Honorable Representative Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60070	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I believe that since the HDZ Club hasn't heard from him, I believe that what Mr. Representative said is a respected Crown Peronja, his personal opinion. Namely, I am saying this because I would not like the Municipality of St. Sunday, or the municipality of Kršan, to be the victims of some other questionable, under quotes, tomorrow new municipalities or the crossing of the borders of some municipalities or cities. And that's what I'm saying for very reasoned reasons, which have passed all the instances. So, one municipality whose territory is legally located today is Eržiste village, the first to decide on its council that it is right that the settlement of Eržiste belongs to the neighbouring municipality because life is going on as well. So this community that accepted this settlement, which belongs to it, also has its own decision of the municipal council. In order to confirm this once again, these two municipalities have an agreement that is in favour of the settlement precisely by these decisions of the councils of one and the other municipalities really belong to the municipality of the Council of Sunday, which has also been reached in its conclusion by the assembly of the Istrian County. And what I must mention once again, that since I spoke to HDZ representatives and the president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Bebić, who also signed this bill along with my colleague, I think there is a problem between the central management office and the HDZ club. For what? I would hate to see just the municipalities of St. Sunday and the municipalities of Krsan be the victim of one perhaps insufficient communication between these two institutions that I mentioned. The reason is, there's a real reason in the field, and there's also a reason in the documentation and in the procedure that went through to get this bill passed. There are absolutely no coincidences in anyone's favor. However, the adoption of this law would only allow for the adoption of a law tomorrow, which will be referred to by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in some general form tomorrow. But I believe that here, where everything is clear or completely aligned, I am pleased to see Mr. Vice President Bebic come in as well. I believe this proposal of the law will be accepted as given in the proposal. And to mutilate what life on the ground really means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60071	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas. The Proposer of the Law is agent Valter Poropat. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. The law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs. At least 77 votes in favour. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. ... Let the gentlemen ask what law, right? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Great, great. Some will vote on it and it will come to the vote that his head was cut off that he didn't even have. The result? 35 votes for, 7 abstentions, 60 against. The majority of votes required for this Law were not adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60074	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to explain in short lines the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Water and Health Protocol with the 1992 Convention on the Protection of the Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes. As a full party to the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes, the Republic of Croatia adopted the activities set out on 1. The Conference of Parties held in 1997 in Helsinki. In accordance with the above, the Protocol on Water and Health signed in London on 17 June 1999. The Republic of Croatia ratified the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes, which came into force in 1998. The Republic of Croatia is aware that water represents a basic element and a condition for maintaining life and that water security is in sufficient quantity and quality to meet basic human needs a prerequisite for ensuring and improving human health and for meeting sustainable development. This Protocol extends and complements the provisions of the Convention by additional measures to ensure quality and hygiene proper drinking water, improving sanitary measures, protecting water from pollution and strengthening public health. The objective of this Protocol is to encourage and ensure national cross-border international frameworks, to protect human health through improving water management, water protection, prevention and control of water-related diseases. The Parties to the Protocol will undertake to take the necessary measures and activities to meet that objective by applying the best methods in the management of all waters and by taking sanitary measures and protecting all water used for drinking, food production and recreation. The activities resulting from the Protocol shall be in line with the water management and water management and management strategies as well as the conservation and protection of water resources. For all of these reasons, I propose to the Croatian Parliament and the MPs to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60075	Thank you. Would the committee reporter like a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60076	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the World Water Day, declared 10 years ago by the United Nations Assembly with the desire to point to the problems of supplying water to the entire globe where more than 40% of the population has no water or has serious water problems. Well, here we are, I hope we all join together with the working marking of that day by discussing the proposal of this Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Health and Water. ... Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waters and International Lakes among us experts called so-called "The Cross" The Helsinki Convention was adopted in 1992 by most European countries, and as Mr. Minister said here, the Republic of Croatia adopted the Helsinki Convention in early 1996 and, of course, signed this Protocol on Water in London on 17 June 1999. Given the specific geographical and hydrographic position of our homeland compared to the neighbouring countries, the 1992 Helsinki Convention is a very important international treaty for us. Through its consistent implementation, we have improved our legislative regulation and improved water management. Health care for the quality of drinking water to protect health in Croatia has been organized for 60 years. Dr. Crescent. Andrija Štrampar founded a school of folk health in Zagreb, which today teaches staff for public health purposes. The organisation of public health services in Croatia has served the United Nations Assembly as a model for the establishment of the World Health Organization, and Dr. Andrija Štrampar is appointed the first president of the organization. Day in the Republic of Croatia Water quality care for health protection is carried out very successfully by the Croatian Institute of Public Health through the central service in Zagreb and outposts throughout the Republic of Croatia. In addition, I am obliged to remind myself that occasionally we have problems with water quality because in some places the problem of jaundice occurs frequently, and still in Slavonski Brod, part of the population, due to lack of quality water, has serious problems with kidney disease. Our 1996 Water Act is in line with the Helsinki Convention. This Protocol extends and complements the provisions of the Helsinki Convention with additional measures to ensure and strengthen public health through improving water management, protecting water systems, preventing and curbing water-related diseases in national and international frameworks. All parties to this Protocol have committed themselves to the following. Ensure access to water for everyone and provide sanitary measures for everyone. In order to meet those objectives, apply the best methods in the management of all waters and take sanitary measures and protect the protection of all types of water used for drinking, food production and for recreation purposes. The provisions of this Protocol shall apply to all surface waters, rivers, lakes and bars, groundwater, river mouths, coastal waters used for recreation or for fish farming in aquaculture or for the cultivation or harvesting of shells, fenced waters generally intended for bathing, water during capture, purification, transport or delivery, or as we call them already drinking water, wastewater in the collection of transport, treatment, release or reuse. By taking measures to implement this Regulation, the Parties shall respect the known principles of water management and health protection from which only a few of them would be pointed out. First, the principle of precaution in the prevention and reduction of water-related diseases, the polluter pays principle at which the costs of prevention of control and reduction of pollution are borne by the polluter. The principle of sustainable development. In accordance with the Charters of the United Nations and the principles of international law, States have a sovereign right to exploit their own resources according to their own environment and development policy and responsibility for activities that take place within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage in the environment of other countries or areas beyond the limits of their jurisdiction. This is especially important for us because none of our large water streams have a source in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, all of them are in our neighbouring countries. All parties to the Protocol shall take measures through local state and supervisory systems to identify the significant threats to water-related epidemics and diseases or extreme weather-related diseases in due time and to establish an early alert system and draw up emergency plans and ensure response capacities. The parties are obliged to assist each other on border and cross-border waters in order to prevent, combat and reduce cross-border consequences and water-related diseases. The dispute settlement between the parties shall be governed by Article 20 of this Protocol. Disputes should primarily be settled through negotiations or any other way to resolve disputes acceptable to both parties, including an international court. This Protocol came into force because it was ratified by 16 parties and instruments of ratification were deposited with the Secretary General of the United Nations. And in the end, I would point out the following. By signing the Protocol and by confirming it, the Republic of Croatia expresses its determination to preserve its own natural resources and implement the constitutional principle of the right of all its citizens to a healthy life. I therefore believe that confirming the Protocol on Water and Health is of interest to our country. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60077	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60078	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, honourable vice presidents and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We will certainly support this protocol in the Club of the Croatian People's Party because it is necessary, necessary and as a member of the United Nations I want to believe that someone participated in the preparation and work of this Protocol on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, as is the case with all international documents. Members, in particular those who have joined or ratified an individual convention, shall be able to participate in their work. In my explanation, I found no information on who therefore participated in the work of the protocol on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, it would always be necessary for me and useful information. But I have also looked at a little convention concerning this protocol and what is particularly important to me, and these are Articles 12 and 13 of the Protocol and Article 9 of the Convention itself, which discusses bilateral or multilateral co-operation of implementation and of conventions and protocols. So when several states have shared water streams, whether it's lakes, underground waters or rivers, how they should cooperate, what are the obligations of one partner to another partner and what is the goal of all of this. The text in parliaments is ratification. So the content debate is unnecessary but I answered for two reasons. First, to welcome the fact that Croatia is following and will follow the protocols on this Convention as well as others that are well. And secondly, to warn that the ratification itself or the adoption of the Law on the adoption of the accompanying protocol for the State does not have any value, absolutely no value if we do not follow the implementation. But not only in Croatia, but also in those countries which have certain obligations to Croatia under this Convention or protocol. So it is a document whose implementation and quality of implementation are not only necessary in Croatia and we can have consequences because some others do not do so properly. Just as we on our waterways can do something that might or may not bother those countries that are at the end of those streams. So this protocol takes over part of our obligations, our international water management obligations. I'm sure this convention and this protocol certainly apply to both Mura and Drava and Sava. I mentioned these three rivers because they have one thing in common, they come from neighbouring Slovenia and Drava and Sava go on. There's one thing that brought me personally into a great chill, in suspense, and twenty days ago I asked that question to the prime minister, I haven't received an answer yet, and apparently I've asked the Minister of Agriculture, and now I realize that it's his portfolio, and maybe I'd already got the answer, so maybe he can answer me. It's about the next one. The government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted on December 29th and announced the Regulation on the granting of concessions for the construction of eight hydropower plants on the Mura River, eight. The first one's on, they call it Sentilion. It's not likely in the town of Šentilje or at the border crossing and the last one's called Verjej. That... The Mura river is 6.5 kilometers away from Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the Mura River, the river Mura 6.5km is the last location of the eighth hydropower plant. This Regulation and the technical characteristics Annexes shall therefore give concessions. You don't know who's gonna be a concessionist. Is it the Slovenian Elektroprivreda or another? Not necessarily from Slovenia, not necessarily from Slovenia. It has technical requirements and settings with minimum and maximum flow of water along the river after construction. To understand the causes of concern, this is a map of the Međimurje County and the south you see three artificial lakes that already exist. It's the Varazdin Hydropower Plant, the Chakovec and Dubrava. The location of this Slovenian eighth is this purple strip. And the border between Croatia and Slovenia is just below it. These other 4 purple dots are possible locations of hydropower plants on the Mura River from the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia and the programme of energy development of the Republic of Croatia by 2015. How will the Slovenian regulation and the construction of the hydrocenters on Mura be realized and if Croatia builds these 4 by 2015 as long as this spatial plan looks like Međimurje? I'm asking... So I ask if the Croatian Government knows whether the Croatian Government has informed the Croatian Government in the concession regulation and prepares for the start of these 8 hydropower plants on a river that is the border river between Croatia and Slovenia and which has a major impact on the quality of life in Međimurje. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether we have the opportunity to say our opinions under this Convention and Protocol, ask for an indication and try to prevent such a devastation on the waterway. And final. Did the Republic of Croatia start doing an environmental impact study after the Republic of Slovenia made 8 hydrocentres on Mura from Šentilj to Veržej? This seems ridiculous to you now. This seems to you to intimidate the distant future. But living in a place where every 10 kilometers is an artificial lake and lake of the Dubrava hydropower plant is the fifth largest in Croatia from natural and artificial lakes, fifth in size. Around the lake and canals, which are artificial interventions in the area where 120 thousand people dwell and no one has to date official information or relationship especially on the Slovenian side. And I'm going back to my protocol confirmation sentence, formal matter. Whether this protocol enables us to, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans or is already just that we don't know what it did to make sure that the water supply of Mura can be used by the Republic of Croatia water as it is. The way he is. Or it's something else. I wish all my fears were completely baseless. That the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia of these 4 locations will be deleted and will never be built. And these are the locations of Mursko Središce, Poturen, Goric and Kotoriba. I wish I was wrong that this Verežej as the eighth Slovenian headquarters would not come to the courtyards of our people's houses in the St. Martin municipality of Mura. The Police Centre, the Selnica. And it won't have any effect on the quality of life on this side of the border. But I cannot accept the fact that international contracts exist, and Slovenia has ratified them. And to question Slovenian journalists, to question Slovenian journalists, what Croatia says about the construction of these 8 hydropower plants. The responsible person on the Slovenian side said, "There will be nothing, but what would the southern neighbours be asking me about?" There'll be nothing to drink my southern neighbors to. This was published by the Slovenian media, that quote. The deadline for applying to, for these concessions has expired. The Slovenian government may have already awarded concessions, I don't know. Kindly beg if anyone knows the answer and if you can give us information about fate on me, allow me, don't mind me but one rude move to go... in Slovenia without talking to our country, without any information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No prior information. And the proposal to establish possible consequences for joint studies on Croatia's territory for cross-border river operations that should be used together. Then I can't call it anything else. They owe us answers. They owe us answers from those from Ljubljana, and the Croatian Government owes us answers in Međimurje. And this isn't politics or political play. Hydropower is not politics. But correct information, accurate information and prevention believe me, I hope you agree with me is what the citizens of Croatia have the right to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60079	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60080	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation that the esteemed colleague that Sava and Drava are still going on. Sava yes, but Drava is poured into the Danube in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid I don't have a ticket to show you now. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60081	The club of representatives of the HSS esteemed representative Ivan Kolar... The intruders don't understand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, vice presidents and ministers. Allow me on behalf of the HSS Club to present a few of our observations. As Mr. Lesar said, I could express my fears and frustrations about Drava, but I refer to him as the one that the public actually knows everything already, the public must be informed and participate in this public could be prevented and at least channeled in a certain direction so as not to make some possible misunderstandings appear. So the HSS Club will support the signing of this protocol. Finally, we have to admit he's in effect because he's already ratified by 16 states, and that's how he got into effect. But let me make some of our views known. We know that water is a basic element and a condition for maintaining life, and that water security is in sufficient quantity and quality a prerequisite for ensuring and improving both human health and for fulfilling sustainable development in general. It is already mentioned today when we mark the meaning of March 22, World Water Day, we should say that we have talked a lot about water in this House, its significance, its management, and its preservation lately. I recall at the end of last year we brought in two important documents from this area, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Law and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act. In last session of the Parliament, we discussed the Water Management Strategy. Although we did not bring it, it was already accepted in the first reading. We're discussing this protocol today. Not by chance because this was a prerequisite, these laws, that we could generally discuss this protocol because we have to adapt. All this speaks of water as a resource for every country, and so for ours, in our Constitution I only remind it has the status of a national treasure. So there's a verdict of strategic importance. And as already mentioned in the proposal for the above-mentioned strategy, which I believe will soon be discussed in the second reading, water is a unique and irreplaceable natural resource of limited quantities and unbalanced spatial time distributions. From the fact that all life forms and all human activities are more or less related to water, the importance of water relations and the meaning of the documents governing this relationship is clear. Economic development and urbanisation lead from one side to a huge increase in water demand, and from the other to the threat of water resources and the aquatic environment. Water can thus become a limiting factor in the development and threat to human health and sustainability of natural ecosystems. The overall international cooperation of the Republic of Croatia on the water sector is regulated by the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Streams and International Lakes of '92. a year, or rather a Hague convention. Otherwise, the Republic of Croatia ratified the said Convention and entered into force in '98. and signed the '99 Protocol on Water and Health as a full party. the years in London, and thus committed itself, it is important that they take the measures and activities of the Protocol. So this is not only protocol, but also obligations and rights and measures to be taken. These measures relate primarily to the prevention, prevention and reduction of water-related diseases within integrated water economy systems aimed at sustainable use of water resources, water quality in an environment that does not endanger human health, and the protection of aquatic ecosystems. And to remind you, this protocol refers to surface, sweet water, groundwater, river mouths, coastal waters used for recreation or for fish farming, fenced water, water during capture, transport, treatment, or wastewater delivery. This protocol that we have before us and that we need to confirm puts before our country as a signator of certain principles and approaches that must be respected. The precautionary principle on which the action to prevent and reduce water-related diseases should not be delayed. So, we now accept in the finale and we must implement a certain, first principle of precaution, further principle of contaminant... which we have installed previous laws in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law of the state have the modern right to exploit their own resources according to their own policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Environment and development policy with water resources, which is very important. It must be discussed in a way that meets the needs of the present generation without prejudice to the possibility of meeting the needs of future generations. So we don't want to use one resource but we have to save it for future generations. Preventive actions should be taken to avoid epidemics. Certain cases have already been referred to as water-related and water-based resources used as drinking water sources. Otherwise, access to water resources should be managed fully on the basis of water areas in order to bind social economic development to the protection of natural ecosystems, and coordination of water management resources for legal measures relating to other environmental media. Such an integrated approach should be applied throughout the water area. It is not worth one area of protection, the other to devast, whether it is cross-border or not, and here as a party to this Protocol the states and our ministries have a significant share. And all of this must be consistent with the management of legal measures and followed by legal measures relating to other environmental media. Otherwise, the protocol sets out the objectives of access to drinking water for everyone and ensures that it is accessible to everyone and providing sanitary measures for all in the framework of an integrated water economy system aimed at the sustainable use of water resources, aimed at the quality of water in an environment that does not endanger human health and the protection of aquatic ecosystems. A party or state must set and publish national and local objectives, as the protocol directly imposes on the State as foreigners because it is an equal partner. So, national local targets relating to the quality of the supplied drinking water, reducing the scope of epidemics and cases of water-related diseases, the size of the territory, the size of the share of the population to be served, the common sanitary systems, the level of efficiency of the system, the application of a recognised good practice to water supply management, and what is important by draining, wastewater release, and, in particular, the quality of exhaust water from the treatment plant, which, by the way, only mention has a very small share of our own, and our residents can use, and this is now an imperative, removal or reuse of sewers from the common systems of the resuscitation, efficiency of the system for the management, development, protection and use of water resources, the frequency of publishing of information on the quality of the water delivered for drinking that we miss more times, and we actually have no insight into it. In order to promote the achievement of the objectives of the parties or states, national or local arrangements should be established, and water-economic plans should be developed that we expect after the strategy. A party or state should establish and maintain a legal institutional framework for the monitoring and forced implementation of drinking water quality standards. So it's not enough just to get a regulation, it's supposed to be forced to maintain it, so everyone's following those standards. The Protocol further provides that the Party should collect and evaluate the data of the achievement of those objectives. So it is expected in a three-year period to monitor the implementation of the protocol of the intended objectives and these of our projects that are subject to talks, agreements, because the talks as a party go and have no goals I don't think is necessary. On the basis of this data collection and evaluation, each party shall periodically revise progress towards achieving the objectives. It shall be determined that each party, within three years of obtaining the status of the party, should ensure the establishment, improvement or maintenance of such comprehensive state or local surveillance systems and early alert systems in order to enable identification of possible epidemics, occurrences of water-related diseases and the making of urgent and clear reports of such epidemics. Measures are being taken to promote public information which so far knows how and how accessible, education, vocational education, scientific research, development and information are being established. This is really not a protocol for protocol, but this protocol imposes obligations, a lot of programmes and clear goals that the state or local community must set. Finally, it should be said, with the World Water Day marking that the HSS will support the adoption of this law, as confirming this Protocol allows all measures and activities of the same, all in order to protect human health through adequate water management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60083	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60084	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President of the Government. Water resources must be managed in a way that meets the needs of the present generation without prejudice to the possibility of meeting the needs of future generations. This item of the principle and access to this Protocol may best outline and explain the objective of this Protocol in general, which is to encourage at all appropriate levels in national and cross-border and international contexts of health and well-being protection and individual and common in the framework of sustainable development through the improvement of the water economy, which includes water eco-systems and by preventing and reducing the presence of water-related diseases. In recent months, this House has discussed topics related to this or similar problem, which only confirms the determination of the Republic of Croatia to pay close attention to these and important issues and to address them with all and in line with all the international obligations that arise from this. It is true that water resources are renewable, but often time-limited, the time factor here is quite present or as the protocol says, to meet human needs and to protect the environment is essential to sustainable management of the hydrological cycle. A significant factor in these issues is the constant monitoring of the quantity and quality of surface freshwater, groundwater, river mouths, coastal waters and fenced bathing waters. The concept of cross-border waters does not only apply to surface waters, which could be concluded by intruding, but also to groundwater. The example of Zagreb, so-called The following rivers compared to Sava in shallow layers confirm this as well as deeper layers in one part of Slavonia. There, deeper water layers crossing the border of the state are a common phenomenon, not only in the area of Slavonia, in the area of the entire Pannonian plain. When it comes to the Republic of Croatia, even the question of potential dangers by nuclear power plants located upstream in neighbouring countries, Slovenia and Hungary cannot be avoided. It is therefore necessary to operate successful monitoring and quality assessment networks related to water, development of the database, etc. and certainly is an important factor in international and interlaboratory comparability. Maybe just one last thing. Three of our rivers, Drava, Sava and Danube were sang in our anthem, of course our seas. All these three rivers come from neighbouring or far from other countries, so here we have this, apart from the practical and sentimental reason for these rivers to be modelly arranged for us on the picture and for an opportunity with all the care they deserve. The sea should not be specifically spoken of but only be careful and agreed with the neighbours on avoiding all possible risks to general well-being and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60085	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60086	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will be very brief and I would say at the beginning only two information you probably all know, that Croatia is in Europe about the amount and wealth of water in third place. That Croatia is among the 30 richest countries on this planet about the amount of water, which is extremely important data and data that speak about how we can and should plan a strategy for any part of our development. A large part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been drinking extremely healthy water, it has been so for decades. Although it is mentioned here today that there are several points where this water is not a special quality. This is especially happening in the summer, and it seems to me that Croatian waters do indeed do everything together with local and regional self-government to be rehabilitated, and I would also say rare places where water is not the right quality. Therefore, for every commendation, Croatia belongs to the order of countries with the best quality water and our citizens are indeed drinking the best water in this part of the world. But are there any problems to be said and spoken of? There is. There are six areas that I would like to mention here that I think we use inadequately, and we should certainly do it much more and much more effectively. What's this about? Here's one area: tourism, other agriculture, third health care, fourth export, energy, concessioning. Just a few sentences about each of these possibilities where I, as a citizen of this country, see that it takes a lot more and can be done a lot more. Tourism. Have you ever been, colleagues and colleagues, to a fair, a tourist fair in Europe where the Croatian tourist community said come to Croatia, in Croatia you will be able to drink water from every tap. It's our greatest fortune. No one has ever said that in the tourist promotion of our country, and this should be one of the prime moments of our tourist promotion. Do you trust me, colleagues? Wherever you come into the world you must enter the store, buy a bottle of water and drink it during your visit. Croatia is one of the few countries where you can behave significantly differently and unfortunately we do not know how to use it. There was plenty of talk about irrigation. And last year, the minister talked about it, which is being taken, and it certainly takes a lot, a lot more to do. A land so rich in water, lying on so many rivers, and unfortunately when it doesn't rain, we have great difficulties. It's embarrassing, it's unusual, it's unnecessary and there's sure we can and we need to do a lot, a lot more. As far as health and health problems are concerned, I have to say that there is one problem that we are not sufficiently talking about, which is a question of salon pipes that still exist in many parts of our country and serve as pipes for drinking water. So are the salon roofs that collect the water from which the water goes into the tanker. The paronite is extremely rich in asbestos, asbestos is carcinogenic, and we're doing what? Almost nothing to replace those pipes, almost nothing to help the citizens to warn them and help replace those roofs, especially if they use drinking water. Therefore, in this segment, the ministry must do much, much more to help citizens to try to overcome this very serious health problem. Fourth, export. France earns billions and billions of kuna by exporting its own water. We all know about Evian, we all know about a series of their waters, we all know about Radenska, and Croatia's third by the wealth of water in Europe, nobody knows any water. As much as we earn by exporting water, I'd say absolutely not enough. We are not making enough to take it out, to produce it, to clearly place it on world markets because it deserves to absolutely enter into the order of the highest-quality waters offered on the world's water market. Energy. That's what my colleague Drago Lesar was talking about. I can only add that in many countries, especially when it comes to smaller rivers in mountain areas, then mini power plants, especially in one Switzerland and other countries are very popular. They meet a large part of the energy needs of the population there. And clearly there is energy policy, there is incentive, there is helping these citizens, these local communities to install and use such mini power plants. Unfortunately, that part of us is certainly not energy used enough. And finally, concessioning. I am sure that there should be much more organisation and coordination between the state authorities and the regional community when it comes to concessions. Water must not be yours or mine, colleagues and colleagues. The water must remain ours forever. Thank you very much. I don't want to elaborate any further. I thought I made it perfectly clear that in these six areas we still have a lot of work to do and I ask the Minister and the Government to think about these possibilities of water use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60087	Thank you. HDZ club, five-minute debate. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60088	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the debate that is being held here in our Parliament on the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol, and I would like to clarify and present our views from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. The concern expressed by our colleague Lesar from Međimurje is well justified by the behavior of our northern neighbours. But it is not only visible on this water stream, but it is also visible on the Sava River, and also on the maintenance of the border waterways from the river Dragonja via Sutla, Kupa and here on Mura. On Mura, which my colleague did not mention and I know very well that Slovenian businessmen are exploiting gravel from our side that our police are working on it all the time, but behold, gentlemen are still doing it and paying the fines. It means that some things in Mura and around the border waterways will have to be handled differently. What I would like to emphasize in particular is that upstream from, say, the City of Zagreb, there is a nuclear nuclear power plant called Krško on the Sava River. That it is located in Hungary on the Danube River 60km of Danube, and 40km of air lines from Osijek also a nuclear power plant in Paksh. And that the provisions of this Protocol actually clarify the provisions of the Helsinki Convention and oblige the Member States and parties in this Protocol to be very serious. Because the consequences here are for nuclear energy, and if anything happens in any of these two plants, they'll primarily feel that country where it happens, but they'll feel it in those upstream. Here, let's say that there's a hararium in Krško Zagreb is finished with drinking water because we don't know and we don't know the technological processes that would cleanse radioactively polluted water to bring it to the level of drinking and quality water. Here's why we at the HDZ Club think this is a very important protocol for us to sign. That we should comply with the adopted provisions because tomorrow we will meet in a community with countries where laws are respected, and so we must act and therefore it is very important to create a legal national regulation, and to accept this international regulation so that we from our neighbours too, and also to our neighbours in water management in ensuring healthy and drinking water for people, but also to hand these waters over to our neighbours in such a way that it is useful for them too, and that it can meet their needs. We are in the position that the signing of this Convention is in the interest of this Protocol, i.e. the adoption of a law confirming the Protocol in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and that is why we will support it to adopt this law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60089	Thank you very much. Final review, Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60090	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me in the final review first of all to thank all the MPs who participated in this debate. Yes, today it is little and symbolic that just on Water Day we are discussing the confirmation of this Protocol which I hold to be one, I would say a very good thing and the debate that has been going on in any case was extremely good, constructive and I would say well-intentioned in the direction of doing certain efforts to preserve what we hold very important, and that is to preserve our water. Yes, one of the main tasks of all of us right now must be to work and do and to make the most of our efforts to make this our natural wealth, which is not very little, with which Croatia is very abundant anyway, to preserve it so as not to give us the God of some pollution. It is in this context that it is also joining certain conventions and signing certain protocols that regulate it in one way I would say to the international plan. It is not a problem that can be solved within our borders because the fact, it has been a lot of talk that our main water streams practically all major waterways do not spring in Croatia, they come to Croatia, and by the circumstances a good part of them and goes away and Croatia. So you can't think of any state, not a single part of a country as a single segment, but rather you have to work coordinatedly. And I say in this context and therefore the Republic of Croatia and sign these conventions, it becomes members of international institutions that want to make it a common force to preserve water as a basis I would say all the development and life in certain areas. It is true that Mr. MP pointed out that sometimes we do not speak aphimatically enough about what both quality and water protection were done in the Republic of Croatia. So I agree that we should point out in the tourist offer that Croatia is a country where water can be drank from the words of taps or taps as we say what we say for sure that it would certainly mean to those who come here in I would say promotion and different thinking about the Republic of Croatia. And here's what I'm saying again, thank you to all the MPs who participated in the debate, and I'm having the debate as affirmatively as possible. I would also like to stress that, as part of our Water Economy Administration, we are very much taking care of water conservation and water protection, and I would also like to stress that the accession of international institutions and the signing of conventions is precisely in the context of an international, international water protection. What else to say about Mr. Lesar's enquiries? I can only say that the normal answer came to our ministry, arrived at the Water Economy Administration and that the answer was made up, written, forwarded to the government and expected to receive Mr. Lesar's answer these days. I can say here that this is also about one convention, the Framework Convention on Waters, which is responsible for considering this issue, and in any case we are very much taking care of not only the area in the Republic of Croatia but what is happening and what may have an impact, have consequences on the Republic of Croatia. And I therefore thank everyone once again and ask the parliamentary representatives to accept this proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Water and Health Protocol with the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60091	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there should now be a debate on the final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Today, the committee has taken its opinion, but it is a law of extreme importance and importance so that I would not now begin to argue with this Law and continue tomorrow at 9:30 with this debate and with then all the other points of the agenda, but with tomorrow we have extended time to 22 hours because we have quite a few topics. ... The law on textbooks for elementary and high school, tomorrow we start at 9:30, then the search report, all the way up the agenda. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Resume tomorrow at 9:30. Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Water and Health with the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes of 92. The amendment was submitted by representative Marko Širac. Secretary of State Herman Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60093	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-22-0.u60094	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 102 votes in favor. Unanimity passed the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. On the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools, second reading, P.Z. No. 363 The legislator is the Government. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, education, science and culture. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative State Secretary Nevio Šetić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
