ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55300	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Before I say our court is interested in us at the Croatian Party club right to answer certain questions. The co-operation agreement was said to be signed means between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on 27 May 2002. So, is the same situation as that agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Turkey that got lost. It's obvious, because now it's four years old. Where was this agreement? It means from May 27, 2002. Where was he? I'm looking for an answer on behalf of the Croatian party of rights club. We know what the case was, even the late Minister Gojko Sušak and the deceased... they signed an agreement on military co-operation with Turkey and then we only discussed it in 2004 at the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this seems to be a rather unserious situation, and the agreement signed on behalf of the Croatian government even Jozo Rados. So, in 2002, in May, and we get that agreement, here's only now and in an emergency procedure. We're still interested in how the translation was done. That this agreement was concluded in '89. I'd kind of know. In fact, the article first and second mentions the term "enterprises". Look, the term "enterprises" is mentioned in this agreement. So we're looking for these answers. Normally, we're going to support this kind of cooperation proposal, but obviously there's something that someone has to say and be responsible for why, let's say, this agreement was in someone's drawer for four years, and why it hasn't been translated, we know that we don't have "enterprises" have "socials," we can, but we don't have "enterprises" anymore. And I'm saying, it's a good thing we got Mr. At least today because both yesterday's and yesterday's debate showed one important thing. In fact, it revealed that the false thesis that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were merely a budgetary burden. In fact, the debate proved that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia if they are modernised, if they are equipped and trained not to be a burden but are a cornerstone of the development of Croatia's economics, and in particular in this part of military weapons military equipment of the military industry. So we'll support it, but we're looking for answers to these questions so it doesn't happen to us again. That's what we said when it was that deal with Turkey that Mrs. Zeljko Antunovic managed to find at the end of her term, and it always happened because they were visiting Turkey and they asked what was wrong with the agreement. That's the situation here, I don't know now because President Shakespeare was in Ukraine or any other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55301	In Ukraine, there was a Croatian parliamentary delegation and led both talks and negotiations. She was the host of Mrs. Gordana Sobol, the head of the Croatian-Ukrainian friendship society of MPs. Representative Nikola Mak, on behalf of the Russian community, Ms Nevenka Majdenic, we spoke and held talks with both the President of Parliament and the Minister of Government and the President of Foreign Affairs and the President of the State, only to let you know, because our HTV did not publish it in the "Dnevnik" that was not the news. So... In Ukraine, we looked at it, we observed, we did not have the opportunity and the time to see that we have also concluded certain agreements and that we have obtained guarantees from all state officials from the president of the state, the government, the foreign minister to the President of Parliament, parliamentary representatives on guarantees for and military-technical cooperation certain but also for timely delivery of gas. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Does the State Secretary perhaps want to publish, explain this reason since May of the signing? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55302	Thank you, Mr. President. I therefore argue, regardless of the point of view which is partly in place by the representatives, that this is an agreement that is necessary because it promotes and gives the right framework to create concrete cooperation in the field, in the defence area and in the field of military-technical cooperation for partners, legal persons, organisations and other participants in this cooperation. But here's the thing. What's taking so long? One of these conditions was also recently adopted by the Data Protection Act, since this agreement implies that military-technical cooperation is involved in the exchange of military projects, the exchange, mutual exchange of documentation relating to military development and that countries and natural and legal persons participating in such cooperation and exchanges are bound by the protection of data by both sides and we, until we have secured that legal framework, which is the Data Protection Act which defined the procedures and methods of data protection, have not been obtained, we have not provided all the necessary conditions for the implementation of this Agreement, which is one of the reasons why we have waited so long. Here, that would be the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55303	Okay. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55304	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, Croatia has since 90th had regulated protection of classified information and military and secret and state secrets and all other secrets. So that can't be the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55305	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on military-technical cooperation. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 100 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55310	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In the application of the Exclusion Act, certain difficulties have arisen which have resulted in uncertainty in the legal traffic of real estate, and therefore this proposal has been made to amend and supplement the Law on Exclusion, which would contribute primarily to the security of the legal traffic of real estate through the introduction of the Institute of Audit and an objective deadline for repealing the rightful authorisation solution, but have been amended and some other existing normative solutions have been complemented. In the existing law, the launch of the extradition procedure was still based on the conditions of spatial, spatial arrangements and how, under the Law on Spatial Planning, the conditions of arrangement of space as an institute no longer exist, there is no longer a local authorisation, that is, in that part of the existing Law on Exclusion should be brought into line with the specific regulation. The result of this harmonisation is that the future expropriation procedures will be based on the rightful location permit issued in accordance with a specific regulation, and the location permit is an administrative act which the conditions of the arrangement of the space were not. Furthermore, according to the existing law, there was no idea whether the expropriation of the remaining part of the property was also related to the incomplete expropriation of the service, and therefore it should be clarified that only when the part of the property can be fully expropriated can be used by the institution and the rest of the property, and that is, if the previous owner has no economic interest to use the remaining part, and because it is not about the withdrawal of the right of ownership as a whole. And the result is the removal of the concerns that have existed so far in this regard. Furthermore, the applicable law as an integral part of the solution on the acceptance of an expropriation proposal did not stipulate that this solution must also contain a provision relating to the compensation for the expropriation of the property. And that is why it is prescribed that the solution also contains such a provision that it removes any doubt in making such a solution. At the same time as the existing regulation did not provide for the entry into force of a ban on the availability of the property of these changes and additions, it is prescribed that the solution must also contain such a warrant, which will ultimately result in legal certainty in the transport of real estate. And what is important to say is that there is no prescribed objective deadline for the submission of applications by the former owner to repeal the rightful decision on the exemption. This means that before the owner could not submit such a request on a continuous basis, I'm sorry, that means that the previous owner, that the owner could have submitted such a request on a continuous basis both at a time and indefinitely. And such a legal solution did not correspond to the definition in favour of the security of legal traffic of real estate. Therefore, this proposal amends and complements the Law provides for a 5-year objective deadline in which the previous owner stands at the disposal of the possibility of submission of the application, for the submission of a valid authorisation solution. At the end of that period, the beneficiary shall cease to be prohibited from making available the real estate. And we think that this decision will also contribute to greater legal certainty in real estate transport. The existing Act on extradition procedures when it prescribes the right to compensation for expropriated property does not distinguish between buildings built with or without a building permit. And this means that according to the existing Act in the extradition procedure, the compensation for the expropriated object is obtained by the former owner whose structure was built with a building permit and by the previous owner who built the building without a building permit. And according to a new solution, the proposed solution to the previous owner who built the building without a building permit has no right to compensation. By proposed regulation, we hold that it will contribute to the repression of lawless construction, and the inclusion of such standards in this Act is a sign of commitment by the Government to contribute, in addition to the specific laws governing this legal area and other laws, to combating the occurrence of illegal construction. Furthermore, the existing Law provides for the jurisdiction of the county court at the final stage of the extradition procedure. It was before the administrative court against whose judgments are not allowed to be audited, and this has indeed resulted in the question of the uniform application of the laws and equality of the citizens in the extradition proceedings. This new proposal introduces the possibility of revision. The consequence that will arise from such legal regulation will be seen in the unity of the application of the laws and equality of citizens to be decided by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the highest court in the legal system to ensure the uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens. And on top of that, a few more changes. According to the existing Law, in the absence of an objective deadline for the repeal of the power-making solution of the previous owners did not suffer any restrictions as regards the time limit for the submission of the application for the annulment of the power-making solution. Of course, if the conditions were laid down by law. As this Law introduced a 5-year deadline for submitting such a request, it raised the question whether all previous owners who have already made requests and who have not been resolved would be able to exercise their right to do so. We have suggested that this right will not be possible for those former owners on whose excommunicated excommunicated property, based on a valid legal basis, the right of ownership has been acquired by a third party. And those former owners whose expropriated property had already been brought to another purpose, other than those for which those properties were subject, if that re-use was carried out in accordance with spatial order documents. These provisions, given that all legal procedures are completed under the provisions of the existing Law, have a return effect. In relation to the acquisition of third party ownership rights, it should be said that they have gained it through trust in land registers, and that the legal traffic of real estate is based on legal certainty, which is certainly the recording of ownership rights in land books, which makes the proposed legal solution an opportunistic one. This is also because in such a case the transfer of property cannot take place because the third party was not a beneficiary of the jurisdiction and may be caused by unwanted court proceedings. And on the other hand, compared to the expropriated properties that were brought in for another purpose than the one for which they were authorised, it should be said that the incarceration to a different purpose than the one which was the cause of the expropriation was not the will of the user of the empowerment but had to do so for the reason that, at the time he began to bring that property to a particular purpose, he changed the document of the spatial arrangement which he had provided for the other purpose. Here, these are the basic amendments and the new proposals of the Enquirement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55311	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we now have more to do with this agenda. I propose that we continue the debate and conclude it today with this item on the agenda, the amendment and the addition of the Law on Extraordination, and an incredibly large number of MPs and representatives in various delegations have been apologized for the vote. So we wouldn't be holding a vote today at 3:00, but we'd go along with trying to complete this point of the Amendment and Completion Act. Legislative committees, the judiciary? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? President Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55312	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 46th session held on 24 January discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Authorisation. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the powers set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the bill's proposal, in particular provisions that allow the uniform treatment of courts throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which will contribute to the equalities of citizens in the proceedings before state bodies. The Committee has established that the right to ownership is a constitutional category, and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires that ownership rights can be exceptionally limited by law in order to protect the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia, the nature of the human environment and human health. In this connection, the Committee considers that the applicant should review the provisions of Articles 8 and 15 by second reading. Proposal of the law and edit them properly. The Committee also considers that the Exclusion Act should not regulate protection against illegal construction but should ensure effective and inspection supervision. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion adopting the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law and Execution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55313	Thank you. The Justice Committee, President Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55314	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 36th session held on 24 January 2006, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 12 January 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The proposer's opening representative pointed out that the proposal in question is in line with the laws governing the spatial planning arrangement, an objective five-year deadline is being introduced for the repeal of the rightful authorisation solution, an audit is being introduced. In the debate, the Committee members supported the bill's proposal in the following opinions of the proposals and observations. The opinion is that Article 7 of the proposal should be reconsidered in order to determine whether the proposed provision puts the previous owners in an unfavourable position, since a deadline is prescribed requiring the repeal of the power-making solution. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Therefore, instead of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The application proposes that the time limit should be set for disprovement of the expropriation solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The opinion is that the term for a purpose or purpose should be defined by law in order to interpret it in a uniform manner because it is obvious that administrative bodies in the implementation of administrative procedures take different views and concepts widely interpreted before the same term is used in some other laws such as the Law on Refunds, the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Land and Others. It is suggested that the representative of the applicant take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia No 745/99 of 8 November 2000 to review Article 42a. and has been determined as regards the jurisdiction of a court full of jurisdiction. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice with 6 votes for and 3 abstentions decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the following conclusions. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explanation, second all observations, proposals and opinions, shall be adopted in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explanation, will be addressed to the Proposer in order to draw up the final proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55315	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55316	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Madam Minister, with an associate, colleague and colleague. Indeed, there seems to be reason to believe that it will improve the situation with this proposal of the Law on Exclusion and some of the concerns that are now being put into practice. I would, in fact, like to point out on behalf of the SDP Club what is actually here, what the Chairs of the Committee on the Constitution and also the chairman of the Committee on Justice have said. These are some serious moments that should certainly be considered until the final proposal of this Law has been drawn up, and this is because it would not happen to us, and there are reasons why the Committee presidents who have reported the debate on these two committees and where certain doubts have arisen, in order to re-emphasise this Act as it has already had the destiny to make certain changes in view of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. What is also questionable to us in the club, which is precisely a restriction, i.e. putting into an irregular position of the previous owner and if we want to protect the value of ownership right now, of course, that property is binding, but the former owner then it seems to me that the Law on Execution has to take care of that weaker party in the proceedings of the owner whose property is governed. So, he does not wonder whether it gives consent or not, it is ultimately the meaning of this institution of expropriation, but then there should be in particular certain mechanisms that we respect this user, or the owner, so that he does not come into a more favourable position than the future user, or the future owner, and that simply some formal obstacles or some formal conditions will no longer be burdened by the previous owner than the future owner, and therefore it seems to me that, even in this concept, as many justified reasons for expropriation, this is not at all questionable, that we are just protecting the previous owner. Only then might these disputes be minor in some way if the former owner is just satisfied. Here's an example, we have this in the construction of highways of our own, so where we've just taken care of this fair, or market-based fee that has satisfied previous owners. After all, this is always both a fundamental and a crucial issue. So, this deadline he has reason for certain legal certainty, but if we link this provision to Article 7 where an objective period of 5 years is introduced now compared to the previous owner, and on the other hand you see that in a more favourable position with this proposal the law probably does not want to come future owner, i.e. user of the authorisation. In fact, even if he does not bring in this property for purposes that were just the reasons for the expropriation, if even that property is used for the opposite purpose for which he has received the expropriation, then it is not even sanctioned, there is no annulment of that powerful solution because if there are new moments so that a change has occurred in accordance with the documents of the spatial arrangement. I think that you should seriously, seriously think about it because it's right through this norm that there's a great possibility of abuse. So they're coming to the expropriation of an attractive property, perhaps for an even more attractive and more attractive social and public benefit, but that's essentially where it's later played out. And it's very, very dangerous, and that just now allows Article 15(2), so that should really be taken into account. 'Cause unfortunately there's a lot of abuse in practice. We can do that, though it may have nothing to do with the concession, but it has certain connections in the sense that these owners who use this institute are later playing this norm. And what is also, as the committees have been drawn attention to, we at the SDP club absolutely agree with these doubts that have opened up and here we ask the motionary to consider which, in essence, which principles, or not just principles, but also what procedures apply in the case of extradition. Is it the administrative procedure or the Law of Prosecution? If, in fact, the bill also states that certain procedures, i.e. the application of certain and the use of certain institutes, are to be followed by the law on litigation. Here, that's what we have, for example. in Article 9, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: What does that mean? This means simply one logical conclusion of the argument a contrast, so that otherwise the Law on, or application of, the Administrative Procedure Act applies. I think we should say here by saying the words that are otherwise applied so that we can finally simply remove these certain misunderstandings. What is also very important, which is what we normally need to manage in this, the application of this institution of expropriation, and then the incurring of the existing law in terms of both intent and intent, and we have no doubt of one good intention to improve it, that it wanted to improve the existing law and find some more adequate solutions. But it should certainly be borne in mind that it is purely civil law that needs to be addressed in court, that even our court, the administrative court is not a court of full jurisdiction. This was also evident in the Constitutional Court and already mentioned in its resolution, in its decision of 8 November 2000. It is also about the application of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and that is what this is about. When it comes to exorcism, there is no doubt that it is property and that it is the kind of protection that must be given to the court. The concept of a administrative dispute in our legislation is, as a rule, a concept of the dispute on the legality of the administrative act. The administrative court of the Republic of Croatia is not obliged to hold an oral hearing in any case. And we already know from practice, I don't know how many oral hearings have been held by the Administrative Court in the first place. It does so only exceptionally when it is estimated that it is necessary because of the nature of the dispute or at the request of the parties. So, from all of this, so we at the SDP club support this first reading, but we put reservations that certain clarifications have to happen, the precision of the norms, and all of them on the trail of the quoted decision of the Constitutional Court, but also these provisions on how to apply them, so that those who implement this law, and those to whom they apply, know exactly what kind, which nature of procedure in these enforcement procedures are implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55317	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55318	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Mrs. Novosel. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal of this law in its first reading and there is no doubt that the right to ownership, its inviolability, is one of the fundamental values of our legal system and this is defined in Article 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The constitution also stipulates that we must all contribute to the common good in the exercise of property rights. So it is already, in some ways, one small restriction on ownership because we have to behave property and content in such a way that it is in the interest of the common good. We also have a certain restriction in the Property Act where ownership rights are said to be not used again in a way that actually makes it impossible for someone else to do so. There are provisions in the Law on ownership of emissions which also, in a certain way, restrict this right of ownership. However, the basic restriction on ownership rights is contained in Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where it is prescribed that the right of ownership can only be limited, or that the roughest measure even means to be taken away, but only after compensation, with the compensation of the real and real market value for that property. And, of course, on the terms and conditions of the procedure prescribed by law. That is why we are pleased that these amendments to the Law on Exclusion have been put into the ordinary procedure so that they can be thoroughly discussed, that they can be thoroughly analysed, because, as we can see, the competent parliamentary committees have shown, pointed out the need to review certain provisions of this law. And so we think it's a very good practice. There is no doubt that in our community we must contribute to her general good, even when we are the owners. Because if roads are built, if gas pipelines are built, if other infrastructure facilities are built, say, in water, telecommunications, then we must really be prepared as individual owners to limit our ownership in the processes of incomplete expropriation when known to mean on our properties the basis of the right of service for the benefit of the user of the authority or we must suffer that even our property is taken away, and yet in favour of such projects, which is the procedure of total expropriation. What is important is that these actions are actually implemented in accordance with the law, that the general interest is really represented in these procedures. The General Interest of the Law on Exclusion is regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 9 of that Law. What is important about this general interest is the participation of the congregations of the county and the city of Zagreb, so the participation of local and regional self-government so that the voice of those people from the field on which certain infrastructure projects are carried out is actually heard, and in this way, the general interest is yet to be determined. The second thing is the extradition procedure itself and what is particularly important when we are talking about the protection and non-violence of ownership rights is to provide enough protection institutes in this very procedure of expropriation. In our procedure of expropriation in our law, it is regulated and envisaged that the procedure is carried out by the competent county offices for property-legal relations, they decide in the first instance in the extradition procedure. Against their decision it is possible to submit a legal remedy, the second-degree legal remedy is decided by the competent ministry, which is with us by the Ministry of Justice. The Justice Ministry's decision is now subject to applicable regulation and can be brought before the county court. This is precisely where that judicial protection is provided in this procedure, because it was here in doubt whether it was administrative proceedings, is this judicial proceedings, because here it is essentially civil, property law and what European conventions prescribed that judicial proceedings should be carried out, they also allow for an exception if other bodies do so, but if these procedures allow the principle of fairness of conduct, the principle of orality, contradiction and all of these procedures are satisfied. However, the current law said that there is no right to appeal and no right to review against the decision of the county court, and that is why we, as a club of the Croatian Democratic Community, support and consider as the largest actual activity and step forward of this bill, is that this law also allows for the right to revise against the decision of the county courts, which so far has not been done because the Law amending the Law on the litigation procedure abolished the application for protection of the legality which, in the previous case, allowed the Supreme Court to actually resolve these issues. As this no longer exists, this law also introduces this step of protection of audits against the Supreme Court. If we add this to the Constitutional Court Act, where citizens mean the fourth instance, they can if they feel that they have been injured by a certain constitution guaranteed freedom and law, if that is the case, so that we have even a fifth step secured. We therefore believe that this law is a major step in protecting the rights of our citizens in the extradition procedure in order to avoid any abuse or manipulation of private property. Certain provisions addressed here, which is this objective general deadline of five years in which a solution can be requested, were in fact the same solution in that old Expropriation Act, and apparently the ministry saw in practice for the legal certainty of citizens and for the protection of all those legal affairs and changes that took place on the ground, that it was reported to have one such general objective deadline within which that solution could be refuted. It is also a good provision for this law which determines what all the expropriation solution should have, it is more important in this way and it is more precise and we welcome that provision on that side in any case. What is also prescribed by this law is that there will be no compensation for those, not real estate, but means buildings, parts of buildings that have been built without the necessary documentation. This is now of course a question and this was the solution in the old Expropriation Act because here it states in the new that this refers to what it was, that it does not refer to those objects that were built until 68th year and it was a solution meaning before. We support the position because already in some of the other laws that went here, we said that we should actually fight this illegal construction, we said that we should stand up for the rule of law, we said that all objects should have the necessary documentation that is therefore foreseen. And that's why we think this is a good provision that insists on one such principle and attitude because what was illegally built through the Institute of Compensation we would legalize it and actually reward the one who did something like that. That is why we support the proposal to amend and supplement this law as once again the greatest value of it, we believe that the introduction of the right to review and the right to intervene of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in the protection of this right of ownership declared by the Constitution. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this, of course, with some more precision regarding the observations of the committees that were with these articles, for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55319	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55320	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, This Act on Exclusion or as we once referred to it as the Law on Expropriation de facto comes from respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as stated in the very explanation, where it is said that, by respecting the abovementioned decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the legislator has been determined by the European Commission and the European Court of Justice to retain jurisdiction in the exercise of the procedure for the delegation of powers to the administrative authorities of the first and second degree, and instead of the jurisdiction of the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia has been determined to transfer jurisdiction to the mayoral court as a court of full jurisdiction, etc. and I think it's absolutely logical and I dare say that at this point we all know what law intensities as we all knew clearly and what we vote for when we adopted the Law on Denationalisation, or the return of property taken away during the South-Communist rule. The second concerns work or activities for the annulment of a powerful solution. I believe that it is logical to suggest, and possibly it can be intriguing this article 8 which many have mentioned where they would not fear the owner of the building's authority raised without a building permit. That's the solution we had until the '90s, which is the principle of the 68th, and today we're coming back to it, there's logic in that, if we want to put order into space. Personally, I'm against the government tearing down where the building, the real estate, the building, the pardons can be legalized, but if someone really wants to build on the corridors of the pipeline, the roads, the highways, the highways, then they need to know that his impertinence will be sanctioned. I remember Mr. Matesha's ex-Prime Minister, who said that the best way to build a Split bypass is to build a tunnel because the entire route, as originally imagined, was actually covered by illegally built buildings. Or rather, possessed by lawless buildings. The main problem today is the price of real estate. In Istria, for example, a real estate company achieved nearly 1 billion kunas or more precisely 948 million kunas in 2004. That's amazing, but that's just the way it is. Therefore, regardless of what I would say, the vast private interest of the state clearly and this Law must send a message that when there is a higher interest we will always, clearly, negotiate with the owner, try to agree, but that it will not allow the general interest to suffer because of the private as well as with us in Istria recently politicised in Fažana with where the gas pipeline's path will pass. Thus, gasification was stalled for 2 years in this Istrian space, which was not gassed, causing enormous damage to both industry and citizenship, but indirectly caused damage to the country as well, clearly, as a whole. I believe that these "nasty" under quotes, the situation must be resolved by the state, as in this Law on highways where the Law itself, calling for a spatial plan, de facto determined this previous interest, and then by means of a spatial plan or by the law of half the work, I dare say, on the settlement of property-legal issues on that track, it is not important from Zagreb to Rijeka or from Zagreb to Split, but it has already been resolved. Without such a law, Croatia, I dare say, would never have built nearly 400, 500km of new highways in that period in 2006, and this is how these legal solutions went more or less painlessly. It is clear that I advocate that the local community is fully involved in determining this general interest, but then there must be no, how do I express myself, particularity. I also want to say that I'm sorry, I'm sorry, that the justified general interest on the road must not stand in private, clearly the owners should always be paid for, and above all, the replacement properties. And the state here needs to show us the maximum amount of flexibility, not that the Central Office of Real estate Management simply blocks everyday life. The office is largely holding down investment. These actions with him are unjustly long, it's inadmissible, it's I dare say irresponsiblely as if these people are there because of themselves, and not vice versa, because of other interests of our municipalities, cities, finally the economy as a whole. This is also about the transfer of jurisdiction from the administrative court to the county court as a court full of jurisdiction. We, what matters or matters, must regulate, and which does not contain this Law. This should be installed for a second reading, that all these procedures are urgent, in one word urgent, that the procedures are high priority. Because because of the lack of urgency of the court of objective, subjective, I don't know what reasons that public interest must not be hampered. Whether it's a pipeline, whether it's a gas pipeline, whether it's a highway, a school building, kindergartens, a nursing home or something. So, the procedure can't be complicated because you'll all agree that time is money and that's the point. Time means money. And there must be some flexibility there and therefore these procedures should be treated in some way in our county courts as emergency procedures. Croatia is fortunately no longer in these permanent inflation zones as it was there until 93rd when money was secured for, say, an investment, time, sometimes a few months actually ate overnight. But time is inexorable, and that's why we require urgency. And secondly, that state by replacing real estate actually solves taking away real estate. This is possible, and only normally there should be political will or better said hearing that the government opt for such a solution. That's the point, but we support the law because it's primarily consistent with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is clear that the owner should be absolutely protected. I'm going to say again how, by replacing the real estate. I claim that the state can do that, and then let's talk about some market, fair and similar fees. Ms Antunovic mentioned Article 15(2), that in the case, I quote: "if the user of the expropriation, i.e. the exemption in the submission of the request of the previous owner for the annulment of the powerful solution in the expropriation, i.e. the expropriation... a real estate other than the one for which it has been expropriated, or expropriated, if it is re-purposed in accordance with the documents of the spatial plan, etc." However, if someone in such a deceitful way has done something with these properties, it is little to close that individual, bearing in mind how people identify themselves with these properties and how easily they simply achieve at these moments of market price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, the Law on Denationalisation or as we call it, the Law on the Return of Assets during the South-Communist Government also mentions the institutions of expropriation and I think that those people who have filed restitution proceedings should in some way be compensated by the state and these procedures should be maximumly accelerated. So, for a second reading, I believe that this is actually in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that the state should, when this higher interest is simply to regulate urgency or to know the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55321	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55322	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister who is not present, colleagues and fellow MPs. So before us are the amendments and additions of the law allowing the state to intervene in the ownership of real estate owners through the institution of expropriation. Ownership is invulnerable and property integrity is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Ownership gives rise to rights, but of course it has property and obligations. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 48(2) says "the holder of ownership rights and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good". The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial The constitution says "the law is possible in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to limit or confiscate property with market value compensation." So the limitation and the seizure is possible, but not always, but when it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. This interest only exists if it is generally a good thing to contribute to each holder and user of ownership rights. The decision to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia is made by the Government and is published in "The People's Journal". This decision is not principled and is not general, it determines that the construction of the facility or the execution of works is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of the user of the extradition according to the previously obtained opinion of the Assembly of the County, or of the City of Zagreb, whose area is intended to build or perform works, but not in any way, but in accordance with the spatial plan, i.e. the proposal to amend it by means of a detailed plan. Therefore, the Authority is indeed an exceptional intervention of the state into ownership powers. This intervention takes place only in the case of the construction of specific facilities and the execution of specific works which are in the interest of the State, i.e. the general good. As it is owned by one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order, it is the state's obligation to protect the Institute of Exclusion from all possible abuses. In this regard, we also observe these changes according to the same criteria and criteria as we in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party observed those in 2000 and those in 2001 which are essential features of these changes. Amendments allow the revision of the second-degree exemption solution brought by the county courts. It is true that according to the current legal decisions, there is no possibility of controlling such court decisions, and now neither appeal nor revision is allowed against those decisions. Perhaps this would not be a problem if there was a uniform caselaw in Croatia, but it is not the county courts who take different views leading to doubt and uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens in the procedure of exorcism. In the Republic of Croatia's only Supreme Court system, as the highest court, ensures uniform application of the laws and equality of citizens, therefore we find it a good opening of the possibility of intervention of the Supreme Court, but it is unclear why the applicant chooses the review as an extraordinary legal remedy. We think that it would be good until the second reading to consider the appeal as a regular legal remedy by making a decision to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on appeal. The further novelty to be introduced by these amendments is the introduction of an objective deadline of 5 years after which the previous owners cannot in any way ask for an annulment of the rightful authorisation solution. The amendment shall explain the needs of equalising the protection of the rights of users of the delegation and of previous owners. This is an important change in relation to the existing law based on the absolute protection of previous owners in accordance with the constitutional provision on the non-violence of ownership rights. This does not mean that under the current law, the previous owner could ask for an annulment of the rightful decision on the expropriation when he wanted to, as he wanted, and for the reason he assessed himself justified. The law stipulates that, at the request of the previous owner of the authorised property, an expropriation decision will be annulled if the beneficiary of an expropriation within 2 years of the date of power of the solution, i.e. from the date of entry into the property, has not begun the construction of the facility or with the execution of works for which the property has been authorised, or if the awarded property is not used in accordance with the manner established by the law. Now, neither in these cases after the 5-year period, the previous owner will be able to seek an annulment of the solution despite the fact that the reason and the purpose of the execution is misused. Therefore, the right of ownership without the realisation of the state interest, namely the general goods that are manifested in the construction of specific facilities and the performance of specific works, has been taken away. After a period of 5 years and such beneficiaries of expropriation will be able to freely dispose of the expropriated real estate and the reason for the expropriation or confiscation of ownership rights will never be realised. Isn't that the abuse of the Institute of Exclusion? The Institute, which is extremely intervened by the state in ownership powers. It would be unfair to permanently leave an unprotected user of expropriation, complete protection can be obtained only after he has built the facilities or carried out works for which the Government's decision has established that they are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and thus constitutes a reason for the withdrawal of the right of ownership of the previous owner. As long as this is at the stage of planning the rights of users of the exemption cannot be equated with the rights of previous owners containing ownership, use, use and availability. Furthermore, Article 8 says "the previous owner does not have the right to compensation for the expropriated construction that was built without an act on which it can be built according to a special regulation". Describing his proposal, the proposer says the proposed supplement will contribute to curbing illegal construction. The lawless builder committed a violation of the law for why he is responsible and must bear responsibility as prescribed by law, but he cannot be sanctioned twice for the same work. The second time it is sanctioned, this proposal sanctions it, amends and supplementation that deprives it of the right to confiscation of ownership only because it has violated one other law that defines sanctions for injury. The promoter says that paying compensation to the persons who broke the law would be unfair. It's unfair to confiscate property without compensation. Such a provision may be sustainable from a moral point of view in a country where it is much simpler and faster to come to an act on which it can be built and where all buildings are built with all necessary permits. We live in another world and therefore the imperfection of the functioning of the state administration, bureaucracy and administration cannot be paid by a citizen to whom ownership is taken away. He is responsible for the offence committed and the offence committed and should be punished but has the right to compensation for the severance of property. What we are particularly concerned about in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party is Article 15, which prescribes exceptions in the application of the laws to which the amendments apply with them having retroactive effect. What are the exceptions? It is said that the right to expropriate or expropriation will not be annulled if a third party, on the basis of a valid legal basis, has acquired the right of ownership of an expropriated or expropriated property or has been transferred to it on the basis of a valid legal basis for the acquisition of property rights. This provision would not be disputed if it were to apply only to those properties on which the buildings or works found to be State interest for which ownership of the previous owner was seized. This supplement, as it says, is the legalization of the abuse of the Authority. The second exception is in the provision that the rightful authorisation decision will not be annulled if the expropriation user or the expropriation user prior to the request of the previous owner for the annulment of the expropriation solution or the expropriation has brought in a property other than the one for which it has been expropriated or granted, if that change is in accordance with the documents of the spatial arrangement. And this is the legalization of abuse of expropriation. The removal of ownership on a particular property is not allowed for anything but for the construction of a specific facility or for the execution of specific works that are of state interest. These changes do not allow the annulment of the solution even when some other objects that are not of state interest have been built, it is clearly described that the user of the exemption granted by the authority for the purpose of building, for example, a child's kindergarten, is selling an advantageous property to a foreign trade chain which builds a super market there and legalises all this law. Such that we must not be allowed in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party is unacceptable. However, as this is the first reading in the hope that the Proposer will accept our amendments, Madam Minister's Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support this proposal but in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55323	You heard the minister. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55324	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Here, I'll be brief. I won't repeat what my colleagues used to say on behalf of other clubs. Normally, the Croatian Party of Rights Club also supports the first reading of this bill and normally that we are looking for a reaction related to Article 8 and Article 15 of this bill. We do not dispute at all that part of the obligation and according to the conduct related to the amendments and additions of this law to the Constitutional Court's verdict. But just about this article 8 I'm going to show you two examples now that may seem a little bit amazing and we could be led under this "The previous owner has no right to compensation for the extraordinary building that was built." Namely, two cases, I think she also knows her colleague Lovrin, are of such a nature that Croatian citizens had an executive power building permit and acted on it and brought the building in line with what was contained in the building permit and then someone appeared and canceled the location conditions, the location permit. And automatically, as soon as the location is cancelled, the building permit is automatically cancelled. And so, in these situations if this were to stay like this and if we went to that part means everything was done in good... It was done according to regulations, and that is the situation that even comes into the situation that it is the State's claim of compensation for damages because everything is done in good faith. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will also not repeat what Ms. Ljubica Lalić said on behalf of the club regarding Article 15, but we must publicly say here that there are two legal situations. One legal situation is the one which is covered by this law, meaning when the expropriation is carried out for the purposes of general interests and by the moss owners of these properties are not satisfied and would not want to be granted but this situation is stronger. But there's a different situation where the owners are entitled to an expropriation. But unfortunately, there's also the part where there's corruption and everything else. These are for example in the case of large capital investments building highways, building schools and everything else. We have the best example in the city of Zagreb when we change the spatial plan and determine the second route of the Zagreb-Sisak highway even though the previous route has been established 40 years ago. So for various locations, for example in the city of Zagreb for the construction of hospitals or malls or, say, roads and everything else, so it's not the same if the road goes over Emilovo's yard or over mine, but it's going to go where the best with the ones where the route is needed, so that "Birds of Heaven" you remember well when they were "grof" and "modka" so they determined where they would go. Therefore, in situations like this, an attempt should also be made to react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55325	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. You have answered in your name. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the club, Honorable representative Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister! Also, I don't want to bother listeners with what's already been heard here today, but I really need to say something about this law because it's a law that we very often encounter in construction practice and urban practice, and it's important for us to do pragmatic work and for us to implement certain things on the ground as quickly as possible, and I think it's important for citizens, so there's a reason to talk about it. I certainly welcome and we from the Club will support this bill, however, I would like to say, although of course we believe that ownership of private property is of uncut value and that it is, and that it is absolutely right above all, we feel that it is equally important and that it is our duty to determine and to deal with the fact that it is a common good and to assume the general good of any other private interest. This right can, of course, be taken away or restricted by law and, with market value compensation, of course, if it comes to the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I would mention that, in practice, we happen quite often to encounter problems about it and I would also say that what you are proposing is the introduction of an objective five-year deadline for the annulment of a powerful solution in the empowerment. Equivalence of actually the user of expropriation with the owner will lead to serious problems in implementing this because, as Mrs. Lalic has not mentioned before, we have so far had the opportunity to access the building within two years, or if access to the building contrary to the purpose for which the empowerment has been carried out so far that this authorisation can be annulled. However, in this way, the repeal of the powers of judgments, or by extending that term to 5 years, is now being made, since the other part is missing, so perhaps only with the addition of that kind of judgment, it should be possible to correct it a little bit, that the authority may be exercised in one noble intention, the intention for some public or general good, and that it ends in a completely other way, so that more of the one to whom the previous owner is authorised cannot react because more than 5 years have passed. I think it's a flaw, and I think it'd be a way to complete it. In addition, as regards the introduction of an audit, the amendment allows for the introduction of an audit. I also think that maybe we should, it's more form of thinking about going to complaints, I don't see in particular maybe I don't know that segment of law enough but I don't see a particularly important difference between the revision and the appeal process. I mean, well, I think you could also get, go with the appeal and thus achieve the same effect or maybe even a better effect than in terms of revision. What you would certainly like to look at is illegal construction, illegal construction. It is true that on February 15, 1968, these objects were built before all that we inherited long ago, long before we even started working on spatial plans and spatial planning documents. It is, of course, another topic compared to what appears today as an illegal construction although I consider it, perhaps I am a little more rigid and stricter in those views. I believe that illegal construction is a terrible and permanent devastation of space and that it should be a little bit more rigorous than that. Of course, I don't think about it, in this respect, taking into account some social aspects, but primarily since space and category of space is a permanent category, I think that for future generations we'll do a good job if we're going to be a bit stricter. Of course, this assumes a positive relationship with it in a way that the entire administration, the state administration and the entire bureaucracy are that, to become a little more mobile, not so threefold, and that, and you, too, that intention of illegal construction will be rarer or less. I'm not for absolute and complete legalization of illegal construction. Far from it. I think they know, he knows in space it has such negative effects that we all suffer from the fact that we can't drive a car through some settlement further. Here as regards illegal construction Article 8 you regulate it quite well here, but what I would like to look at this hour is something that my colleague started only as a topic, but I think it's very common it's a de facto reservation of land by the state. I will mention the case of construction to you right now on the topic at the City of Zagreb Assembly about the construction and route of the Zagreb-Sisak highway where 40 years of road was in principle established in one way. So she was led, she was led by, with the rash, the Sava rash and was attached afterwards across the county land to, on the Buzin road and, of course, people were expecting, they could hardly wait for those who were on that path of a few or a minority of private property, they could hardly wait for the authority to finally get that route into service so that they would be compensated for it. In order to now suddenly within a few months of 1.12. when, when the HAC and Croatian highways have made an observation on the spatial plan, there has been a change in this route and this route no longer goes through that state land, so it does not go through that corridor along the Sava Nasip but goes directly across the settlement, following the very edge of the settlement Dugava. Direct impact on the Ranjirna station over one huge tunnel passes beneath all installations of Ranjirna station, so there is a further tunnel being built to then rise to the corner of "Plus 1" because it enters the water protection area. The pillars are set up, and over that water-protective area of the track are bound to, so all the people to go back to what is the point of this story, all the people who have been expecting and waited 40 years to be compensated in this process, and that finally their land can be sold to this purpose, this change of the Space Plan has been played out to some others, not to enter which, but some others have found themselves on that track. I wonder how that can be? Where's some kind of justice? Where's some sort of exorcism story? Where we are in all these discussions about where citizens are equal or how they are, you have a very similar story in the Councils about building a school. Often, ownership of land is a particular racket in some relationships, social relations of purchase and sale. Often, it's even being blackmailed by certain people, so let's say you have an example in Zagreb, one, now on this general urban plan where the entire Resnik has been redeployed from the green area to the building area except for a small segment in the middle of that building area of Resnik which has remained green. And you know why he stayed green? You know why he stayed green and, say, predicted for the park? Because the guy in question didn't want to sell that property to whoever it was, walk on Resnik and buy land. So let me say it. I agree, this law has a lot of good proposals, including the proposal that spatial documentation and the Space Plan are no longer the basis for expropriation but for this to be a detailed plan. I also welcome that. However, I think there is much more that can be regulated to make life easier for people in life or to facilitate these relations between the state as an investor and a public social interest compared to what makes private or personal interest. Thank you very much. We'll support this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55327	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The distinguished representative Miroslav Korenik is not in the Assembly. Honorable representative, Representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will try very concisely to make some of my observations about the bill's proposal. It should be said that ownership is the cornerstone of our country's economic, legal, and social order. So property is protected by the Constitution in two ways. The Constitution therefore protects property in two ways, so Article 48 of the Constitution guarantees the right to ownership of paragraph 1 and Article 50. The Constitution says the law can therefore, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, limit and confiscate property with market value compensation. In other words, only the Croatian Parliament, I stress can determine the interest and confiscate property by law. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's intervention as stated here was precisely to exclude ownership and full market compensation must end in a court full of jurisdiction. That's the meaning of the Constitutional Court intervention. This proposal erods this, that meaning of the Constitutional Court's decision. How? So the proposal suggests that, under the alleged signs, unifying court practice to introduce an extraordinary legal remedy. I'm up for it or what my colleague Lalic said. So, right to appeal to everyone who participates in the procedure. Therefore, the author and user of the extradition, not an extraordinary legal remedy that would return to Croatian practice, and the right to propose an extraordinary legal remedy was given by a state lawyer, not both parties in the process. And it's unacceptable if it's about the market and protecting ownership. If we want to regulate in a new way an extraordinary legal remedy that both parties in the process of protecting their rights, so also the owner of the land and the one in favour of which the exemption is done have the right on the proposal to the Supreme Court for an extraordinary legal remedy I could accept because it would in a certain way shorten the procedure. Therefore, I do not agree that the purpose of the protection of ownership is eroded through the revision of the procedure. Secondly, I would like to say, of course, that I accept and support the proposal that there is no compensation for the lawless construction of buildings on the land to be excluded, but I warn that there is insufficient definition of which buildings have building documentation. All over the country, of course in the last system in '68. years of law are regulated and strengthened, i.e. legal objects that were built until then. It's '73 in Zagreb. The city of Zagreb brought and legalized the buildings that were built until '73. A year. They still don't have construction documentation, but the law has to be said that they have building documentation because we gave them the right to do so, so compensation for such facilities must be paid in full. We can't legalize and legalize their existence once, and then when they're granted for the needs of the state, we don't give them full compensation. And the third thing I want to stress is an objective deadline. Yeah, but for future law. So the law is passed for future cases. Now the feedback will take away the right of one number of executors who for whatever reason have not so far filed a claim for the protection of their rights or appeal or lawsuit. I think it would be good to introduce an objective deadline, but not a feedback. In that sense, of course, we need to support this law. And one more thing. It should come more often to the Croatian Parliament to build something out of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and that we make such decisions in this House, and not to make such decisions on the basis of a Republic spatial plan, but to make a decision on the interest of the Republic of Croatia only on detailed urban plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55329	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55330	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Assistant Minister. Well, here, I will try just as well as my esteemed colleague will be brief and concise, so in the opening part, I will say that I absolutely support the Amendments and Supplements Act in the first reading, because I think the solutions proposed are in the law itself, that they are of quality and that they will not only simplify but improve the practice of expropriation in the Republic of Croatia and a lot of difficulties and in the formal sense that have been encountered so far in the process and the extradition process is actually being removed by this proposal. First of all, I think that this law should be supported because it is actually about harmonising the provisions of the law with the Constitution and special regulations, where it is primarily very important to comply with the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning. So I repeat the Law on Spatial Planning. Second. In the process of revoking the already adopted and adjudicated expropriation solution, the deadline is introduced and an objective period of five years in which it is possible, in the law of the envisaged assumptions, to annul only in the decision on the exemption. And thirdly, it has already been mentioned here, so an audit is being introduced as an extraordinary legal remedy prescribed by the procedural provisions of the litigation process. So, the review as an extraordinary legal remedy in terms of what colleagues have also said, I have a different opinion in this sense because the regular legal path is exhausted until the decision of the Council of the County Court, so it is a logical solution to introduce an audit, an audit as an extraordinary legal remedy that allows the way of legal protection in this way to the Supreme Court in the sense of court and to bring court practice into line. So, that audit because it's a regular legal path. The appeal was mentioned until then in the proceedings pending the decision of the Council of the County Court in a legal or concrete legal matter which is to be decided in the procedure of of course. Of course, the application of the Authority always represents an exceptional intervention in fact by the state in ownership and necessarily needs to be considered in relation not only to Articles 50 and 50 respectively. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is already Article 3 and 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because ownership or non-infringing property is not only the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, but it is as a right guaranteed by constitutional provisions. On the other hand, the ownership is binding, since the holders of ownership rights and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good, and on the basis of the law alone, it is possible to restrict or confiscate property in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but always, with the compensation of the market value of the property in question. Therefore, market value compensation as a basic model or method of actually compensation to the owner when ultimately comes to the very exposure of concrete real estate. In accordance with the above mentioned exercise of the right of ownership procedure, therefore, and each exemption in its essence is the withdrawal of the right of ownership, it is necessary to lay down strictly by means of a precise law to elaborate. All ambiguities, any procedural or material nature, need to be removed by clear normative solutions and the proposed law unequivocally sets the Institute of Exclusion on these grounds. And he's working on it that way. In fact, the provisions of the existing law which refer to the spatial plan really need to be amended in terms of clarity, and the possibilities for the granting of real estate should be seen in the context of a detailed plan for the arrangement of the space, i.e. the rightful location permit. For what? Well, it's a simple reason. Because the spatial plan represents a summary term for several spatial planning documents, and only by a detailed plan can we edit all the details of a specific space, mainly related to the formation of a building plot. Because it's supposed to be in a particular situation of expropriation, actually, the most important. Of course, the rightful location permit, not only is it the basis of the establishment of the building permit, but it is, unlike the terms of the arrangement of the space, so those prior to the terms of the arrangement of the space, this is a administrative act which also constitutes a valid basis for future building of the facility, or the execution of works will be fully in accordance with the spatial-planning documentation. Furthermore, the existing provision of Article 7 should indeed have been amended in such a way that the same applies only to full exemption, ending the right of ownership of the former property on the property in question, and does not refer to an incomplete authorisation which only limits the right of ownership to the property of the previous owner. This is actually about a specific right, so the right of service that ends and unites amongst other things, so when the same person becomes the owner of a service and advantageous property. Therefore, only when it comes to full exemption and it is found at the request of the owner that it has no economic interest to use the remaining part of the property will be authorised or authorised and that remaining part of the property. Furthermore, this may already be the case in the course of the debate so far, so that the most doubts or discussions will follow the basis of the proposed provision that the previous owner does not have the right to compensation for the construction of the building, which was built without an act on which it can be built under a special regulation. Of course, the validity of the construction here should be seen as a previous issue, and the extradition procedure can continue, i.e. after the enforcement of the decision taken on the previous issue. The possibility of legalisation should certainly be predicted, therefore only as a possibility, regardless of which of course this does not apply to buildings built before 15 February 1968. It is absolutely necessary to support the proposed amendments to Article 42g, which allow the revision to be made as an extraordinary legal remedy against Council decisions in order to allow not only the control of such judicial decisions, but also the equalisation of the case-law of the county courts by introducing the Institute of Audit as an exceptional legal remedy prescribed by the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. Finally, this regulation and absolutely its solutions should be supported, and in the sense of some intervention, given that this is the first interpretation, so I have to, I have a bit of a problem with this term of "the council" when we talk about the county court, I think it is common that it is so precise in the law and provisions that it is a county court, not a council or council. There, and with my little remark, I conclude this debate in a way that this law should absolutely be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55331	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point and this week's session. Continuing is 8pm at 9:30. It is up to the report with a proposal for measures of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-02-03-0.u55332	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Exemption, first reading. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Exemption is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 98 votes in favour and 7 abstentions, the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, before the beginning of the session, given the fact that in the Croatian press, the list "Nacional" conveys a cartoon that offends the religious feelings of Muslims. The cartoon by which the prophet Muhammad is portrayed as a terrorist, as a criminal terrorist and thus identifies the entire Muslim Islamic religion myself in the name of the Croatian Parliament as the Government did, as the President of the Republic has done, and I regret it. I express my condemnation, rebuke and apology for this unreasonable act that offends the religious and national feelings of Muslims, and I ask that the Croatian Parliament, as a representative body, take note of and accept that it cannot play with, under media freedoms with religious feelings that can cause very difficult political, inter-human, inter-racial, inter-national, inter-religious consequences. And we also call upon everyone not to accept such unreasonable, transfer of these unreasonable cartoons, equalising the prophet Muhammad with, as one of the religious symbols and sanctity, that they do not succumb and accept and aggressive, aggressive violence in response to such assessments and valuable courts that insult Islam, which insult the Muslim world. We're moving on with the session. We are going on the subject: - Report with a proposal for measures of the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the concluded contracts between state bodies and companies owned or partly owned by officials; In accordance with the Law on Investigation Commissions, the Research Commission submitted the above report. I ask the representative of the Committee, president of the Investigative Commission of Honored Representative Nenad Stazic, to take his word. Here you go.
