ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So here you have a proposal for conclusions that he referred to in the procedure of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. Let me say a few sentences and explain our proposal. We are very often witnessing the situation in which the most legislative body of this country, the Croatian Parliament, is being brought into force in the adoption of a large number of laws. I must say that we all have many times to say that the Croatian Parliament is the most legislative body and we who sit here to create a certain policy in a certain way, we give certain laws, and that is how they are treated. I think that's the ground to go from. Based on powers in certain laws, in most cases only implementing regulations and acts adopted by the Government or ministers determines the real content of the concrete law and that the Croatian Parliament has no influence on this. What does that mean most specifically? It means that here in Parliament, we are going to pass certain laws, and then when certain regulations or certain sublaws, the rules are being implemented in practice, they seem completely different, sometimes almost unrecognizable. Those implementing rules shall determine the conditions, obligations, costs for citizens, end-users, range and weight that the Assembly cannot see at the time when it adopts a certain law. In the largest number of cases in the assessment of the situation or in the reasons, the applicant has no data, approximation of the content of the law itself, which will finally be seen only when implementing rules are adopted within a certain period. What prompted us to send this conclusion into the procedure and to open it, I would say a serious debate on this problem is the situation that took place in connection with the Law on Amendments and Supplements on the financing of the water economy and by adopting the basis of the same implementing rules. Regulation of the primary Regulation on the level of water contribution. When he passed the law at the end of 2005, I believe that almost none of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament knew how financially difficult it would be for our citizens and how this would affect the overall economy. The government adopted a disputed water contribution regulation on February 2nd, 2006. After that, we warned that this would negatively reflect on everything and we also gave indicative calculations on how this would affect agriculture, specifically on the construction of the farm. We've come up with huge numbers. We have followed this to the procedure of the proposal for this conclusion, but on the same track we have referred to the procedure for amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act. In its opinion on the proposal for this conclusion, the Government states that the contested regulation simplifies everything well done, but although I am particularly stressing that, under public pressure, the Government means in March 22rd, amending and supplementing the disputed regulation, which reduces the amounts. This is just one very concrete and direct example where we see the regulations, I can tell myself to this highest legislative body, the Croatian Parliament almost reduces its specific role by which it adopts certain laws, and these laws eventually turn out to be completely different. I think this House must deal seriously with the problem of implementing rules which, by virtue of the powers laid down in the material laws, are passed by the executive authority and which in a certain way act as legislators who did not know at the time of the law's adoption what its repercussions would ultimately be. As part of this debate, it might be good to propose the conclusion that the Government undertakes to submit a specific report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the law with a detailed explanation from content to deadlines or missing deadlines for the adoption of implementing rules, which is why it is missed in certain areas. We think that a similar conclusion has already been made about the implementation of certain laws and already several years ago also in this Parliament. Here, especially to point out that this was one particular example, you can and all of us... The opinion of the Government which arrived on 16 March and where it is almost claimed that all what was adopted by the Regulation was good, high-quality, extremely detailed and analytical and that it would then be 22nd. only after 6 days, 6 days after the opinion on our proposal for conclusions Croatian Government changed the Regulation that was adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's a lot of justification that the Croatian Peasant Party Club, and I believe that many other clubs will support us, is looking for this conclusion. Because if regulations change the essence of things in a particular law, if regulations or regulations bring something that none of the MPs did when he raised his hand and voted, he couldn't even think. When it comes to regulations directly, this is about financial commitments going to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, when we were almost witnesses stopping investment for a month, a month and a half almost stopping construction then we think that this conclusion is something that should not be rejected by any representative in this House but should be almost a practice. A practice in which the Government would have to have when it comes to the law if not in the law itself, and then at least in the light of the law, something that would give us the opportunity to assess the regulation or regulation that would be passed by the Government, what rule the minister will adopt afterwards, and that we can therefore decide whether to uphold such a law or to oppose such a law. When we don't know that, I'm afraid we'll find ourselves in the situation where we found ourselves here. This situation was not good for us in the Croatian Parliament either, and I can't say it was good for the Croatian government as well. If someone thinks it was good for the Croatian government then they will have to explain to the Croatian public how only after 2 months a different regulation, with a different content, because then we have to say that it was simply said that the government had made a mistake, she saw the mistake and then she corrected it that she couldn't dare. It can be praised, but if we have time, if we are discussing certain things here, then it would be good if we were not to be abused in some way, but to be explained in detail what the law is, which follows, what is going to happen, and then I believe that in the very adoption of a law we will know in the right way to suggest certain things. So I have to mention this one more time, we wanted to be at the 19th session. But knowing here, I already have to say that the established practice in this House is that certain things don't exactly go in time in that part, but I'm glad it's on the agenda today. I think that one general conclusion must be made, a conclusion that will always oblige the Government when it comes to certain regulations to come here in a certain way again to parliament, to clarify a certain situation that we can get a detailed report on the policy that the Government has on certain rules that are adopted in certain segments of the work of a particular ministry and government as a whole. That is the conclusion proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party Club. We're not looking for anything special. We just want this Parliament to get on board, so that this Parliament is not just me, I'd say a mere formal machine sometimes in voting certain laws, but that it really participates in them and that these laws that we bring here don't hatch, that executive power in a certain way doesn't turn them into something that the parliamentary deputies here in the vote didn't want to happen. That is why I believe that here are the clubs of MPs that will support all these conclusions and that we all get a detailed report together on everything that the Government is doing, what it does with a policy of adopting such regulations, which is implemented by the Ministry of Law-making and what happens to the laws that have been passed here, and after that, when regulations and certain rules are adopted. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66521	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur want a committee? No, I don't. We have a problem. Our Rules of Procedure can come forward with a minister or secretary of state. As I've been informed that everyone is on their way, there are two assistant ministers here. If we need an explanation later, we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure for now. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66522	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP Club welcomes the appearance of this item on the agenda and the launch of questions in the Croatian Assembly regarding legislative stampede, the indetermination of legislation, the non-chalant relationship between the Government and the ministries on timely adoption, i.e. at all, on the adoption of legislation and on the creation of additional legal uncertainty in this manner of work. The first thing I have to say on behalf of the HSP Club, I think that you have been too mild in assessing the situation in this area in relation to how this situation is, so on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I will try to look back at all these problems in which you point out in the proposal by putting them in the next three groups. The first group refers to the adoption of legislation in the Croatian Parliament, and we need to make it clear here that we ourselves produce the legislative stampede by bringing more than 82% of the regulations in this meeting, meaning the fifth meeting of the Croatian Parliament into an emergency procedure. What it means to pass laws in an emergency procedure is to see for ourselves after these laws are passed and published in the National Journal. In these laws, the even more present problem is that there is no simulation of the application of such legal provisions, i.e. the assessment of the legal effects they will produce directly in an area for which they are not adopted. The other problem with law-making is the one when it comes to legal regulations that have a P.Z.E. code. means harmonising with the legal gains of the European Union, that we have received in this assembly, and we are still receiving legislative proposals that are the literal translation of the Directives and guidelines of the European Union, so that when the Government figures out what kind of failure it has made, it is not until after the meetings of the committee of relevant or legislative bodies or for the judiciary or other relevant committees. Then it goes through so many amendments, and it endures them after the parliamentary debate, which further makes the situation more difficult. Now the third problem of the law, which I was finally pleased with yesterday, is also referred to by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as the Transitional and Final Provisions concerning the time of entry into force of the laws and regulations and the start of their application. There's a totally messy situation. Because we have situations, so the law states that on the 8th day of publication in "The People's Newspaper" then it is said that the provisions of these articles and these articles will start to apply in 6 months, a year. And so total legal uncertainty is produced, and not to mention the provisions of sublegal regulations, which also leave one provision of the former sublegal regulation in effect, the new ones do not say when they will enter into force. And the worst thing I've ever seen is that this law, you have here before you, refers to the Final Law on Theatres where they introduced another newspaper that I called "the time of lawlessness". You know why? Because they said the applicable law ceases to apply to the new Final Law on Theatres, and it is said to enter into force on the 8th day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper". While the new law will start to apply from 1.1.2007. Reko, now we're exactly what's going on in practice, and that's so-called. "time of lawlessness." Now we are going to that other variant that is present here, and this is always known to you when there are disagreements or when it is not known how and how certain issues in the law will be resolved, then it is said that this will be settled by sublaws, whether it is sublegal regulations that will be passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or ministers. But all of this is common for us in the Croatian Parliament to determine in which, in the Transition and Final Provisions, within which the government, or relevant ministries, ministers, must adopt these sublegal regulations. And, of course, it's an instructional deadline. In fact, look at many laws, and you will see that it requires a substantial number of regulations to be adopted. The problem is that certain sublaws have not been passed at all until today, and the laws have been in force for, say, 4.5 years. That's one option. And the second option is that a very small number is generally passed within the time limit prescribed by law and that automatically creates legal uncertainty and does not have the possibility to implement and implement such groups of laws. And now we come to a third problem, and that's what it is. Legislative regulations. And now the Government of the Intermect when it sees that it cannot solve something at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament because there is not enough majority or else, then in those situations when the Constitution allows it to try and solve many things that should not be dealt with in this way by regulations with legal force, but by changing the very principles on which the law is based. And in the end, I'm just going to tell you, about that whole part of the Proposer that you have to change this part about the proposal for a conclusion, because you obviously thought this would come a long way before the debate. It says the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a detailed report during the 19th session. These... As things stand, they will never stand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they ended up in the principle of Roman law that says, "A good law would be bad if it was carried out by bad people.". It's the principle of Roman law. And bad law, bad law can be good if it's carried out by good people. Now you grade in this part of where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66523	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Bozidar Pankretic. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66524	Mr. Vice President, I have to respond to this, so let me put it this way that you suggested, respecting what you said that there is no government representative here who would competently not mind my Mr. Assistant but our Rules of Procedure is very clear. But now look at the situation we're in, gentlemen. Here I would say, our conclusion does not apply to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry with this exception that we should do he talks about the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that it must submit a detailed report. We have an assistant from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry here. Unfortunately, I have to say that this is definitely an indication that if we don't have anyone here in front of the government right now who could answer these questions, which is why we've even submitted these conclusions, and if the government's position is like this right now, then I have to make it clear that I'm afraid that these conclusions we've proposed, and this whole debate, I'm not sure it'll make sense. So I'd like to ask you, Mr. Vice President, if it's possible, it would be extremely good to provide a representative of the government who could be here with us if we could at least discuss these conclusions with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66525	I've informed the Parliament that there are no ministers and state secretaries who would be here to explain. But the government has given its opinion and this, if we reach a conclusion, is directed towards the government. And it's not necessary for someone to sit here and answer some questions if we take the view that what you're proposing is what's going to apply to the whole government. Therefore, do not be dramatic about this situation that there is no secretary of state here because we have, unfortunately, debated many times without the presence of those who were in the Rules of Procedure. I ask you that within the framework of what we have started to continue this debate and that this situation is not used for any additional dramatics that are not needed. Here. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66526	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this proposal for the conclusions of the HSS Club, because we believe it is indeed high time to open a debate on the matter of the Government before Parliament, especially in the part of the legislative framework. When the Parliament discussed the law on the basis of which it gave the government the authority to lay down, unfortunately, the financial obligations of citizens, on behalf of the club, we first warned that the water contribution model was not good, that it was unnecessary. We warned that the system of solidarity and funding of the water economy was far more appropriate, more social, fairer, but the law was passed, and then the government established those levels by its regulation, after criticising the public, but did not give up on the concept that the regulation lays down the financial obligations of citizens. It would be good if, for at least the first two years of the term of office, we could get a report on how many implementing rules are prescribed by the laws, adopted within which the laws have been laid down and how many do not. You know, these are the provisions of the law, which state that the minister in charge of, say, the work will pass the rule within three months, six months, and then the second minister will pass within eight months and that the control of the adoption of the implementing rules was obviously not at the cabinet meetings, because he would probably have noticed that more than 50% of those regulations were not passed within the deadline laid down by law, and that the Government did not ask the Parliament to extend the deadlines prescribed by the Parliament. And then we are in a situation where those who need to enforce laws, bodies with public authority, administrative bodies, state administration, local and regional self-government, laws cannot be implemented. So I remind you of one such example when we changed the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, that this Parliament passed a law under which the issue of building and location permits is no longer a matter of state administration but of regional self-government, county. Is therefore the issue of local and construction permits transferred to the county as bodies of regional self-government? It's not. Because transitional and final provisions prescribed that other regulations and sublegal acts would be adopted within six months. It's been two times six months, there's no other legal changes or implementing sublaws, and we have a strange situation that one law speaks of local self-government, and the Law of Construction is another. We have two competent bodies. Have we changed the Law on the Communist Economy and given authority to citizens, cities to implement the Law on Local Self-Government? We didn't. Have we changed the Law on the roads by which the management and maintenance of city roads is the jurisdiction of the city? No, and it's been a year and more than that. It would be good to get a report on the number and composition of decisions, the content of decisions, i.e. acts taken by institutions with public authority, with prior consent from the Government or the Minister, and they would probably then be able to see that the Croatian Health Insurance Office has in these two and a half years made exactly 85 regulations and decisions, administrative board of institutions, with the previous consent of the Government or the Minister of Health, which is most directly governed by the health rights of the insurance company and the obligations of the institutions, in which relations are most directly regulated, the way hospital financing is financed. They would then probably see that hospital budgets do not stem from the Health Insurance Act of Article 87(1), which deals with hospitals refer and call rather than that the content of the contract to health institutions is in fact the basis of the decision of the Management Board of the Institute of Health Insurance which was made with the previous consent of the Minister. Then they would realize that the gross salaries of the institution are in the budget of the institution based on that decision, and not the law, and then they would realize that we can influence the Croatian Institute to separate gross staff costs from the budget of the institutions and pay directly from the Treasury as is the case in the light of the case. Well, we probably wouldn't have a billion-and-a-half debts to hospitals right now, big drugstores. But unfortunately, the Parliament has no influence, because it's decommissioned in that part. And when a report and the government's relationship with these regulations are sought, the government says there is no need to consider what colleagues from the HSS have proposed. And finally, the fact that there is no one who has the right to speak for the government when we discuss this, surprises me. For example, on 6 October last year, the Croatian Parliament concluded that it had committed the government to submit a report to the Parliament every six months on how Croatia withdraws funds from pre-accession funds. On October 6, last year, do you remember that report, how much money we pulled from pre-accession funds? What's the situation about how we're prepared and how much money we've used? It's the Parliament's conclusion. On 15 December of last year, the parliament concluded on a proposal from the HDZ Club that it obliges the government to propose a new Privatisation Act to the Parliament within 90 days. December 15th and 90 days. The new Privatisation Act and the Public Private Partnership Act. Did we get it? We didn't. This is the conclusion of the Parliament. The government didn't ask for an extension. On 19 November 2004, the Parliament concluded that it obliges the Government to draw up, as soon as possible, a full analysis of the material situation of people with disabilities, in particular from the aspect of their pensions and how they convert the status of persons with disabilities into pensioners. 19th November 2004 as soon as possible. Now I realize that the shortest possible deadline means at least two years. Obviously, the only way for the Parliament to influence what the Government is implementing or not implementing the implementing regulations, regulations and regulations will be so that we no longer adopt any law saying that the minister has any authority in its implementation but that all of this must be an integral part of the law. Because the purpose, purpose and essence of the law is clearly only when ministers adopt implementing rules. Because of the application of the rules, because of the quality assessment of the changes needed, it would be extremely useful for Parliament to have a review of the rules adopted that are not within the deadline, to extend the deadlines or to force them to finally do so. These are the reasons why we will support the proposal of our colleagues from the HSS, to vote in favour of this proposal of conclusions, with a real regret that the government's relationship with Parliament is visible to anyone who could and could address Parliament at the moment not to be dramatic but to demand and respect for Parliament by the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66527	I informed the Parliament that they were not the present minister and secretary of state and found that unfortunately, it was a lot of times so far only some of them, they were affected by amnesia, so they don't remember it. That's no excuse, of course, that today the representatives of the ministry are not competent, but what you're repeating is dramatic. The HSS Club Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66528	Dear Mr. Vice President, doministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, allow a few words on behalf of the HSS Club on the proposal for this conclusion. At first, I would repeat what Mr. Vice President said, if it wasn't for the first time that it was happening to us that there were no government representatives at some points, and it's not any drama, it's just a finding that we're going to have to, it seems, more and more often repeat every time it happens to us that there are no government officials here. We also found this on the Legislative Committee the other day when it was one of the points mentioned here, which we have observed many times before. I thank Mr. Vice President for having said this twice already, and it's not dramatic, but it really shows in which relationship we're agents when we're talking about some issues, whether or not it's from the government, whether we're from the opposition, and we've had cases that we're about important issues, that we haven't even had anyone here in line. They're professional people who can explain certain things, but we've had cases as important as the demining issue we talked about yesterday, the last time we talked about it was nobody. And we've done that point, and then we're surprised after a year when we see that we've done a little bit, that this job isn't going at the pace that it's going to go to. And that's why I accept the HSP Club's proposal that we may have been too mild in assessing these conclusions and the proposal for a conclusion. Which means when we pass most of the laws by emergency procedure, especially those laws that have the code "P.Z.E." which must be adopted in order to comply with the European Union. In any case, it certainly is necessary to bring them in on time, but it happens to us that we do other laws per month, and then it comes to us on a bunch of European laws. That means we're not in the timing that's been proposed and who's supposed to be, who's agreed on when we're going to talk about what proposal. Which means when we pass one law as was the case with the forest law a few months ago, and now it has a mark." P.Z.E."and after that we get changes and additions in a few months that don't have that tag. Do, here I welcome the secretary of state who joined us, and here we now have an authorised proposing, in the name of the Government, an authorized person who can speak. Which means when that law changes and complements without "P.Z.E.""? It means he's not in sync. Which means we didn't comply with the signed conventions and the signatures of the international contracts we had in the meantime. Such proposals should probably not be submitted to the procedure before they are agreed. Which means that some rule in some law will be passed in two years, as was the proposal of the Animal Wellbeing Act the other day. In 2 years there will probably be elections, there will be a new government, there will probably be a new law in the process of some other government that will then be in power. Such a way of making decisions, the law in Parliament, where, after the sublaws, it will all be changed, I think, on our part and as a representative, it is irresponsible. Because in this way we are not responsible for our voters who voted for us, and often changing decisions, regulations that are later made, and then after certain pressures for 10, 15 days, their change as was the case with the financing regulation, which is related to the Water Economy Financing Act where we pointed out that this regulation is an additional imposition against all citizens. I would repeat, in the first regulation that was passed after the law that we have passed here, that fee was terribly large. Following certain pressures that were at the time, which accidentally coincided with the failure of some incentives and others, this Regulation was reduced in one part alone. But I can assure you it's still a great imposition, that it still needs to be singled out for one normal family house just for that fee, 20 thousand kuna, that for one production plant from some thousand cubic pounds of volume should be allocated over 30 thousand kuna. That, too, about 30 thousand kunas should be set aside for the construction of the church, etc. Although this fee has been reduced, although it is allowed to be paid on a regular basis, it is one expenditure that we can roughly compare with the value of all the permits needed and the construction of a project for such a single building. It's around here somewhere. So, with one regulation, the government has adopted a regulation that automatically collects the value of these objects for some 3 to 5% of what the value of some work is of the project documentation. So those of us who are doing something right now, no colleagues from Boras, the other day we discussed it on the Legislative Committee, we agreed that it was an additional cost increase. And no one can convince me, nod my head that it's not. It's an additional increase in the cost of construction. I do not doubt that these regulations should be resolved in a different way, but their adoption and after 10 days of changing says that we did not have to worry about the regulation itself, because we did not have a calculation of how we could have changed our mind in 10 days. So we didn't do the right thing by making it, that we didn't valorize all the moments we needed to make such a regulation and that we wouldn't have to change it. And only its adoption stops at a large number of investments, makes people work partly illegally, try to excitate that fee in some way, and that wasn't the goal or the intensity of the law. Therefore, in such a way, they should simply not adopt regulations, and the proposal for a conclusion proposed here would commit to the Government and perhaps even extend it to regularly bring reports here, on a regular basis, to report on what the HNS Club has proposed, and it seems to me that the Government regularly reports which memos have been passed by law, and should have been brought whether they have been made within a certain period or were later made and to report to us on this. It is to be published in the People's Newspaper, but it would be good to have a transparent state every six months that has been brought in, which is not and within what time it will be brought. And the second question is, is it based on the laws that we're making here, whether or not the government's regulation can the state administration implement everything that we need? I personally know from experience when I was mayor of Bjelovar County that we often received laws that only transferred some powers, and the financial resources remained somewhere else and thus created a burden on the administration of the local down there that she carried out certain things, these fellow mayors know who were here, that we had always trouble getting directions about what we had to do, but the funds for it are gone, so then we try to fix it with our decisions, the county congregations. He's got a whole series of fire departments on him, right? Therefore, it would be good to have the regularity of the report delivered by the Government to the Parliament here given us the opportunity to monitor everything that has been brought, which has not been brought, and within what time it will be brought. And on the other hand, when we talk about it, let's say we have cases that some state property isn't being taken to the balance sheet today. I will give an example that the value of forest and forest land property, which is an estimate of some 40 billion kuna, is only run off-balance sheet in the Croatian forests d.o.o. That's a question for the foresters, too. We changed the law, but we didn't specify where that property was going to go. It's inconceivable that today,... That 40 billion kunas are not run on the balance sheet but off-balance sheet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not right, is it? This should therefore also be the case when certain decisions are made, the Government Regulations should in particular state which is the institution that will lead such value, because it is inconceivable that such a high value is not kept in official statistics but beyond that. Therefore, clearly everything that I have stated here, the HSS club supports the proposal for this conclusion, which our colleagues have presented here, and we expect that in the future we have a better, clearer definition, that we have in time the regulation, the government's decisions, that they do not change the meaning of the law, but that we can properly implement everything we have here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66529	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, since you've made an objection to my intervention, I'm obliged to give an explanation. First, the government did not propose this item of the agenda. Secondly, the government gave an opinion on this item of the agenda and thus obtained the conditions for discussion in the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course I will be one of those who will certainly give the Government a proper objection if he is not a competent representative of the Government at a session of the Croatian Parliament. It is being discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and as much as I consider it unnecessary dramatization. Thank you very much. I would like to inform the members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture that the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Petar Selem, called a meeting of the Committee at 13 o'clock in the hall "Anta Starčević" 149. It's up to the IDS Club and Mr. Representative Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66530	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with colleagues from the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Given that colleagues from the HSS have explained very closely these short conclusions of the IDS club, they will support this proposal for a conclusion that is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on the policy adopted, i.e. by non-legislative acts. In the IDS Club, we also believe that regulations, regulations and other sublaws of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry may provide provisions of operational and technical, but not financial, especially if they weigh several hundred million kunas. This fact indicates that the role of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the executive power has been neglected, and since some laws are undefined or undefined, under the laws of the Government the essential decisions are made, in breach of the regulations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, with such a proposal for a conclusion given with an explanation and after a detailed explanation by the IDS club promoters, it will in any case support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66531	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. She is the first female representative of Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the same time, I thank Mr. Secretary of State for coming to this House's session to hear this debate and for not being on the official road as reported by the Vice-President of the Parliament as the reason for your absence. So here we are discussing a proposal for conclusions that may not be common in this Croatian Assembly, and if I was in the mandate in the previous year, and this is the sixth year we have not discussed these proposals until today, and it is good to debate because their need and discussion has already been pointed out by the law-making process. We have recently particularly passed laws that were generally principled, which were unarranged, which we have indicated are inconclusive, that they are in conflict with some other laws, that we create one confusion of the system and that the confusion of the system will adversely affect all life in the Republic of Croatia from economic, social, political, etc. Despite our remarks, this has never been heard, but there is always reason whether the Government will resolve the sublaws, rules, rules, rules, etc. That's not news in legislative practice. The legislative practice of each system knows the regulations under the law, but nowhere in the world does it happen that these sublaws actually represent something that is outside the law and with such behaviour, the Government of the Republic of Croatia actually takes the legislative role of this Parliament. This is nowhere in the world, but unfortunately in Croatia it happened. So I'm the name, we're the legislative authority, the government's executive authority that corresponds to parliament is simply saying that it's simply impossible to prosecute jurisdiction. I know that someone might also want to disprove the accuracy of what I have said, but here is the regulation already mentioned today on the level of water contribution, in fact, most vividly shows that the intention, the intention of the legislator is being misused, and that the government is taking its powers legally under the law because we have changed the amendments to the Water Economy Financing Act to Article 8 and said that the level of water contribution will be determined by the government regulation. At that time, however, no one even made a simulation of the law, no one could assume that with so much insensitiveness for the reality in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia live, but also with which the economy of the Republic of Croatia is struggling, the government will make a decision whose consequences are to stop, completely stop all investments, invest in entrepreneurship, investment just if you want in the private sector. I mean the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What happened, what was prescribed by that regulation was a direct blow to the citizens who now had to pay several tens of thousands of kuna for the water contribution before the start of construction and on the owners that I do not speak because there were up to several hundred thousand kunas. It is paradoxical that the water contribution is also paid at the construction of kindergartens, paid for the construction of hospitals, paid for the construction of nursing homes, paid for the construction of churches, roads, infrastructures, etc. And it even went so far in this insensitivity that it was neglected that the Law on Areas of Special State Care recognized in Croatia some areas with difficult management conditions. This Regulation did not exempt those areas either, but the level of the water contribution was the same for all. And then we ask ourselves, "What are some of the other laws that we have taken in encouraging measures that we've stimulated the businessmen to come into areas of special state care to keep the population in these areas?" Unfortunately, this regulation was insensitive, this Regulation did not make a difference. And after we have received an opinion on these conclusions proposals, the government actually shows by changing its regulation that it has made a mistake and that they have made a bad move. However, the bad move had adverse consequences. And I wonder how foreign investors will gain courage, come to invest in Croatia when they are faced with complete uncertainty in Croatia. So why aren't there laws in Croatia? In the world laws are implemented, however, laws are not implemented in Croatia because when we film, when we comply with our laws with the laws of the European Union, then we will find that they are very similar, not to say that the most part is prescribed and that we have equal laws. These laws are applicable in the European Union, in Croatia they are not applicable. So because we adopt laws and supplement laws too often, we do not leave room for practice and usually the right to crystallise certain practices. Such a nightmare of the law can no longer be dealt with by those who are obliged to enforce those laws. And what's the consequence? The result is the legal uncertainty of our citizens, not just citizens, but legal uncertainty and entrepreneurs. And as long as we deal with this legal uncertainty, as long as we don't look at the truth and reality in the eyes that we have to make one system that is completely clear, which is all applicable, for which I don't need to know what philosophy and it's impossible to interpret in each individual case in a specific way by then we won't be able to hope for any more courageous entrepreneurial activities in the Republic of Croatia. And now watch out, here by virtue of the Water Contribution Fund Act, the Government is very soon within a month and six days, so 36 days of the regulation, that regulation has made both citizens and entrepreneurs bitter. You know who was to blame in front of the citizens? We were to blame because it was said that the law was passed by the Croatian Parliament, and you and I as MPs are faced with the indignation of citizens. Neither you nor I wanted when we passed such a law to burden our citizens in such large amounts. We've been to pay for the water contribution but. ... I'm talking to my colleagues now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we have been to pay for some water contribution, however not in such an inappropriate and high way. So, here the government intervenes quickly and very quickly brings the regulation and you know somewhere in the 11th month of 2004 it is concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt a regulation on the sale of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia and there is no such regulation until today. And why have we reached such a conclusion? Well, we brought it because we wanted all those business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, and now they're untapped and mostly devastated, and every day they're falling more and more. We wanted to put him in the position of fostering the economy. There is no such regulation. What does that mean? Those regulations, which are useful for economic life in the Republic of Croatia and also useful for citizens, are unfortunately not adopted by the Government. Regulations that only fill the state budget and one state cannot and must not think only about how it will fill the state budget because it must first and foremost think about the general good of its citizens, and these regulations are being adopted very quickly. These regulations do not last long, though. Under public pressure, under public indignation, these regulations are then amended. So why don't we, with a little less fire, bring in sublegal acts in time, in time, but sublegal acts that will give life to the laws and that, which will facilitate and control the implementation of these laws. And because of what I have said, this proposal for conclusions is also needed for these reasons, and I am in favour of making these conclusions in order to contribute to the creation of a secure system that will be attractive to all those we need very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66533	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lalic, you have objected to me that I have informed the Parliament that the State Secretary and Minister are on their way. As you know, I don't sign travel orders and I don't control who goes on the official trip. That's the kind of notice I got, and that's what I gave you here. So... That's how I informed you, and I don't think there is, it's not excluded that the gentleman has just returned from his official trip, I don't know. [[Intruder: But it wasn't an objection.]] [[All right, all right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66534	I didn't object, I just thanked.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66535	It's Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66536	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. To which absurdity can be brought by individual laws, sublaws and regulations I will try to illustrate on another example. I'll show it on the bridges. Yes, not only did the Turks charge bridges but we also charge bridges in the Republic of Croatia. It is specifically about the Law on Public Roads where sublaws are prescribed compensation for the use of road land and follow-up activities are prescribed. But the following activities are not only gas stations along the highways, they are not only motels, cafes have become all that joins the public road. And you are prescribed that you must build a bridge of such size and such and the bridge is nothing more than the part that connects the public road with your building particle so that you can come into it at all and then you are prescribed a monthly fee per square metre. A monthly fee that may be on one highway and for a gas station that pays 1500 kuna and is not big. But in one area of special concern such as the Rough Field when you have to pay a bridge of 1500 kuna with more VAT, and by the way, I'm going to say that it's more than the rent of a business space is certainly something that will make investment and construction impossible in that area. Or I would like to end the caricature on a case where a young entrepreneur has applied precisely for accession in terms of obtaining approval, that he can make a bridge and get a decision that really needs to pay 1,500 kunas a month, which he calculated for his life span of these 6 meters times 5 means 30 square meters, for his lifetime it would be 400 thousand kuna, and the total investment for 5 jobs was supposed to be 300 thousand kuna. Normally, he thanked for such an investment because it is illogical for Croatia to collect bridges. This is even more tragic and can be even more caricated when it is known that certain counties and individual Croatian roads in one area apply, on another. While you in one county really want to get the connection, you must also have a contract that you have already concluded with the Croatian roads and ready to pay the bridge of another county for it. And so one maybe good law destroys and also what Ljubica said rejects our investors. Only while this is about a water contribution and several thousand kunas burdening the investment, this is really about the amounts of monthly income that are very often said and the amount of one personal income because I have to say that areas of special state care besides the unemployed have average salaries between 1500 and 2000 kuna. Therefore, we are again again accused in the Parliament that we have passed such a law to pay for the bridge. But no, we passed the Law on Public Roads. We have come to pay compensation for the use of roadland as well as for accompanying activities. We have left it to the Croatian roads to decide what the accompanying activities are and for them is the accompanying activity and every grocery store in every village, the smallest settlement. And let's not forget that state roads go through small settlements somewhere and that there must also pay the bridge as the one on the highway pays and no, I don't understand how there can be a grocery store, with food products that only supply the settlement and the accompanying activity of a state road, and therefore we led to absurdities. And believe me, they're talking to us right now, blaming us for bridges, and so I think that the state should be more serious about sublegal acts that are often in contradiction or conflict with basic, basic law, and that I'm not talking about how late they are or how unacceptable they are when they're brought in, and are not a reflection of what we're supposed to achieve here in Parliament. So I am really joining this conclusion that the Government should be more considerate and that it should report on how certain rules are resuscitating on the ground and what problems they are creating. And as general rules apply to the territory of all Croatia, and not in certain counties, what I say still causes differences, but also burdens new investments, it burdens entrepreneurship that we constantly claim is not enough in Croatia, and here we ourselves, not here in the Parliament, but our own acts are those that are often guilty of stopping one investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66537	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Jakša Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66538	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the subject of the competence of the present officials has been opened here, which I do not think is at all a subject and should not be called a problem. So neither did I realize that someone put that problem up. But let's say you read the proposal for a conclusion that reads like this. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on the policy adopted, i.e. by not passing individual acts under the law to the Croatian Parliament during the 19th session of the Croatian Parliament. And if you look at the government's answer, the explanation, then you'll see that it's actually talking to deaf phones here. In its explanation, the government wrote everything about what the government wrote, the Ministry and Croatian Water wrote everything about the water contribution, so they signed an explanation when the law was passed and some others, and probably some additional arguments related to the regulation itself, to the question of MPs in the Assembly, and did not respond to what the HSS Club had proposed. Namely, what's this about? The goal, it seems to me, is that every government's goal would be to make as few regulations as possible, less under the laws and as definitively as possible, complete matter as possible by the laws themselves. And what do we have? We have the opposite. Undefined laws that are defined after various legal acts. There are regulations that I don't know, I'm not a lawyer and to tell you the truth, I'm not even bureaucrats, so I don't know how long they can last. But let's say that you now have one regulation that is two years old until almost August 2004. The regulation on spatial regulation, which has a weight greater than any law, is according to it, which in any way denies all that has been defined by previous laws or laws, and then defines whether the line from the sea line is 70 m, where any construction is prohibited, it defines a kilometre from the coastal line, so you can't on any island or anywhere on the coast because it's all behind the Velebit, behind Mosor, behind Kozjak. It's a mile of airline. Therefore, nothing could be done without, except those who had the permits of location or construction before the regulation itself. And no one knows how long that regulation will last. I don't know. It's possible someone knows, but only in their head knows. Now about the water contribution. I'll repeat what I've said so far. Imagine that we live in some promised land where we no longer have the construction of plumbing, or the construction of houses, or the construction of apartments, where we are all, we all live the way everyone wants to live. So we have what we need. Honey and milk flow, but there's no investment building because you built it all. But the same streams flow to you, and the rain falls, and those dikes that are by the river, which are also meant to be maintained from the flood, and now according to this logic that you've set here, you don't have any kunas to maintain these dikes. Because there's no investment. But the same thing is to protect and build roads, built settlements, and I'm just saying this as extreme as how illogical this is, and as much as I repeat it, I have no illusion that I'm going to change it. Because thank God, democracy works by the principle of the majority, and most of them have the right and the greatest nonsense to put into law and regulation, and that's their right. You're probably carrying responsibility at the sources, but I'm just going back to this point. So that the prime minister came here and he answered, and this water contribution is just a cause for a lot of things. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Then I wouldn't, I wouldn't even discuss it, I wouldn't say a word, but no. Nor did it become clear what the HSS Club wanted, and even less came to terms with the problem of trying to explain it properly. It seems to me that it is one style, one boast that is incomprehensible to me. But good. I'll accept it because there's nothing I repeat the illusion that I can change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66539	Thank you very much. Does a government official want to take a word for it? State Secretary, Mr. Herman. Herman Sušnik, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. After these discussions, they can repeat the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a conclusion which is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on the policy by adopting, or by not adopting individual acts under the laws implemented by the Association of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament for the following reasons. The claim that the content of the Regulation on the level of water compensation here is essentially related to the Regulation on the level of water contribution is extremely harmful to all investors in the Republic of Croatia because it will cause the absence of any investment in the Republic of Croatia, resulting in illegal construction, and the assumption that the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot adopt regulations of financial nature is not acceptable. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation on the level of water contribution, and later amended and supplemented in accordance with its legal powers under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act adopted in December last year. In determining tariffs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made sure that at least new construction of residential areas was burdened, the construction of production plants introduced an even more special, more favourable tariff for building a permanent living space on islands, and the most burdened construction of a business space that is not in the production function. It is also a service sector for building houses and apartments for vacation. The division into three zones stems from the fact that certain areas of the Republic of Croatia have more protection than floods and floods. This requires greater funds to maintain the flood defense system and thus to increase the value of real estate in these areas. Furthermore, the Minister responsible for the water economy has also adopted a Regulation on the accounting and payment of water contribution enabling the payment of water contribution in meals. The water contribution is the only resource needed to maintain flood defence systems and facilities, which is one of the most effective in Europe. And any delay in the regular maintenance of these would be an extremely irresponsible relationship to one of the country's greatest material treasures. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also reports that it is the same in the procedure and will soon be brought forward. And the same thing that Mrs. Prosecution said about public roads and this bridge charge. If there are such cases, I don't know about them. Let them be said and the Government will certainly review such provisions if we see from this exhibit that they exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66541	Thank you. In conclusion, Mr Bozidar Pankretić, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66542	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Well, here's the end of this debate. I'm going to find out what the secretary of state said in the end. Mr. Secretary of State you have read the opinion of the Government which is an opinion on reasons and in some ways reasons, but not an opinion on the conclusions. Our conclusions are clear and they ask the government to submit a report, to report us here in the Croatian Parliament, explain, respond. In the explanation it is spoken objectively of the regulations we are calling upon, fellow MPs here spoke of a number of other sublegal acts in which I would say a similar situation occurred. But unfortunately, I have to say that we do not have the government's answer, that the government does not want to report to the Parliament, that it does not feel necessary, that the laws that have been passed are good, that they have seen what happens later or that we already knew what the regulation would be when we passed this law. I would say that in this opinion, too, it is evident that the government has also called for the correctness of the decision that has been made six days after the opinion was sent. When we are also here I must say we have, for example, I will mention one but I think it is extremely important and I think that we should really take account of it, the roof law on agriculture was very clear and it has been determined that every year it is necessary to give this Croatian Parliament a report on the situation in agriculture. A popular report called the Green Report, and unfortunately two years ago, it has not been here in Parliament. As much as I have information, it's getting ready, getting ready. I sincerely hope that the obligation that stands in the law will be fulfilled. So we have on one side the obligations arising from the law, which are sublegal acts, which are rules, which are not implemented. On the other hand, we have regulations, sublegal acts that are being implemented, which essentially change or bring certain things that are not good. Here I would say the intention of the Croatian Peasant Party was still to really put the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia into real relations for this time now and for all future times. It is not disputed that the government, the executive authority, has the right, has the legal possibility to pass regulations, that ministers have to adopt sublegal acts. But I think that we all agree here without distinctions which have been discussed or those who have not discussed that this Parliament would at least be worthy of a report on the existing things relating to such regulations, on such regulations and on which to discuss them in a certain way. That is why I believe that this conclusion will be supported and that in some ways here is really put in place the relationship between the government, the executive authority and this highest legislative body, which is the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66543	I would like to thank the applicant's representative. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66544	Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the state of the company "Vjesnik" d.d., "Vjesnik Naklada" d.o.o. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. Interpelling the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the state of the company "Vesnik" d.d. and "Vesenik Publishing" d.o.o. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 66 for closure, 2 abstentions, 18 against. With most of the proposed conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit a detailed report on the policy which is being adopted, i.e. by not adopting certain sublegal acts. The proposed conclusion is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion which is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a detailed report on a policy which, by adopting or not adopting certain sublegal acts, is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 75 for and 15 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66545	And when the conditions come to pass, we'll vote. We move on to - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Treaty establishing a European Molecular Biology Laboratory, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 505 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And when we set up the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr Drazen Vicic Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I'll tell you soon enough. In fact, it is an extraordinary situation that we are proposed as the 19th member of the European Molecular Biology Laboratories. It is one, in fact, one organization, one project that has expired from European Molecular Biology Conference, and has one whole series of actually organisations dealing with molecular biology in Europe. It's important to us for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is that we are investing in the European Community and this cooperation is of course going to help this stronger cooperation between the academic community of scientists and people dealing with technologies and applications. The other thing is there's one big chance that we can get one of those labs. And when we talk about the lab, it's actually one whole research institute in the field of molecular biology. Such institutes have 5 in Europe right now, in 5 member states. And this is completely off the record now, but if we get it it might then go to a campus in Rijeka because there is now the most, as I would say, the strongest swing in molecular biology in Croatia. So that was actually the reason to go to an emergency procedure because now in the 7th month in Heidelberg there will be a NBC conference where it will then be considered what Croatia did in terms of, since it was proposed her candidacy last year in November, what she did from that period, right. And that's why you're going to this emergency procedure, no. The funds are secured in the budget. It is the membership fee of 85,000 euros, cca, and they are secured in the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here, that would be brief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66547	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66548	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will absolutely support this bill but let us comment on some of the elements of the opening argument that we received on the benches so as not to get the impression that we really do not know anything in this area and that we do not want to participate correctly in this whole process. Namely, it can first comment on the fact that we are going with this Act by emergency procedure. My colleagues and colleagues, if you had time to review the material, you noticed that the European Conference for Molecular Biology was founded back in 1969. So, 37 years ago, even more, and a few months ago. Therefore, the fact that all the Ministers of Science have not intervened so far in 2006 when we are at the door of the European Union is now an emergency procedure. In fact, it is a technology that is extremely useful for the economy of these 10 countries that founded this conference that has already understood in 69, that application in practice, in their economy, of these technologies, is going to be very important and they are moving into this joint big project. I was in France for a year back in 1981, working on a scientific project, and then the French Minister of Science and Education had three scientific areas he considered priority. For who? Priority for the French economy. They were fibro-optic fibers because they couldn't quantify the signal through the fibers at the time, so they needed to be cleavaged. It was a semi-manufacturer for the electrical engineering industry and it was genetic engineering, so this is what we're discussing here. So, the French Minister of Science realized the priority of this area 25 years ago and encouraged this research, and here we are, I repeat, in 2006 suddenly after an emergency procedure on something that has long been known and something that is extremely useful. Secondly, it is said that we will invest more clearly in the field of science. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatia invests 1.1% of its gross social product in research today. Slovenians 1.7%, Germany 2.5%, and Sweden as much as 3.5%. The European Union that we are about to enter requires Member States to single out 3% of the GDP's research work by 2010. This is an absolutely unattainable goal for Croatia. No matter what it says or what we say or what we do. Because clearly, we have long gone to what Europe recognized, unfortunately not a day ago, it seems to me, we cannot understand the importance of these individual research, especially those applied. What are the primary goals of avoiding duplication in research? This common European research area wants to save, therefore, not to repeat the same story in different places but to agree on who will investigate and then we will make a quick exchange of information so that everyone in Europe can use this information. In order to, thirdly, work on the teaching of scientific youth, especially through the rapid mobility of scientists, especially those younger ones who will thus be able to pass on these new technologies to their countries, new discoveries. And the fourth, perhaps most importantly, is the implementation, therefore, of application to economic life, in practice of these new technologies. There have been other countries that have made mistakes or have not recognized the importance of these researches. For example, in the days of Reagan in America, he even banned research into genetic engineering. However, it took them only a few years to understand the harsh mistake they have made and to clearly pursue Europe, and today we know what this technology means especially in the pharmaceutical industry. 40 years ago, enzymes have been detected that allow us to clearly intervene and break the genome, so that we can insert into that genome gene from another organism, some harmless bacteria, for example, into its genome a human insulin gene that determines human insulin and that bacteria will start producing insulin. We can also produce countless other biological products for the needs of biomedicine, pharmaceutical industry and other areas. Therefore, since we really can't, you yourself already know that on this text of the international treaty we can't intervene, we can't change a single word. We can accept or give up on accepting it. The HNS suggests that we accept it only remains the bitter question why only now after 37 years since the conference was established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66549	Thank you very much to Mr. Doric, and as there is no one to replace me here at the presidential table, otherwise I would strongly support on behalf of the HDZ Club this proposal because we have great scientists, we have a top Mr. Radman who, unfortunately, has not been elected as a member of the academy. We have therefore, top scientists and this accession of Croatia I think it is more and more time, as Mr Doric pointed out. And of course, we all agree that we can support this. Here, it's me, I'm sorry I should be saying that at the pay phone, but here we go, okay? Does Mr. Prime Minister want to say something? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66550	The final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of a contract for the establishment of a European Molecular Biology Laboratory is an emergency procedure. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66551	and we move to - - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention for the Regulation of whaling, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 498 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda they accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. The proposal for an act has been adopted in boxes pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Mr. Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me just add a few more notes to this proposal. Namely, this Convention is a final in composing all international rules on nature protection in the Croatian legal system. So at this point, the only convention that is not confirmed by the Republic of Croatia. And another note. Since he often asks what we have to do with whales and whaling to just point out that there are 10 kinds of whales in the Adriatic, and only two species of origin, which is a good dolphin and a small dolphin, and precisely for the protection of these species, we ratify this Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66553	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr. Representative Marko Širac on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66554	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. At its 40th session held on 1 June 2006, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention for the Regulation of Kitols with the Final Proposal for the Law, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Law in question as the home working body. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure. In his opening statement, the proposing representative noted that by joining this Convention, the Republic of Croatia expressed its view on the need for global cooperation on the protection of world natural resources threatened by the destruction of species and habitats. It is pointed out that 10 species of whales appear in the Adriatic Sea, some of which are occasional Mediterranean guests while only two species are good and a small dolphin of our original species. The Council of the International whaling Commission can provide significant assistance and cooperation to Croatian scientists and state institutions engaged in the protection of whales and dolphins in the Adriatic and the management of populations and wild and endangered marine species. In fact, through the Council, high quality scientific programmes can be realised and the resources available can be used. The Committee discussed the issue of the protection and preservation of the current situation and the number of our native species of good and small dolphins. The promoter noted that in the preparation of a solution by the competent ministry on the preventive protection of the Lošinj aquarium, which would prevent this habitat of good dolphins from being protected for a period of 3 years. In that part, significant cooperation with the fisheries management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy. All necessary activities would be carried out in the next 3 years to produce a professional background, public participation, public insight procedures and similar to those for the declaration of the Lošinj aquarium in the category of special reservation in the sea. It is pointed out that special reserve management is implemented on the basis of a management plan and would be arranged with it and the fishing activity with respect to the needs of the local population. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Regulation of whaling. Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66555	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66556	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry. As far as this proposal for an emergency law on the International Convention for the Regulation of whaling with the Final Proposal of the Law has nothing to say or add, I think it is necessary for Croatia to go to this signing. However, I wanted to highlight here some things that are not here in this bill, which I think we should not only know in the Croatian Parliament but also in the general public. In fact, in the Adriatic Sea there is a project for dolphins and the longest resistance of the good dolphin community in the Mediterranean Sea is the only one known in the Adriatic. Projects run by the "blue World" and scientific research is conducted in collaboration with the Croatian Museum of Natural History. The aim of the project is to explore dolphins living in the Lošinj, Cresska archipelago and protection of dolphins and marine environments through the rise of environmental awareness to the public through lectures, media performances, cooperation with other environmentalists... organizations and individuals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The project includes different aspects from daily research at sea to the organisation of the Dolphin Day in Veli Losinj. At this moment, we have a situation that in the very centre of the future protected area of the zero marina, which would result in the complete destruction of the dolphin habitat in the area of Losinj, and thus by the disappearance of dolphins from our area and we know that the State Institute for Nature Protection has submitted a request for the establishment of preventive protection of dolphin reserves in the area. So, at this point, we have a situation that there is a real danger that the only part of Croatia where the records are kept and where dolphin protection is taken care of is the danger. If we know that there is no research in the south of the Adriatic, or how many dolphins would be known and how many species then we can understand that this is a real danger that we should all put together to point to it and to the competent ministries to ask them to rush the regulation of the law that would really make a dolphin reserve. That's one thing and I think that should be within this point, I would suggest that on all ships, yachts and those who take the boat to give a mandatory instruction on how to behave near dolphins, at which proximity should be approached, etc. so that it would not come to them that they would be afraid, and with the young they would go into greater depths. And if we know that the ships are in their way, especially the people who drive those ships and don't know how to behave, it happens that dolphins that live by the islands have to go to the depths and at that very moment they have young ones. Therefore, I would ask the competent ministries or who is already in charge of giving a behavioral program near dolphins when the ship comes across them. That's a very short instruction. I don't think that would be a problem. I'm not going to read it here, but I think by doing this, it would help us not only to pass laws and conventions of order but to bring it back to life on the ground and to act accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66557	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Antolovic want it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the next point. Explain why we're skipping the Sports Act. Because there's no condition because the parent board didn't discuss it. And then it's also with the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs on Sports Competitions and the Proposal for a Law on Theatres, Final draft law confirming the international convention for the regulation of whaling. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The proposed law was passed unanimously with 92 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66559	So we move on to the next point. - Proposal for a law on the Croatian Defence Foundation from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 497 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mr Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66560	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have before you a proposal for the foundation of Croatian defenders. This bill is closely linked to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. Namely, the provision of the law of the Croatian defenders' fund provides that one third of the net profits will be invested in humanitarian and social programmes, and that is precisely the reason for the establishment of this foundation, i.e. the purpose of improving the material, economic and social status of the most vulnerable Croatian defenders, so financial assistance for life insurance, for socially endangered families, for health care, treatment, assistance after the death of Croatian defenders, for the acquisition of first occupation, overqualification, employment, self-employment and others. In other words, this foundation will very much help Croatian defenders who do not have the right under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. The founder of the foundation is the Republic of Croatia and the founding rights and obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Foundation has legal personality status. The Foundation will be managed by a board of directors who will have seven members. The members shall be appointed by the Government and, on a proposal from the Board of Directors of the Four-member Defence Fund, one member of the War Veterans Committee, one representative of the Defence Ministry and one representative of the Ministry of Social Care. The term of office of members of the Management Board shall be four years. The basic property of the foundation is 100 thousand kuna and the foundation will be financed from basic assets, part of a third of the net profits of the Croatian Defence Fund, gifts and other incomes. In other words, it is not necessary to provide for any financial means to implement this law since it is already secured through one-third of the net profit of the Croatian Defence Fund and the Government's decision under the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund found that 60% of that one-third of the net will be directed into the foundation of Croatian defenders, at this point it is worth 25 million kuna. Of course, every following year, 60% of the net will be directed into the foundation of Croatian defenders from that one-third of the net. Therefore, the fundamental purpose and purpose of this law, the bill's proposal is to improve the material, economic and social position of the most vulnerable Croatian defenders and their families. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66561	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Three committees have discussed it. No, I don't. On behalf of the board? Okay. On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66562	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Proposal for a Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Proposal for a Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 22nd session held on 1 June 2006 discussed the proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and Children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. And the proposal for a law on the Croatian Defence Foundation from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 17 May 2006. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body pursuant to Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee has conducted a joint discussion on these points of the agenda on the grounds that both drafts of the law address similar issues and funding is provided for from the same sources. The session, meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives of associations from the Homeland War. According to the representatives of the legislator, the establishment of a Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War will give rise to assumptions for better social status of students, students, graduates of postgraduate studies who exercise the right to a scholarship if they meet the legal assumptions for obtaining a scholarship. if the monthly income per household member does not exceed a double censorship of 30% of the established budget base. That's it. the amount of kuna 1995 per member of the family. The establishment of the Fund shall also comply with the legal provisions laid down in Article 55. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The foundation of a foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families will allow for improvement of the material and social status of socially endangered Croatian defenders and members of their families. The Law itself on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has not solved some specific problems of a part of the defence population such as: unemployment in several defence families, facing serious illnesses of family members. Crossing over the resources in self-employment of defenders. An unsatisfactory housing situation that cannot be solved through law and so forth. The funding will mainly be made through the distribution of a third of the net to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, in a way that 60% will be allocated to the Foundation and 40% to the Fund. A third of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2005 amounted to around 42 million kuna, which means it will transfer 25 million kuna to the Foundation, and to the Fund 17 million kuna. Representatives of associations stemming from the Homeland War supported both bill proposals, stressing that the criteria were developed in co-operation with them. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should make its contribution to the successful work of the Fund or the Foundation as quickly as possible by privatising public enterprises. And competent institutions should continue to fulfil their legal obligations to defenders and victims with the same dynamics. With the adoption of both laws, it is necessary to hurry to start applying them at the beginning of the autumn or early of the new school year. Part of the representatives of associations that are not in the Republic coordination of associations expressed dissatisfaction with the lack of information on the making of a proposal and its inconsistencies on the proposal for a solution. The emphasis should be on clear and unequivocal criteria, established priorities and the selection of quality people in the management boards of the fund or trust. In their discussion, the Committee members supported both drafts of the law and expressed satisfaction with the positive opinion of the representatives of the Associations on Law Proposals. These proposals represent the operationalisation of both the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should continue to privatise public enterprises and transfer 7% of shares to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families to contribute to the successful work of both funds and foundations. The adoption of implementing rules and the appointment of board members should be hasty and the procedure should be transparent and accessible to all interested associations. The emphasis was placed on the urgency of the law-making procedure so that the whole process would be completed by the start of the new school year and on clear criteria and priorities. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: The proposal for a law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is accepted. Under 2. The draft law on the foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is hereby adopted. Under 3. Any comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft laws. Mr. President Vlado Jukic appointed me as his rapporteur at the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66563	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66564	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. There are two laws ahead of us, I think I can talk about both; a bill on the foundation of Croatian defenders and a fund on the scholarship of Croatian defenders. At first, I can say that the SDP Club will support these legislative proposals, among other things, and because it is about continuing to work on the implementation of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, which was adopted sometime in 2003 in the previous assembly of the Parliament and seems unanimous to me. This Law on the Croatian Defence Fund was once changed here but it was more cosmetic changes so that the Fund started this year. Sam, these laws themselves once again I stress they're not controversial. Until the second reading of possible suggestions and some associations can be entered but what is also visible on the Veterans Committee and what can be read in our media is that certain associations, defence associations are not fully involved in this process of reviving the Croatian Defence Fund, and they were then on the tail of events concerning the formation of these foundations, so that our suggestion is to find additional efforts, above all, by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, to include those associations in order to avoid all possible problems that are visible about the work of the Fund on Croatian defenders. What will be crucial, what is not written in these laws, which will already be written in their implementing acts, will be criteria that must be transparently set where one of the criteria is safe when we talk about the foundation for Croatian defenders must be social censorship. So, the socially endangered Croatian defenders who most often do not have the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid who are unemployed or who have minimum income should receive if, of course, they achieve a certain amount of money, with reasons for giving these one-time aids, which has been the case at the Ministry of Defence. The reasons should be a disease, such as himself, means a Croatian defender or a family member. Most of the time, it's been about sick kids. If this is the case, the work of the very foundation of the problem will not be. However, if we take the foundation as a register just to help where money will be shared by political, cousin, party and other ties, then the very meaning of the foundation will be compromised at the very beginning. Such cases have so far been, so it would be good for us to start at the beginning when we do that, when we do that rule to remove them, and of course people who sit in the board of trusts, and where most of them will have defence associations, they should make sure that there are no such cases, but that the money really goes to those who need it most. And when we talk about this fund, about the scholarship of Croatian defenders or more of the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders, then the property censorship, or the social status of members of the family of that Croatian defender, must certainly be one of the criteria of success. We need to help children who will have the best opportunities and finish high school, finish colleges and normally compete in the labour market, and not again share money for the sake of peace in the house and for those for whom there is no chance that these schools will bring an end. So the criteria must be transparently set. There must be no politics in the implementation, there must be no elements that are not foreign to man's weaknesses, and that way we will avoid all that, all the mistakes we make today. And this can best be seen in this Act on, that is, the implementation of the Fund Act, that is, the way the Croatian Defence Fund works, where we have seen that there have been problems in determining the score, so a new working group is now being formed which may also be designed by a new rule. We leave it to them that these mistakes or certain misunderstandings are resolved. But what is the biggest weakness that gives birth to additional problems and dissatisfaction with Croatian defenders is the fact that the government is not open enough to the public and that it does not go with information with real information towards Croatian defenders, or all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So we can't even hear from the government how much each Croatian defender, along with all possible fences, will get money for his stakes, or today's stock, but it is said that at this point this amount is impossible to say. However, it is simply not true, and it is not good for opposition or opposition members to say what should be the task of the Croatian government. So it should be said that the average money each Croatian defender, or member of the family, will receive is about 4,000 kuna. But I say if everyone gets the same, but that range is going to be from several kunas to 15000 kunas or 20,000 kunas. Because this is what Croatian defenders are interested in, and no one by the government wants to go out with that fact, as if in a year or two money would be far more. No, because we are coming up with the next question that the Government is not giving an answer again, and it will again be related to the work of the foundation and the Fund on the scholarship of Croatian defenders, which is the fact that the privatisations of large public enterprises in the next few years where those 7% of the shares should be merged into the fund, and hence the foundation, that privatisation will not be because of what? Next is the privatisation of Croatian forests, followed by the privatisation of Croatian Waters, HEP and other companies, and the real debate on whether we want to privatise what is most valuable and what is left of us is the only real natural capital that we hold in our hands that debate has not yet followed, and we know that, how long has the privatisation of INA and HEP whose shares have been in the fund for many years. So that Croatian defenders and the public should be told that these 2 billion and 200 or how many million kunas in the fund that it will be for the next few years without an important possibility of increasing that amount, except for the dividends of INA and HEP that will be sitting every year. As it is clear and loud to say about those unfortunate HT dividends amounting to 200 or 300 million kuna, which we have already discussed several times in this Assembly that the Croatian Government has not paid that amount to the Croatian Defence Fund, and this foundation and the Fund on the scholarship of Croatian defenders will be suspended by a third of that amount. It means that the government has paid that dividend, the rest of the HT dividend would be more money for the Croatian defenders' trust fund, and therefore also for a fund on the scholarship of Croatian defenders. So these are all questions that the government should give a clear and loud answer so that simply Croatian defenders and the entire public may know what they are on, and then we will also deprive ourselves of the politicization of this whole issue. Clearly, the SDP does not want to lead a political match on all these open issues. Unlike some other parties earlier, we really want what has been achieved by consensus to come into life. Because we are doing all of this, not to collect political points, but simply to have Croatian defenders benefit from all of this. Well, on behalf of the SDP club, I hope that the benefits of this foundation for Croatian defenders and benefits for the Croatian Defence Scholarship Fund will still be. And that is why I am stressing once again the SDP supports this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66565	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here, the HDZ club supports this intention to further assist Croatian defenders in solving their accumulated problems, in resolving their social situation. And all of this is for those who are not supplied and who are not through the law, who are not allowed to participate in any means of co-financing through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, whether education or other forms of assistance, social or residential nature. In fact, the law passed in the fund was necessary to change because it was technically not possible to implement it. The study said that such a law as was proposed and adopted could not be applied, but that important changes had to be made so that it could be functional and have legal basis. Therefore, new amendments to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund have also been adopted. So that's how this fund and this trust and this division are 60 percent of 1/3 net profits and 40% for the fund, and 60% for the trust. Namely, these points, as you've heard, took part in the debate and the associations came from the Homeland War. So the representatives of the coordination of 18 associations and 8 other organizations that were present, those differences we talked about were only from one or two associations that were not informed about it. However, they did not have any relevant comments or general remarks on the adoption of such legal forms. So everyone's happy that this is happening and happening. They were also pleased with the Croatian Defence Fund. They were also satisfied with the adoption at the beginning and the distribution of belongings and the course of the Homeland War, but then when the informality occurs or there are no specifics that speak about the period in which who got how much and when these main actors who called the most in the distribution are involved in the work group’s work itself then something else is happening. It is true that it is always necessary to work to ensure that what belongs to it is fairly and justly distributed. That those who weren't in the fighting sector couldn't be in it. So we think that this task force will either fix it or conclude it's good as it is. But we'll see about that. In addition to applying the prescribed defence rights, one part of the defenders were not supplied, as I said, one part of the population remained at a lower standard of living and this is a form of trust and the fund is certainly intended for them. Therefore, the censorship used in these proposals of the law is one normal thing as if indeed those who do not have enough resources could find themselves through such reforms that are really good and through these funds that are intended for 2006, which is 25 million 298 thousand 321 kuna and 8 limes. The purpose of this foundation is to provide financial assistance for the life insurance of Croatian defenders, to provide financial assistance for the heavily vulnerable families of Croatian defenders and members of their family, to provide financial assistance for the health care and treatment of ill Croatian defenders and members of their family and to provide financial assistance after the death of Croatian defenders and members of their families. The provision of financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their family for the acquisition of first profession, requalification, censure in the system of extraordinary schooling or attending training courses for certain professions, providing financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their family's rope for employment and self-employment. The provision of other types of financial assistance to Croatian defenders and members of their family who achieve the purpose of this foundation. We believe that both boards and trusts as well as the fund will be selected people who will honestly and honestly decide on the purpose of the funds and the real necessary users. This will be supervised by the Management Board of the Fund itself, as well as by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to which it is necessary to submit the report. On these basic issues that arise, which is the very beginning of the work of the fund and the amount of assets to be held by the foundation, that is 100 thousand kuna, which will be paid by the fund management company at the expense of the foundation. So this amount is also secured and there are no disputes. Furthermore, we believe that these funds are large but certainly not enough to supply all those who need it most, and we think that all one privatisation will go or 7% of the shares, from the value of the company 7% of the shares will certainly be in the fund and in these three years or at least from most Croatian companies that will find a model that will be transferred. The funding for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders is also defined in Article 54(1). Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family so that children of the missing Croatian defenders, children of the dead, children of Croatian wartime disabled persons have the right to scholarship during regular high school education, regular graduate studies and the right to compensation for part of the cost of post-graduate studies at higher schools because their regular incomes per month do not exceed the double censorship resulting from Article 88 paragraph 1 of this Act. So, in this Fund on Child Scholarship, everything is defined and we can also express our satisfaction that this has happened and that we will almost have it in our second reading so that it is brought up as soon as possible and I can say once again that the Croatian Democratic Community club with full support supports these proposals of these two laws and we expect that the real Croatian defenders who are below these censors and who are socially unsettled with these funds will be resolved. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66566	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66567	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since we know that this foundation is just a continuation of the part that we have to do as far as the Croatian Fund is concerned, I don't think there's any ambiguity here, that we all support it, that this should actually be cream on the cake, that means the funds that will be from the fund will need to be updated further, they need to find their end-users, and these are defenders who are threatened and their children. The parents of the dead, children of the dead, etc. The general population predicts this. As far as this foundation is concerned, I would read about what this law provides for the establishment of a foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families whose incomes should help solve the material problems of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, or contribute to their social security, and if this is not possible by applying the provisions of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family, as well as by applying other regulations. The result of the adoption of this law is the improvement of the material and economic position, the part of the most socially endangered Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. I think this formulation says everything to itself that this is one human law and that this foundation should and should be done before it is done so that before the next school year, this foundation will be operational and to the benefit of those people who are doing this. I would only with these questions that need to be resolved by this foundation, this is a bill of law to settle the following basic issues. The purpose of the trust, the trust, the underlying assets of the trust, the financing, financial operations and supervision of the work of the trust, the liability of the trust and the statute of the trust. I would add clear criteria so that there would be no abuse of the law which would turn this beautiful and good intention into someone's chest and the great dissatisfaction of the defenders. This fear is real, and that is why, on the very Committee on War Veterans, where we all gave our warm support to this foundation and this proposal, we have been thinking in a way that it is very important that regulations and laws be passed in the broadest consensus, and therefore some associations were dissatisfied not to support this foundation but to express their dissatisfaction that they were not familiar with the work of this foundation, with their participation in the work of the same. I think it is necessary that I, myself, also stressed on the Committee on War Veterans, that when some Law on Croatian Defences, especially the more important laws affecting these matters where finance and resources are concerned, we should involve the largest defence population in the creation of these same laws, we cannot, by that act alone, be able to, i.e. We can reach a consensus that no one can yell tomorrow and shout that something was done under the grain. So the public works, honesty and honesty, and I don't think that this part of the job can be used at all for political purposes, but this is one human, good and fair purpose and this fund is working in more governments, more people have participated in it, the defenders themselves have initiated this fund and I think this is one human and gesture in a way that repays the state to defenders in a small part, but that small part is one satisfaction that people have and defenders feel that someone is taking care of them and that someone has thought of them at all. As for 60% for the fund of these 40 funds for the Undergraduate Fund, I asked the Secretary of State to tell us the criteria by which this ratio was put and voted, i.e. Irregular in the House rather than put into this bill, I would ask until the second reading that these criteria for transparency, for truth and for no doubt to be delivered to us in other materials so that we have complete insight and a picture of why this ratio is. The Foundation in 2006 is 25 million 298 thousand 321 kuna and 08 limes. These are not small funds and we can help many defense families, especially if we know that there are a large number of defenders who are now in the status of their right to disability, to live on the border of the human minimum of dignity. I think this one, however small a sum is when it's split, will at least be able to put out some fires where it needs it most. And that's why I think the criteria have to be the basis of this Law, this Foundation, and that these criteria really have to go into the widest debate of all associations, of all defenders, so there wouldn't be tomorrow if there were abuse or something else. As for the fact that within 3 years, the government should have all these other privatisation companies, the Defence Fund, get 7% of those same companies, I said that to the War Veterans Committee, and I'll say that here at this session. I will never raise my hand, in front of the HNS club, to privatise Croatian forests, to privatise Croatian highways, to have Croatia's electricity privatised. I'll never raise my hand for that. If Croatian defenders need 7% of it to make this privatisation easier, thank you very much we don't need it because we won't be slaves in our country tomorrow. If this country's infrastructure is being sold out so that we can give the defenders 7% I will never stand behind it, and I believe neither Croatian defenders. Therefore, if there is some way for 7% of these companies to get the defenders, the dividends 7% of these companies to get the defenders without privatization, I'm going to be able to support it, and anything else that goes towards the sale of Croatia, I certainly won't support it. And in front of the HNS Club, I support this Foundation, but these are the thoughts that we had on the War Veterans Committee, and I want to make them clear here. For the record, let the Croatian public know and let us know here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66568	Thank you very much. HSP club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66569	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The Croatian Party of Rights Club also normally supports the proposal for a law on Croatian Defence Foundations from the Homeland War and members of their families. We believe that this Law will try to solve a considerable number of problems that today affect Croatian defenders and members of their families. In particular, this applies to those Croatian defenders who are unemployed, who have no income whatsoever, and many of them are true and true volunteers of the Homeland War. And unfortunately, to this day I cannot resolve the issue of my own, or existence above all my family and myself. And we hope that the aim of this Law will not be on the one hand, and that there will be no justification for the non-implementation of the applicable laws on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. First of all, about the Croatian defenders' championship and members of their families regarding employment. We, when it comes to the law, warned that the provisions were unsettled in the adoption of the sign of a valid Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. And what he told us is happening in his report to the Attorney General. That those who should and should respect the employment championship, which means the thoughts of the central government bodies, public enterprises, county, cities and municipalities, that they systematically discriminate, that they do not implement those legal provisions and that they cancel competitions every time and change the conditions to exclude the Croatian defender or members of their families from being able to do so. So, that's what you, Mr. Djakic, is in the attorney general's report. There are many examples, and you can now convince me and the Croatian public that that is not the case, but unfortunately, that is the case. There are a small million such examples, there are examples of employment related to the Ministry of Justice system, there are also related to the system of public enterprises, there are customs duties in your system, there are Tax administrations. Come to the HSP Club and we'll show you everything. So there's a huge number of problems and we're not going to close our eyes like a huge number of problems related to law enforcement. For example, the pension situation that is guaranteed, an age pension, is Article 31. He is unfortunately referring to official interpretations only for those who retire after the entry into force of the Law. And it does not apply to Croatian defenders and volunteers who have gone to that pension and cannot exercise the right to 45% guaranteed pensions. This is the response of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is the response of the ministries, and among them are those two who crashed that Yugoslav Army plane in Sibenik, with the latter dying in the meantime. So around these parts there's a lot of problems, but we'll do it more in the report. So we're asking that this relationship, too, means the purpose of the foundation really is to create exact and certain criteria for the Law, or the Foundation to have that purpose. Now we need to talk about one by myself and by the assessment of the Croatian Party's Law Club, the subject of a resilient legal issue, and that is this variant, the Government means elegantly established the Foundation and it is legally founded by the Foundation, but the money is secured from the Fund. This is a real issue because of the fact that according to the Law on Privatisation, and also according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, it is said that they stand out 7% in privatisation, i.e. from public companies and everything else. And now it's both debateable and that provision relating to the Fund Act and especially regarding these criteria and decisions of the Fund. Is it legally possible that, meaning the fact is that all those who have certain shares, i.e. who have the right to participate in the Fund, do not exercise their right in full scope but the state means that their right limits. So that's just what we're saying is that it's legal to make it clear that there's no situation, no administrative dispute, you want me to say, Mr. Djakic, you're not at the HDZ meeting. Thus, that part should be legally clarified to see what the situation is like. So this is what we expect for the second reading and, and about these other supporting things, we also agree with the rating and the HNS club that we have said a long time ago, which is that under the cover of privatization of everything else that is still valid in Croatia, and as if it were done in the interest of Croatian defenders it would not already be sold to someone who already counts on getting both HEP and Croatian water and Croatian forest and everything else, and then it will be explained and said that is what we do in the interest of Croatian defenders. Far greater will be the interest of Croatian defenders to work in such companies, not to privatise it and then become a technological surplus. Therefore, there are a lot of problems in this area and I say the HSP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66570	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66571	Mr. Vice-President, I will correct Mr. Pera Kovacevic's incorrect claim that the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders is not applicable especially in that segment of employment of Croatian defenders, children of the mortally injured Croatian defenders, children of disabled persons. Namely, you yourself have probably been able to intervene and monitor many times in such cases, and I am sure, and from practice I know that every competition where no child has been admitted under the same conditions that they requested in the competition, that the tender has been annulled by administrative oversight and re-scheduled. I can tell for our environment Virovitica-Podravska County that we have employed the maximum number of children killed and we have 3 or 4 children left and make sure that, as well as all environments where we're worried there, that's what's coming true. It can't happen that someone ignores the legal provisions and the one who neglects has to be sanctioned and sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66572	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66573	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it is to welcome this Bill on the Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in order to achieve those declared rights through the foundation and from many other laws. However, immediately what I would like to point out is that the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of this Law are well explained, they are also precise and that it is then confusing itself that the Law itself which speaks individually through certain articles is dry and does not essentially talk about content and metrics. They are more, these norms of the Law itself are bureaucratic, as the Governing Board is chosen, how will the Government, at what time, what the Governing Board adopt, which acts etc., and precisely through the provisions of the Law, that is, through certain articles, should be incorporated into this very assessment of the situation to see which defenders are concerned, or which persons whose right is guaranteed by law. And why am I saying this? Just to avoid intransparency, to avoid many disappointments, and we have great experiences always through our Croatian history and through trusts. Croatia has not celebrated its foundations, and we have not even celebrated the exercise of the rights of defenders. That's what defense attorneys keep warning about. Unfortunately, a large number of such dissatisfaction also results in this saddest and most embarrassing act for all of Croatia and all of us, the suicides of defenders. So what seems very important to me is that there are no laws, or certain norms, to play out so that these laws that regulate rights are as transparent as possible, which is more calculating, so that there are no disappointments. Few of our general citizens are disappointed why there is or is no right, but how this right is achieved and that volunteerism, this non-transparency that may be sometimes is just a matter of perception and not reality, but then I say there is no reason why, even in this Act, both the trust and the Law on the grant of Croatian defenders would avoid such things, would avoid such things, and ultimately those who carry out the law, and there are great powers here and the Minister-in-chief, or the Minister-in-chief, in order to make it easier for them to do so. That's why I don't see any reason not to. This is an opportunity to point out that the amount it will receive from the share of the fund, so through the sale, i.e. through the participation of dividends, is a maximum of 15 to 20 thousand kuna in dividends, and that defenders are already counting on 15 to 20 thousand euros and that they are being fueled by such a single thought and opinion, and it is confirmed by the head man of the fund that such a maximum amount could be somewhere between 15 and 20 thousand kuna. Today we can read in the paper that one of the government's greater successes is to restore dignity to the defenders. We still don't know what this is about. Is this dignity incorporated through the adoption of these laws, and an even bigger problem is how much they are implemented and how they will be implemented or through I would say one unspeakable behavior in terms of absolute application which is... The constitutional law on co-operation with The Hague Court when this government transports defenders, generals, to domestic and international courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66574	You can answer the line of correction, throw is wrong. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66575	Is it that kind of dignity? I also point out once again that every man has dignity independently of which authority, but this has been said and then spoken today, but it would be better to get into the fund and then be richer and the foundation itself for one third of these funds and the amount of 3 hundred million kuna in the name of the dividend for which the fund was denied, and then not indirectly than directly and directly by the foundation of one third, but from such funds, given that these funds were intended to go to the fund itself when the law was passed and not after a year, a year and a half, and the fund itself was formed. So let's leave ourselves to the imagination and metaphysics and dignity and not to return it, you still have the possibility, to return three hundred million kunas belonging to the fund and belonging to this foundation. But a lot of nice words and here's the damage already in the beginning and the foundation itself for that amount. What I particularly want to point out may well have time to correct in this sense and nomotechnical law is because certain provisions that speak of conscience or the way people who will work in the foundation themselves are. We already have very negative experiences stemming from the application of many laws that have such a single rubber norm that the government will resolve the president or vice president or board members if it does not carry out its duties knowingly. There is a possibility and once again I am saying that this law is taxing on what terms it is, when it is considered unwittingly carrying out its duty. So, I must consider those criteria taxed. Similarly, what is most important in order to avoid this one intransparency and one dissatisfaction of the defenders precisely because the individual bodies of the state do so in a truly appropriate way in order to determine in this foundation which the defenders or members of their families would have the right to this assistance. I say, it would be a much easier job both to the board of directors and the chairman of the foundation, members of the board of directors themselves, and also to the Secretary-General. In this way, a reasonable criticism would be avoided and doubtful that it is not done in a transparent way or that someone favors it without concrete criteria. I am also saying this because within our system there is also this institution of one-time assistance when they fail or when it is impossible for the defender and members of his family to make assistance based on positive regulations and he really needs it so much and it is good that there is this one-time assistance institute... somewhere in the amount of about 12,000 kuna, but it's bad that they don't exist, or there used to be these criteria, but now they're not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then the defense attorneys rightly spoke I didn't get help even though they cut off my power, water and someone got help because he gambled or got himself into some kind of debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66576	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66577	Mr. Vice President, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Antičević where she claimed that the problems of Croatian defenders are increasing and that there are more and more because of this and these events, etc. I can say that on the contrary, there are fewer unresolved problems with Croatian defenders but it is still difficult to solve all the accumulated problems that you have done by passing your laws, your references, your insults and your taking away your dignity to Croatian defenders who have been constantly and frequently.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66578	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66579	A colleague, Djakic, violated Article 209. The Rules of Procedure because he was correcting something that I didn't say at all, although I agree with what he just said, but he imputed me that I originally said. It is about that, colleague Djakic, that the money that belongs to the defenders and which you have taken from them will return.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66580	I don't know what that's all about. It needs to be controlled when spoken, so there won't be any. Mrs. Bozica Solic also hurts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66581	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ms. Anticevic said in her debate that she does not see where today the government is restoring dignity to Croatian defenders. That's not true. Or you're not in progress. This today, the government has passed a series of amendments to the laws that you have passed in the past, in your government and which have been for Croatian defenders humiliating. And I'll remind you only of that part of the law on defenders, the unfortunate translation when a series of audits were carried out against Croatian defenders, when you ripped the living defenders off their arms and legs. That is true, it is a fact and the Croatian public remembers it well and knows it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66582	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66583	... that colleague Šolić claimed that I said... [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] And grammatically wrong, I don't speak that way and it's incorrect in general. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] I was talking about that no government can take away anyone's dignity because, in our opinion, every man, and the defenders, of course, have their own dignity in themselves, and if you've listened a little better, I said that this government has taken away the money from the defenders who belong to them and this trust fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66584	You didn't call in which article of the Rules of Procedure was injured. You've abused the Rules of Procedure for the second time, so I give you my warning. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66585	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! In her debate, counterpart Anticevic stated that Croatian defenders belong part of the dividend from companies of which shares and dividends have been going to the Croatian Defence Fund since the day of the law. That's, of course, incorrect. My colleague Antičević, in this Croatian Parliament, has probably tried to make a political point on the subject 10 times already. The Croatian defenders have been granted dividends since the time the Law established the Fund and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided these funds or transferred them to the Croatian Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66586	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66587	A member, provision of Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure, has been injured because the law explicitly speaks when it enters into force and when it is subject to application. So I said exactly because that's what the law says. Therefore, a colleague cannot be considered to be incorrect. May he choose to inform himself in this Law and read that Law once more. And I'm sorry that you're so restrictively and incorrectly interpreting him at the expense of the defense attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66588	Madam MPs, for the third time, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. ... You showed nothing at all and proved that Mr. Marko Široc hurt the Rules of Procedure, so you hurt the Rules of Procedure for the third time, and that seems to be your practice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I will unfortunately have to resort to other measures if it happens again. You've received one warning for two misapplications. This is the third time. I will refrain from giving you a second warning, but I ask you also for your dignity and dignity of this House and for those who chair the Parliament that you no longer do so. We also have a replica, Mr. Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66589	You will probably agree to be careful when speaking in terms of dignity, especially when talking about the dignity of Croatian defenders. And we could read that today. One of the government's greatest achievements is to restore the dignity of Croatian defenders. The former government, to remind you, has been attacked to destroy this dignity of Croatian defenders, to criminalise the Homeland War for co-operation with the International Court in The Hague. And now the unspeakable co-operation of this HDZ Sanader government with the same court in The Hague is the return of dignity. So to locate, arrest, deliver General Gotovina to The Hague is to restore the dignity of Croatian defenders. The conclusion is in itself. But I'll say it's not good that one person or one party is a measure of truth. Well, that's what we had in communism. Don't bring us back to communism.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66590	Replication response, Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66591	Yeah, buddy. That's what the government thinks. The return of dignity is "one way ticket" or a one-way ticket to The Hague, and while these cards have already been spent before domestic courts. It's obviously restoring the dignity of this power to the defenders. And it's a tragic situation, if we remember a little bit what they said in their opposition days, but I guess they think so when they do it in such a way that they can do it. So they can do it. But let's put it aside now. It's sad and worrying that it's a very large number of suicides. That's what this government denies instead of all of us doing together on that sad and sad fact. And another thing that's also sad, so as the government says it returns dignity itself, it takes away their apartments. It is not a rare number of cases as many as I am spoken to by citizens as they have to move out of Morh's apartments and have no settled housing issue. So the return of dignity is to take the roof over the head in the opinion of this government and I will once again mention these 300 million kunas for which the Fund and the Foundation have been impoverished.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66592	A hand in the air doesn't mean anything without a plate of one. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66593	Look, if you'll excuse yourself here in the House, I don't know if we voted this House in 1996, the International Agreement that we're going to co-operate, constitutional law in cooperation with the Court of Justice in The Hague. I now see that in the work of reviewing it, those decisions and that here...... I'm sorry, I'm sorry... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66594	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66595	My colleague Antičević, colleague Antičević, what I saw is my problem and about what you really have, you can at least judge who saw what. Well, in the end, I guess they were some members of your party in Osijek, and they could also see something, so they don't remember seeing anything. Excuse me. Here is the work of reviewing one of the decisions made by this High House and it is so beautiful, wonderfully repeated. and ask for it to be part of it. [[Intruder: Sir]] I don't want to be a part of it, and I'm asking you to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66596	Sir, Mr. Kramaric. Here, for no reason, the situation that has sharpened its actions has been heightened again by the former justice minister who is calling into question the implementation of the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with The Hague Court of Justice. And therefore, I ask you to withdraw your request for a session. This is nothing new. This happens all the time. So we're not gonna get any breaks. Let's continue and finish this session so we can vote at 3:00. I ask you to withdraw your request.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66597	You're the only reason I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66598	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66599	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are often witnessing problems in achieving the rights of Croatian defenders. That's what it used to be for formal reasons. Sometimes it comes from a lack of law, which some would say even a hole in the law, and then the defenders and members of their families and children are cut off and they can't exercise some of the rights they still need to have. Such a situation then causes dissatisfaction, justifiable dissatisfaction, and very often inappropriate reactions, sometimes with tragic consequences. You know, PTS isn't fiction. This is, unfortunately, a reality that needs to be taken care of. The defense attorney's merits are unquestionable and unquestionable, and then, after that, neither the defense attorney's rights nor in any way can they be questioned. We are also witnessing that often the conclusions are made on the basis of some exceptions, inappropriate exceptions, and then I say on that basis someone is creating, not to say public opinion. Dear fellow Pancic mentioned the way, the sorry way of distribution and that there must be no residues, none by grandmother and by uncles, but that the way to distribute funds for these scholarships that this law provides must be extremely just and just. And it's a good thing that the criteria are now unique to this entire country, because you've had certain units of local self-government that some of the funds or some of the funds rag to say these holes that weren't solved in law, and then some of them were left to be abolished. There are also certain associations that are mentioned here that supported the adoption of these laws had some of their own criteria from association to association, but I say there was always someone who stayed aside and could not exercise his rights. Because this proposal, i.e. the proposal of these two laws, proves that the Ministry is concerned, that it lives with these laws and, if possible, some suggestion or recommendation to continue to follow closely if certain shortcomings occur, so that it is not difficult to propose then and it is not difficult to adopt an amendment to the law so that all these injustices will be corrected as soon as possible. In any case, I support the motion to adopt both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66600	Thank you very much. At 12.20, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. Mr. Marco Chirac is up. Here you go. I'm sorry, it's early, so I'm a little past that request, Secretary of State to address it. Here you go, Mr. Evic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66601	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am sorry that this debate over this foundation, where it is obvious from the presentation of the representatives of the clubs, is a consensus when it comes to the justification for the adoption of this law, has turned into politics and I am sorry to say for that and I simply have to answer some of the inaccuracies that have been presented in the debates. I don't know how some MPs get information about the value of the participation in the Croatian Defence Fund, about the amounts they'll get when nobody knows and can't know it right now because the whole process isn't over, and it's not known until the end for each defender how many points they'll get because of a record that's what it is. I also have to mention that unfortunately we received a register of Croatian defenders 10 years after the end of the war, when all the shares that should be transferred have not been transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund from where they are mentioned here and where the information on these amounts comes from. First of all, it is unserious and it can create confusion in the field with Croatian defenders instead of sending a clear message from here to Croatian defenders, do not sell those shares, because these are the shares of the most valuable Croatian companies that are very well quoted on the market because they are already visited by various emissaries, offering them, of course, the possibility of buying out these shares, etc. So no one at this time knows what the value of the participation in the Croatian Defence Fund is, or how much of the Croatian defender will get on the basis of these shares expressed in kunas, and it is unserious to send such messages from here. The second thing, when it comes to dividends that are also mentioned here, the Government has made it clear and loud that its opinion is supported by the position of the dividend profession, not about 300 million kunas, as it stands for an esteemed representative, but 200 million kunas, that the right to dividend has since the moment of transfer of shares to the Croatian Defence Fund, and that is clearly the position of the Government supported by the position of the profession. It is known in which way that question can then eventually be challenged. In the past two and a half years, this government has also shown that it cares very much about the status of Croatian defenders and through legal regulations such as the new law, so here are these two laws, the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, but also what is called the return of debt to Croatian defenders under the past law and previous law. Just to remind you that in 2004, a hundred million kunas were paid to Croatian defenders under the '96 law. A year. That in the first four months, around 140 million kunas of debt were paid under the 2001 law, that this government would secure in the 2007 budget another 180 million kunas of debt under the 2001 law. So, concrete things, not words and passwords, but this government shows that taking care of Croatian defenders is one of the basic tasks. It's also absolutely incorrect for this government to deny the occurrence of suicides, to hide the number of suicides. This government spoke publicly for the first time about this particular subject, and it did not act as a former who pushed it all under the carpet, although they had studies and analyses of the number of suicides among Croatian defenders. A recent consultation was held in the organization of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity on the subject where all indicators of suicides were presented to the Croatian public in 2005 as well as in all previous years. And the fact is, in 2005 it doesn't significantly bounce off the average. In 2005, however, the number of suicides was lower than those in which the highest suicide rate of Croatian defenders was recorded. So it is absolutely incorrect to accuse this government of not taking care of Croatian defenders. She takes good care of Croatian defenders. And the best indicator is these legal proposals that are here today before the Parliament, which will significantly contribute to improving this social and material status of the defence population.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66602	Thank you very much. Mr. Marco Chirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66603	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Improving the material and social security of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their families is a permanent task of the government of the Republic of Croatia, but I would say not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it is a permanent task and all other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, including our Croatian Parliament. In the light of this bill of law by which the Government wishes to resolve the important issues of our defenders, both social issues and certain material issues of our defenders and their families. The promoter, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pointed out that despite the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who provided certain sources of income for the social and material safety of these citizens and those of our families, however, the fact remains that one part of our citizens who qualify as defenders or their family members today lives modestly on a low level of standards. I, from my knowledge of field issues in the Republic of Croatia, can point out that, that such a situation with families that have a higher number of members, in which no one works, or families where they are, have a number of members, so only one works, or only one modest income per basic pension, especially for those who are not resident, who are in such a situation. Therefore, I think that the adoption of this Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families will solve a part of the problem. We don't need to be overly optimistic, so let's just say we'll figure it out. But one part of the problem will be solved in these families. Especially in those who and those defenders who had the courage to set up some of their own activities with great optimism. They even built some plants and then they lacked some more money to secure their trade capital, to move on. People have become in a situation that they can't work, that they don't have a trade capital, that they have to shut down those plants or activities that they started working in. And again, they report whether it was at the Employment Service or remain unsettled. I think the adoption of this law will improve the material and economic position of a part of our people who are socially endangered, and the defenders are, or members of their family from the Homeland War. I would be free, Mr. Vice President, and a few words to say about this law which set up the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I think we'll create a prerequisite and assumptions for better social status for students, students, students of postgraduate studies who exercise scholarship rights, if they meet certain conditions that will be prescribed to achieve these scholarships. I support the adoption of this law, especially since it is not necessary for the implementation of this law to provide specific resources from the state budget. The means of implementation of these two laws are provided from part of the funds implemented through the Croatian Defence Fund and of course this way, this law opens the possibility of other grant funds being poured into the Foundation or into the Scholarship Fund. So I can say this, that it is not an obstacle to the state budget to keep a steady amount of money a foundation, whether a scholarship fund ensures that we can solve the issue here for our defenders who need this help, the children of their defenders who need it for education to create from them today people who have an education, who can be citizens, worthy citizens of this country and meet their legal and other obligations. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Secretary of State, I support both of these laws. I think it's good and quality laws, and life will show that we were right when we proposed the adoption of the Foundation Act and the Fund for... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66604	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Christmas School. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66605	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, The proposal for a law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is a great contribution to solving the problem of the defence population. With this proposal, the Croatian Government solves a burning problem and fulfills its promises to work on the dignity of the Homeland War and on the care of defenders and their children, as well as on the care of children whose parents have pawned their lives for this Croatian state. In the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, representatives of the Associations of Homeland War defenders participated, discussing a proposal for a working group with the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. The proposal for a law which is before us for its content is a provision of Article 29(2) of the Law, which stipulates that a third of the net profit from investment is intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. The Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to get 40% of the net from the said third to the Croatian Defence and Child Scholarship Fund from the Homeland War. I don't think there's anyone among us who doesn't support this law's intention. Let us remember thousands of young men and girls who left school and college benches and went to the battlefield to defend their country. When they returned to their homes after 4.5 years, health was changed. The return to learning for many was impossible. Now the country is changing the economic situation, Croatia is in a hurry to become a country of knowledge and the country must help those who lost years and have won an independent Croatian state. There are even stronger reasons for the state to take care of the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who are multiplely suspended in normal education. It will take a lot of effort and resources to create for such children conditions that will enable them to join the state of knowledge. And in the end, I'm going to vote for this bill, I think it's a big step in the Croatian social state to help those categories of our population that have suffered a great burden in the Homeland War. And I'll allow myself one little remark at the end. I think there was still a need to make an adequate commitment to a future scholarship. During the course of schooling, i.e. studying and after obtaining a degree. However, in Article 21. The bill is authorized by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to pass implementing rules but I do not think it would be too much to say about it by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66606	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the Law on the Croatian Foundation of the Homeland War and their families as well as the Proposal for a Law on a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War aims to help improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. It is important here to point out that representatives of Homeland War Associations supported both drafts of the law and that they themselves participated in the development of criteria. The current laws have not sufficiently addressed the level of material and social security, and the resolution of specific problems in which, despite the application of the prescribed defence rights, there is one part of the defence population that remains at a lower standard of living. This applies especially to multi-member families where no one is employed or is employed by only one member of the family, very often with low and irregular incomes, and especially where some members are seriously ill, and very often with all this they do not have a settled and residential issue. Many times part of the defence population sought to resolve their problem only by hiring, but since the use of state incentives often failed, it re-emerges to the unemployment records and can still be very difficult to get into life normally because simply entrepreneurs failed. That is why this Law provides for the establishment of a Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families whose incomes should help be a guarantee in solving the material problems of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, in the event that it is not possible to achieve this by applying the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The proposal for a law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War will give rise to assumptions for better social status of students, students and students of postgraduate studies who exercise the right to scholarship if they meet the legal assumptions for obtaining a scholarship if their monthly income per member of the household does not exceed the double censorship of 30%, the established budget base which is a thousand 995 kuna per member. The establishment of the Fund shall also comply with the legal provisions laid down in Article 55. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Both of these draft laws address similar problems, and their funding is foreseen from the same sources. Only funding will mainly be made through the distribution of a third of the net to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and thus 60% will be allocated to the Foundation and 40% to the Fund. A third of the funds for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2005 amount to around 42 million kuna, which means that around 25 million kuna will be transferred to the foundation and around 17 million kuna into the fund. It is very important that both laws should be hurried in order to start applying them early in the fall, or early in the new school year. Clear and unequivocal criteria are needed when selecting people who will also manage the fund, or trust, and I can say that I come from Brod-Posavia County where we have a very large number of defenders and I think that with the proposals of these two laws, it will help resolve their material status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66608	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired, Doctor, Professor and Doctor Club, let's go when I've already said Mr. Joseph Sudec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66609	Ladies and gentlemen, the effort that these two laws have been made to come to the Assembly of Praise is worth it. We expected these two laws to be dealt with after having previously resolved issues of vital importance for the defenders to come by emergency procedure. We would support an emergency procedure, as we will once again say in the debate that we agree that the material position of the defenders is improving, especially their children, and that this is a way of thanking the defenders. There's been a lot of talk here today about whether we could do more. Surely we could have done more, perhaps even before, but I think economic opportunities reflect what we would have wanted to do at some point. The Foundation is just a continuation of the efforts of society and all of us to raise additional funds, funds from domestic sources, international sources, and our diaspora, and I think it is an appropriate opportunity to secure the means for the most difficult material cases of Croatian defenders. The criteria are very important, they are in principle highlighted here, they are a health and social situation and will certainly be resolved by sublegal acts. It will be another opportunity for all Homeland War associations to participate in what is most sensitive, and this is a proposal for criteria. As far as scholarships and children of Croatian defenders are concerned, I think they must be transparent and can be seen from the bill that they will be visible, that they will also be social factors and elements, as well as learning results. This means not all will be maintained without any criteria and this minimum of success is positive to be resolved regardless of whether it will be resolved by legal or sublegal acts. The club estimates that these two laws are a continuation of work to improve the material position of defenders and their children and we support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66610	Thank you very much. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66611	Proposal for a Law on the Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The bill on the foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66612	and we move to the 17th point – - Proposal for a Law on a Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, first reading of P.Z. No. 496 First of all, I apologize to the Parliament for not joining these two points, but in your discussions, you actually discussed and mentioned it. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal of the Act in the boxes, in the adoption of this Act... Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans. You received the report at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? He doesn't want to. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Thank you. Does Mr. Raven want it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66613	I'll discuss it individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66614	Well, there's no one here, so you can do it individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66615	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Although everything is said about both the other law and the introduction by representatives of clubs, and through discussion allow me only a few observations on this topic. I join all those who have said that this is a logical sequence of all these laws, that it is essentially the operationalisation of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, I welcome the adoption of this Law and, of course, my club and I will personally support it. Yesterday, when we were discussing on the Committee on War Veterans, I think there were no members of the Committee, nor were there any representatives of the Associations, representatives of the Homeland War who did not resort to all of us and the effort to put this Act into office as soon as possible, i.e. by the end of the year, to see the light of day to the joy and satisfaction of all those who will be beneficiaries of both the foundations and this Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I would also like to take the opportunity today and simply invite the Proposer to make it clear in the sublaws, so that what follows I am sure that this Law will come very quickly to the second reading, so that the sublaws make the criteria as clear as possible, that the conditions and the rules are as precise as possible, and that they will be more just and fair as possible. I think it's the desire of all the defenders because, for these reasons, it's usually a big misunderstanding and a certain inconvenience. And yesterday, the Committee was distracted, so I'm going to do it again today in my debate. When it comes to the need for timely and quality information or information of all defence associations, whether they are in coordination or not, we will also prevent various misinformation or mistrust in the implementation of these good legal solutions. Allow me, and invited by the debates of some colleagues and colleagues before me, to look back and often mention the dignity of the defenders here. It cannot be kept, cannot be created, cannot be maintained by a large and frequent charge of one another, by disdaining one another, by one another. And I invite all of us here in the Croatian Parliament to take this account. I believe we are all responsible to the public and especially to the defense population. They expect, like all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to get a very clear, very precise attitude from this assembly, very precise laws that will allow everyone to live better and better tomorrow than we lived yesterday. Often by accusing each other of yours and our governments, we go to your laws and our laws in the opposite direction and I don't think it's a good way, so here if I can also personally call and appeal especially when it comes to sensitive topics and this is one of the sensitive topics on which I simply don't see any reason for any politicization to take care of it and to stop to make tomorrow or some new congregation all of us live better together and have less problems or less energy breakdowns than we do now. Therefore, I support the adoption of this law, expecting that we will receive the law very quickly in the second reading and that the implementing measures will also enable children of Croatian defenders and their families and Croatian defenders to enjoy the fruits of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66616	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66617	Proposal for a Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, first reading. It's a debate. I am voting for the next conclusion, the proposal for a Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The proposed conclusion was adopted unanimously with 90 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66618	I suggest we take another agenda point that we have the conditions to finish yet. - Proposal for a law on the declaration of Nature Park "Lastovo Islands", first reading, P.Z. No. 495 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You've received reports. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Mr. Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, let me point out three points with this legislative proposal. Namely, this proposal, of course, did not happen by chance, it was also identified as a strategic goal in this House of the Republic of Croatia in 1997 and also re-confirmed by the strategy and action plan of the biological landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia, which was established in 1999. The value of this area has therefore been recognised a long time ago, 20 years ago, and a series of values identified in the labs is the proposal to protect the Lastovo Islands of 44 islands, islets and cliffs, not only because of their plant diversity but also because of animal species that have habitats in this area. This declaration of protection, which is proposed, will not only create conditions for the protection of natural values, but will allow very specific developments in terms of tourism and tourism, and will strengthen the social component of development. Therefore, it will allow the population of this area to improve their economic activities and especially those targeted in the area of tourism through this type of space protection. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66620	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Here you go. Mr. Marko Širac, on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66621	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! At the 40th session held on 1 June 2006, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament proposed a law on the declaration of Nature Park "Lastovo Otokje". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the home working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that only 9.1% of the land territory of the Republic of Croatia is protected in different categories of protection. The declaration of the Lastovo Islands by nature park is foreseen by the programme of the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which this Croatian Assembly adopted during 1999 and the Strategy and Action Plan for the Protection of the Biological and Regional diversity of the Republic of Croatia also by law adopted in 1999. The proposed category of protection will preserve the exceptional values of this island with the permission of economic and other activities that will not limit the essential nature and role of this space. Within six months of the entry into force of this law, the government of the Republic of Croatia will establish a public nature park management facility. This creates assumptions for the adoption of a management plan. At the same time, the adoption of this law will create legal assumptions for the adoption of a spatial nature park "Lastovo islet". The debate on the Committee supports the proposed declaration of the property island group to nature parks. It has been assessed that the protection of the islands and categories of nature park allows for economic and other activities which are of particular importance to the local population. The importance is therefore highlighted, the timely adoption of a management plan by a public institution to manage this protected area. The text of the proposal for a law contains the following comments and proposals. It is provided for in Article 2, paragraph 3 of the text, which reads as follows: "that which belongs to this Law" is replaced by the text which reads as follows: "what is the contribution of this Law." In Article 4, paragraph 4, along with that of the Ministry of Culture, the State Institute for the Protection of Nature should also be mentioned in the Croatian Assembly. This provision shall be in accordance with Article 24(2). The 2005 Nature Protection Act, which regulates that the cartographic depiction with the drawn borders, i.e. with the location marking, is kept by the holder of the act of declaration, and that one copy of the acts and the cartographic presentation is required to be delivered to the Ministry and the Institute. An increase in the overall percentage of protected territory of the Republic of Croatia was planned by further declaration of protected areas. It is pointed out that this is the way in which, by declaring different categories of protection depending on the characteristics of a particular area, it is possible to balance nature protection with its concomitant use. The opinion is expressed that in an effort to increase the percentage of protected land territory of the Republic of Croatia, optimal solutions should be identified, especially when it comes to forest management. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "A proposal for a Law on the Declaration of Nature Park of the Lastovo Islands is hereby adopted." Secondly, any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the Committee will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66622	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in from clubs or individuals. I'm closing the debate. Does the Proposer want a representative? He doesn't want to. We're done with this session today. At 15 o'clock is the vote and the proposal to include some points in the agenda, so please let us be here precisely at 15 o'clock and finish this week's session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. It's 13,03 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-06-02-0.u66623	Proposal for a Law on the Declaration of Nature Park "Lastovo Otokje". I am voting on the next conclusion, the proposal for a law on the declaration of the nature park "lastovo islet". All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? It's unanimous with 90 votes to accept the bill's proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a National Health Development Strategy in 2006-2011 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The Committee for Labour, Social Policy and Health has held a debate. Proposer, Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
