ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57205	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 19th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all as well as the Prime Minister, present members of the government. You received a record of the 18th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes in the text as accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I left out two points: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on Citizenship and the Report on the work of the National Science Council for the period from 14 December 2004 to 14 December 2005. Those two points were withdrawn from the procedure. For these reasons, the final draft agenda left out. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 10 to 14 and paragraph 35 sets out the laws proposed to adopt by an emergency procedure, which are the Proposal for a law on the validation of the multiannual, multiannual financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community with the final proposal for a law. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax avoidance. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Arab Republic of Egypt on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance. Fourthly, the proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income and property tax avoidance. Fifth, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. And the sixth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposer Valter Poropat. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't? Please engage to determine the quorum. Please quorum. 81 MPs and a representative. So we have a valid quorum. We're going to the vote. What? HDZ representative club, respected representative Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57207	From this quorum right over here, which is visible on this monitor is visible that it's only 81 MPs. I've been informed by several MPs that they don't have the keys.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57208	Their problem, their problem. Nothing. Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57209	But obviously we have...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57210	Nothing Nothing. [[/Intruder: No, no.]] No more...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57211	Article 238a) suggests that for the agenda and this, these proposals around, the urgency is voted by the raise of hands because it is obvious that many MPs have not brought the keys.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57212	I won't do it because the MPs have already been warned enough and we will raise, with an electronic vote we will determine. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57213	Article 238a has been injured. Because if it's proposed on behalf of the club, I suggest on behalf of the HDZ Club this is accepted. And it's obvious to everyone that there's far less of a representative here than there is in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57214	The Rules of Procedure have not been injured, because we have determined that in the case of options and proposals, we will vote by electronic means in the way of voting. And keys, take care of your keys. A man can do it, but not an animal. Yeah. We're going to an emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law attesting the multiannual financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 96 votes in favour and 6 abstentions, this proposal for an emergency procedure and for the working session of the presidency, Madam Vice-President, was included in the agenda, because I am calling and there is no need to call her. You can consult in peace. Second. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 94 for, 3 abstentions included in the agenda and this bill of urgency. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Arab Republic of Egypt on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax avoidance. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. With 97 for and 2 abstentions and this bill included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Moldova and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax avoidance. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 93 for, 3 abstentions. Entered into the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act. Please engage. We can vote. Score. With 81 for, 9 abstentions and 3 against and this final bill included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia, proposed by MP Valter Poropat. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 73 for, 16 abstentions, 10 against. Entered into the agenda by emergency procedure and this bill. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established that I am not reading. First of all, if I don't read the whole agenda proposal, I suggest we publish it as usual. Consent? Okay. Now respected representative Tonci Tadic. The agenda has been adopted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57215	Dear Mr. President, on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament is under points 37 and 38 of the HSP's proposals regarding the economic belt, i.e. the declaration of the Adriatic for this particularly sensitive sea area. It's been on the agenda for over six months. I kindly ask you to take advantage of the authority of the President of the Parliament and ask the Committees of the Croatian Parliament to do their part of the work so that the Parliament can finally begin the debate. As for the declaration of a sensitive sea area, we are also being trampled by deadlines because in July, it is a session of the Committee on the Protection of the Sea Environment of the International Maritime Organisation and it would be good to do so before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57216	Thank you. Gentlemen, the view of the agenda agenda agenda and the change of order is a second question. This is a matter that comes from and opinion, needs both opinion and committee, needs the opinion and government and order of the agenda when it is established has our famous Rules of Procedure which regulates it. So please do not present now proposals and assessments relating to changing order or putting on the agenda. This is now a fixed agenda, and when and whether certain points that are included in the agenda will be shown in fact and in the agenda. Whether to move to a point higher or lower is a matter that needs to be solved by committees. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please let's go vote. Let's engage to determine the quorum. Please quorum. 79 good. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 19th session with two points. First, the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the International Commission for the Sava River Basin on the Commission's headquarters. Second, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Contaminants from the Land with the Final Proposal of the Law. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. Please, let's get on with it. We should vote. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the International Commission for the River Sava Basin. We can vote. The result? 93 for, no abstentions, two against. Entered into the agenda. And secondly, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and the addition of the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea from non-cleaning from land. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 89 for, 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda is included.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57224	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I have no objections to the emergency procedure but to not the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57225	No, please. Now you can only, please, only now at this stage of procedure can you only express whether, do you have an objection to the application of one of these two laws by emergency procedure. We'll come for the other one later.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57226	I can pick up a record to break the Rules of Procedure, but let me say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57227	Mr. Pacek, please be kind. I ask you, do you have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these two proposed laws?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57228	I have an observation that you haven't classified the proposal...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57229	It's in phase two. It's in phase two, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57230	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57231	Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 77 votes for, 11 abstentions, 14 against. So that law goes according to emergency procedure. Secondly, who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Austria on the mutual provision of assistance in cases of disasters and serious accidents? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? In agreement with 102 votes, this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed items in the agenda? Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57232	Thank you very much. Here I am in phase two. Your Honor, Mr. President. On 3 March, the Club of Representatives of the HSS sent you a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act for which 26 signatures were collected. So he has all the conditions for emergency procedures as requested. When extending the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure, you should have complemented the agenda with this proposal. Otherwise, an emergency procedure has no purpose. Unless 26 signatures are collected, if you are extending the agenda and we believe we should act in accordance with the urgency of the emergency procedure, which is to include the agenda item in good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57233	You're wrong. Why? Because, according to Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 2nd, if the session of the Assembly lasts longer than one day, the President of the Parliament may subsequently propose that the agenda be complemented by new points and this shall be determined in the manner provided for in Article 203(5). Rules of Procedure. And he is obliged to propose that the President of the Assembly be added to the agenda when he asks for it during the session in writing to 1/3 of the total number of MPs. 1/3 didn't suggest it, a. So it's completely irrelevant whether or not it's an emergency procedure proposal. This proposal for your law was adopted on 8 March amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act and there is no debate there. There's no argument here. There's no explanation for a esteemed colleague. You've put your objection to it. I've given you an explanation, and there's no further discussion in the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57234	Mr. President. We have
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57235	Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57236	So we have 20 points of the agenda
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57237	So come on, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57238	Mr. President, we have 20 agenda points left for this session and we probably won't be able to exhaust them. These are points of which some over a year are held in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. We had one case last night that we had four points of the agenda, one of which was eight months on the agenda, and it didn't enter the procedure of the Croatian Parliament until late last night. I don't think that's a good practice. Since not all proposals are equal I don't see any reason why these proposals should go by emergency, on... formally be procedure, but it's de facto. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's a good relationship between the government and the Croatian Parliament to make proposals at the last minute, and then to include some points for months or even a year on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament without de facto entering the agenda. I don't think that's a good way to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57239	Thank you very much. It is a matter of the Rules of Procedure, and another matter is the opportunity and parliamentary majority or government about inclusion. It's another thing to stick to the Rules of Procedure. And since political interest will be included in the agenda, whether the government will give its opinions, committees will give their opinions, it is also a matter of parliamentary tactics and political parties and the government. Is there a lady and gentlemen? Since there are no objections to the inclusion of other points in the agenda, the addition of the agenda has been established. We're going to the vote. In accordance with Article 204(2) of the Rules of Procedure, and ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure a supplement to the agenda of the 19th session with a point of interpretation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of health, proposing dozens of MPs. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. In the follow-up of the 19th session of April 10th, we will begin the discussion of health care. In this regard, I will propose a pooling of discussions on the next points. One, Proposal for a National Health Development Strategy 2006 to 2011 and first reading of the law. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, in Voluntary Health Insurance, on Health Insurance, on Health Safety Protection at Work, on Health Insurance Law Supplements, amending the Health Insurance Act, amending the Health Insurance Act, these are the three last laws proposed by SDP, PGS, SBS, MDS and SHS clubs. The debate by the representatives of the clubs would be proposed for 20 minutes together with the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of health, so to conduct this united debate. It's the same matter. Any objections? Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57241	Mr. President, allow me on behalf of the SDP Club to oppose this proposal of yours, or we cannot accept it at all. Don't mind, but it does sound pretty unserious. Health care, the health sector as a whole, its funding and its organisation and restructuring are a very objective and serious problem of the state. And that is why we think that a completely false message would be sent to discuss one big and objective and serious problem in the Croatian Assembly as if it were some unserious proposals or political proposals given by some unserious minority in the Assembly. In fact, it is a national health development programme, which is certainly at least a medium-term and important project. It is a few laws that we should assume are part of the instruments for the implementation of this national health development strategy and it is about laws that are not identical, which define completely different aspects and the only thing that connects them is this word as far as health is concerned. We could accept the unification of discussions on similar laws because there are here in this set of eight, nine and seven laws there are also amendments and additions of the same laws sent from different clubs or government. However, to unite what does not represent the same matter at all, we think that it is truly unacceptable, very inconclusive and could be interpreted, first of all we might consider it as an unreal wish of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to discuss and correct some of the problems or reduce health problems rather than that we are purely formally dealing with something here in the Assembly that is not actually being resolved. And that's why we can't possibly accept this proposal, and even less since there's now a cumbersome interpretation that really has nothing to do with what I've been talking about so far, it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57242	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I certainly won't engage in this long and detailed explanation. If not for nothing else, then I warn all other colleagues that the transfer has long gone. But allow Mr. President, eight laws and one interpretation indeed seems, that is, eight strategies and one interpretation seems indeed an exaggeration, especially for the reason that a united debate on behalf of clubs would last 20 minutes. That's about two minutes by strategy and interpretation. It is impossible to express any attitude even to express itself in a very easy manner. So we would like to join this proposal, I think it's very reasonable, of course not with all this argument that it should be classified into at least three groups, which is certainly possible, and then we could conduct a hearing of three laws per twenty minutes. Because otherwise it's impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57244	Interpletion will go separately in any case, not in a united debate. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57245	Mr. President, I will not qualify your proposal but I will respect it, but I ask you that after this debate we would not have to write a proposal for conclusions that we consider this a preliminary debate I would ask you to give this bloc much more time to individual debates of laws, to jointly discuss similar laws, given the great importance and social importance for the citizens of Croatia that arise from these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57246	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, therefore, the interpretation of the government's work in the field of health will be discussed separately. I am voting on the proposal for a strategy with a proposal for these laws to be held in the first reading in a united debate. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 68 for, 1 abstention, 16 against. Therefore, a united debate will be held on the proposal for a national health development strategy and this set of laws in the first reading. Four laws apply to the same matter and have one paragraph practically self. On 10 April, we also have a debate on the vote on trust or mistrust of Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, we have a debate on the system, on the National Security Act, the Security System and the Report on the work of the National Monitoring Committee and the course of negotiations. And on Wednesday, the President of the European Parliament will address here and will have a programme with numerous clubs and representatives of that day in parliament, so we should conclude this session on Monday, so on Tuesday, even though it will also be on this part of which the President of the European Parliament will address. So, resuming the session on April 10 at 9.30 with a set of health care. And now I'm asking you to move on to the current clock. Since last session, you need three MPs to ask a question. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57248	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister with ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Agriculture Minister, I'm giving you a question. In the Croatian public, claims have been made that there is no less than a thousand tonnes of June and beef waiting for us to enter Croatia at our borders. It's unusual that this meat doesn't appear right now, but it appears, under the quotes of cow madness. Our lab confirms it, English, thank God, disproves it. The damage, however, has occurred. The Croatian cattlemen, the Republic of Croatia, are suffering. There is no responsibility for damage within or outside the Ministry. There are doubts that the cow is not from the family household they're talking about. The police have been conducting an investigation, apparently two weeks ineffective, which deepens even greater suspicions. Furthermore, 313 municipalities, in accordance with the Law on Agricultural Land, have made a programme of availability, which is mostly intended for sale in accordance with the criteria and criteria for the availability of agricultural land in the function of rounding up family holdings, all for the purpose of adapting peasants to join the European Union. Most of the program has the consent of this ministry. The availability procedure has been stopped. The public is being placed on land policy which is so far contrary to the law. The procedure has been stopped again by the will of bureaucracy in your ministry. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, why has he not resigned until now, or why has he not been removed? How long will you protect your assistants who protect the interests of agromafia by their actions, and by saying, work against the interests of the village and agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57249	Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I will try to answer you. Personally, I have no information that some large column is standing on Croatian borders waiting to enter the Republic of Croatia with no meat. And as for cow madness, I will be quite responsible to say that on one of the samples that came to our laboratory, the laboratory of the Croatian Veterinary Institute, there was a suspicion. That sample was analyzed three times on the method used by the lab. It's a quick method and it's the only method that this lab is working on. It's an absolutely reliable method that we can rule out when we get that result negative, it's absolutely negative. But in all the shows, I made it clear and loud that there was doubt. No one from the Department of Agriculture has ever said that a case of BSE has appeared. So there was a suspicion. In accordance with the suspicions and in accordance with the procedures the sample was passed to the reference laboratory in Weybridge where thank God, I would say, found that the sample was not positive but that it was negative. In the situation where we were in place we appeared completely transparently, informed the Croatian public and of the appearance of doubts. Because that's the first case after 73,000 samples examined that we had a case of suspicion. And we must comply with the prescribed procedures. We didn't heat up the story of cow madness, or anything else, or for that very reason we wanted to discover the identity of neither the owner nor the slaughterhouse where it was until we got complete information. The fact is that the media discovered identity, the fact is that there are some I'd say indirect damages, but I'm free to say that these damages are no catastrophic scale whatsoever. For the space of reason, because the ministry has shown its transparency and has shown that citizens can trust the institutions of the state, that there are no accumulated actions, or failures. I am free to say that I am far happier that we have done so and made known our suspicions than we have not made public with the Croatian public, and that the sample has come and that the confirmation that it is a positive sample has come. As for the situation itself, I can also say that the ministry has taken all necessary actions, as we have identified a lot of irregularities during the inspection process. For these reasons, we've also hired the police, the crime police who are investigating a complete case. And also, since there is a reasonable doubt that it's not about the throat from that farm that went there, it's also taken samples to analyze the DNA. So we don't want anything, we don't want to hide it, we don't want to cover it up, we want to go very rigorously. The first measures we took were that two authorised veterinarians, once from Vinkovci Veterinary Station, once took public authority from Vukovar Veterinary Station because we found that they participated in this, I would say, illicit actions. Also, our veterinary inspectors are in the field, combing the entire area. Last week, a slaughterhouse facility in Dalmatia was also closed for reasons of non-compliance under the regulations. And what I want to finally say about this problem...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57251	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57252	...that we'll make it right...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57253	Thank you very much, Minister. Agent Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57254	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here, apparently the minister predicted what I asked. I asked why so far no one in the ministry has resigned, which is why no one has been removed and until when you will protect, that was my question, all those who doubt that agromafia is doing what it is doing, and under the official authority's blessing that what's going on is happening. That's what I'm wondering. And that was the main question. This is all already known, in the media. And according to that old mouse in the mouse, and the cat to lead the wheel, that's proof for us here's a delay of six months of screening because obviously we don't have to rely on the rule of law because the system doesn't work. I think that was the point of the question. And if we got that answer, then we'd believe you did everything in your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57255	Thank you. Second question, Honorable Representative Petar Mlinarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57256	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the parliamentary question to Mr. Bozidar Calmeta. On 27 September 2005, Prime Minister Ivo Sanader pledged to support a tour of the city of Vukovar on the opening of the capital square in Vukovar. On this occasion we thank him because the design of the southern bypass Borovo settlement and the town of Vukovar is from the node of the state road D2 on Trpinjska road from the hub with the existing state road D2 behind the city of Vukovar near Vucedola in the total length of 16 kilometers in progress. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have again proven their constant support and understanding for the town of Vukovar. This southern bypass is part of the fast road and will bring Vukovar an increase in the capacity and permissive power of the state road D2 in the city of Vukovar, an increase in the level of safety and level of transport service, an increase in the level of environmental protection and a reduction of harmful impacts on the city, the rapid development of the city of Vukovar and its suburban settlements and surroundings and an increase in the quality of life in the city of Vukovar. My question is when will start the project of the connected direction Vukovar south bypass on the existing Zagreb-Lipovac highway, the tenth corridor, so that Vukovar, which is now traffic-insulated from the rest of Croatia, and because of the economic development of Vukovar and faster inclusion of Vukovar in the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, will be included in the fastest possible way on the existing transport network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57257	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57258	Mr. President, Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You said the importance of this southern bypass of the city of Vukovar, and I think we all agree on that, and we agree that this is one of the key shares on the otherwise planned fast road from Ormoz to Ilock. What I can tell you here today is that Croatian roads are preparing competitions for the construction of project documentation for the construction of the road at this time. So the preparation activities, and then the construction of these southern bypasses began and they will clearly flow... as planned. [[You don't understand.]] After the project documentation, the competition will be discussed and then it will start to be realized and it seems to me, the long southern bypass of the town of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57259	Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57260	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57261	Thank you. Representative Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57262	I'm asking the Prime Minister a question. In January of this year, Mr. Prime Minister, the average salary was 4000 595 kuna, the average pension in the same month was 848 kuna and 12 June, which will say that the average pension in the average salary was 40.22%. I have here a paper signed by you, Mr. Prime Minister, on the text of an agreement on the support of the Prime Minister, Dr. Eve Sanader... Government or shortened contract with the Croatian pensioner party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only one point has been respected from this contract, item 7, which guarantees that the Croatian Parliament will exercise its confidence in Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, the party's present representatives. However, in point 2 of that agreement, it states that a legislative provision on the exceptional annual pension increase will be proposed as long as the average pension on average is 70 % and the total objective of the pension is to be harmonised to 50% of the average salary on 1 January 2005. I ask you, Mr. President, when you signed this document did you know that this promise is difficult on an annual level of 6 to 7 billion kuna more than these current 30s, did you have anyone to calculate what that cost, whether or not you did it for ignorance. Did you make this promise simply to cheer up, say, the pensioners? Did you make that promise because you weren't focused enough so... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57263	Thank you very much. The answer to the question of the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Thank you very much. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57264	Mr. Representative, I highly appreciate your interest in the contract we signed with the Croatian Pensions Party. You have to understand that I can't speak louder because of the cold, so please understand if the volume isn't enough or I'll sit down and I'll get closer to the microphone. So, Mr. Representative, I thank you very much for your interest in the contract between us and the Croatian party of pensioners on cooperation. This shows that we sincerely hope that we are really interested in everything that the Croatian Government wants to do and on the plan to strengthen the material position of the pensioners and everything else that is the content of the agreement. But one thing you predicted. So all your rhetorical questions are answered no. Neither we were distracted at that point, nor knew what we were signing. We knew all that well, very well that we were signing, and you're in the analysis of our contract for whose interest we thank you for, predicting one key thing, and that's the key thing to standing, that all that we wrote we'd be able to do if we had the financial situation in the state, so if we could achieve such conditions. So if you'd read it before or after that, you wouldn't have asked a question like this. You have the right to ask, but the answer is this. These are two very serious parties, and the two parties know what they want and know that the material position of the pensioners needs to be improved. You who now care about our contract and the material status of the pensioners, I want to tell you one thing. You've had four years to do something to improve the material position of the pensioners, unfortunately you're not. We do this, this is a government that had the strength and courage and visions to get caught up and pay back the debt to the pensioners and thus solve the beginning, so we expect the end of the second quarter to solve one of the biggest traumas of Croatian society. So one more answer. All that stands conditionally is said, depends on the material condition and on the state's financial situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57265	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57266	Mr. Prime Minister, I have a lot of understanding about the problems your government has, because it's really a difficult problem. The government of Ivica Racana has reached an average pension of 37.62%. At one point she raised them to 46% of the salary, left you 44%. It's 40% now, Mr. Prime Minister. The average pensions grew in our term, I just have to tell you, 36%... No, no, 36% have grown pensions in our term of office, and now 9% in 2 years. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It takes exactly 2 mandates to raise your pensions as nominally as we are in one term.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57267	Dear Representative Furio Radin is asking a representative question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask this question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. Recently, the Italian Parliament on the board, which means unanimously, which, of course, excludes any pre-election intention, has passed one amendment to the law that extended the right to citizenship to the descendants of those who, as soon as World War II, had the opportunity to resist Italy and did not. I remind you that Croatia has a far more liberal law that allows the diaspora in Croatia to participate in the joy of the new Croatian statehood. Almost the highest state authorities have critically looked back on both Croatian and Italian citizenships, which is both Croatians outside the country and Italians in Croatia with astonishment. For us, Italians were also used a syntagma of shared loyalty, which brought us back to the atmosphere during the 50s, when our anti-fascist commitment and the fact that with the Croats and other peoples in Istria and Rijeka we built co-existence, then it was called brotherhood and unity. So these reasons weren't enough to remove suspicions from us solely dictated by our origins. I ask you, Mr. President, who have not called and who have not had such qualifications, on behalf of those 9,000 citizens of Croatia who today have Italian citizenship and those 10, 20 thousand who may have Italian citizenship. What do we deserve these qualifications in your opinion, and does the government also think that citizens with dual citizenship pose a danger to Croatia, not as we think a group of citizens with a united, not divided identity?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57269	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57270	Mr. Representative, first of all, I came forward after the law was passed in the Italian Parliament. I said two things in that context that seemed appropriate at that point. At first, I said that we consider it one of the maneuvers of individual options political in the election campaign. And secondly, I said that we would consider all aspects of the law on the international-legal side and that we would answer. However, I want to tell you, without questioning your principle thesis that people with dual citizenship can be a bridge, not a problem in the co-operation of the two countries. That principled thesis stands. Here, however, in Italian law, we already have some analysis. I can say that it has gone too far and that as Prime Minister, I cannot accept such an interpretation. Because this law, when reading the text more carefully, shows that this applies not only to members of the Italian national minority in Croatia but also to members of the Croatians who were after World War I, who are under peace agreements, etc., territories that came under Italy. So, and Italy also gave Croatians, in some situations, forced them to take Italian citizenship. So now that goes for them, too. We can't accept that. Therefore, we cannot accept and it is not good that only in some such as the law, that only in some areas of Croatia, means Istria, Dalmatia, etc., that it applies, and why should it not be anywhere if a member of the Italian minority has the right to Italian citizenship and in Zagreb... Okay, not only in Lipik, Pakrac where there is an Italian minority, but in Zagreb, anywhere. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But it means it's alluding to those areas that were under Italian occupation, and that's something we can't accept. And in that sense, we believe that this is an absolutely pre-election step, and we don't think it's a bona fide. And we'll be able to answer in an appropriate way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57271	Representative Furio Radin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57272	Mr. President, I'm not happy with your answer except for the part that talks about bridges and mergers. If it's a pre-election step, then it's a strange pre-election step for all parties at once. Before the elections, the parties are known to conflict. That's not what they were fighting about. I don't see any pre-election steps here then. Seven hundred and twenty thousand reportedly Croats won citizenship in the world. In the world, it's got citizenship...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57273	Peace, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57274	...to make a deal, without any bilateral contracts. I don't know why Italy is only asked to do such a thing, but I will propose to the Italian Parliament, Mr. President, to follow your advice and to extend citizenship to other Italians living in Croatia. And not to be as restrictive as this and to be bound simply not as you said to occupied areas but to the possibility of options. To options.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57275	Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57276	I thank you, Mr. President, and I refer my question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bozi Bishop. Mr. Minister, in public we often hear that the Ministry of Culture prevents the development of the river, i.e. it prevents development... the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm asking you, how much is there in that truth?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57277	Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57278	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, such information that the ministry is jeopardising the development of Rijeka is absolutely incorrect. The Ministry doesn't stop anyone from developing or blocking anything. That information may be spread by people who do not know or love Rijeka. The river is a city marked by architecture. The special complex of which is, in some way, the protection mark of Rijeka, as in Barcelona, Bilbaou, London, Copenhagen, or perhaps in Genoa, which last year was the city of culture of Europe and which, in fact, took advantage of such a complex in the best possible way, giving it to culture throughout the year and, of course, it is also for the future. It is our duty of the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture to respect the laws in particular when it comes to the laws on the protection of cultural heritage and, in particular, in the light of the sensibilities of ourselves, but also to the public and the victims of cultural monuments during the Homeland War, but of course also to the century of concern about cultural monuments. With insight into the project, which is reflected in the World Bank investor project, it is evident that the World Bank knew that it was a protected area and we have good experience with the World Bank, we have already held our own talks on the restoration and the Diocletian palace and the very center of Split itself and they have, they are highly sensitive to cultural monuments and themselves to the monuments of culture and investment in them. I think if the World Bank knew this, probably the investor who signed the contract, because from that contract it is obvious and visible that these funds will restore this part of the protected area of Rijeka architecture by which it is actually a symbol and a sign, as the city of Rijeka has said. This is about only 3% of the port space, and I think it's up to us to keep it, of course it doesn't mean that we're not flexible in all this, but in any case we'll keep it because it's not only a symbol of the river but also a Croatian cultural heritage that we all have to care about together.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57279	Representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57280	Thank you very much. Thank you for your response, Mr. Minister, I'm really glad that the Rijeka Cultural Heritage will be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57281	Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57282	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mr. Ljubicic, Minister of Health and Social Care. Mr. Minister, a few days ago from the Centre for Social Care, Daruvar sent a letter to a lady, the mother of a child with developmental difficulties, saying that her request for a solution to work with half the working time remains unresolved because she is looking for a competent ministry, which is your ministry. So the Ministry is stopping the Centre for Social Care in Legal Procedure until this ministry's position is established on this issue, and my question to you, Mr. Minister, is which right do you put yourself above the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57283	Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57284	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. For this case, personally, I have to admit this is the first time I've heard absolutely now that the ministry is not behind it, you know that it's the right of every social worker to base an individual case to assess whether anyone needs to or not. If he assesses then the request goes to the ministry. I have to admit that here, at least in your own words, there's absolutely probably a modulus for this mother to have a child with special needs to get what belongs to her, which means she's working part-time and actually the other half gets paid. If you'll allow us to examine it and see if you've actually given the answers to the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57285	Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57286	Of course, Mr. Minister, to answer the facts, because if the Social Services Centre has claimed that when conditions exist, then the Ministry, or you can't put yourself above the law. But I'm worried about something else. So recently, health care has been abolished and assistance to immobile and difficult mobile people living in rural areas, in this city has been reduced to 20 minutes, but another story that is very, very sad. A short time ago at the Municipal Court in Novi Gradiška to object to a person with disabilities who applied for a job competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57287	Fellow Members, express your satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the reasons for the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57288	Well, of course I'm not happy, but I also need to explain some of the things that are happening within this ministry. So, when she was told that the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Employment can hang a cat on the tail, I hope that it will not experience any other laws regarding persons with disabilities. I also ask you to respond in writing because the highlight of hypocrisy and the supplement of the memo in which as the only legal remedy against such work you offer the possibility of appeal to your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57289	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57290	Thank you very much. Question of the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Ani Lovrin. Yesterday, the European Commission's first round of applause to Croatia, the screening for the chapter of the judiciary to be held for 6 months, the reasons for unresolved files, the way judges are appointed and corruption. Corruption in justice and society at all, and in the judiciary scandal after scandal. In the process of electing the President of the High Court of Commerce, judges who dare at all point point out their candidacy against Nenad Šefic's candidacy, the same one, Nenad Šefic, to whom the State Judiciary Council refuses to remove judicial immunity even though the investigation launched in 2001 shows that Šefic has misused the position and authority and that he has obtained a non-performing property benefit of 3 and a half million kuna. The same boss who in the case... to get the money of the Zagreb Bank into the hands of the underworld. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By 7 March, you must make a decision on the President of the High Court of Commerce. I ask you, will this appointment at least try to end crime and corruption in the Croatian judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57291	Justice Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57292	Mr. President, Mr. Representatives, Mr. Stazic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. So first, here's no rain on the Croatian judiciary by postponing the negotiations for chapter 23, the judiciary and fundamental human rights. The shower is only in the announcements of some media, you heard my statement yesterday, you also heard yesterday and a statement from the boss... The European Commission's mission to Croatia, Mr Degert, said that because of the diversity of matter and because fundamental human rights are also related to other areas of negotiation and to the European Commission, and that Croatia also needs time to prepare for these negotiations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, no bad situation in the judiciary, however, I can only say that as far as justice is concerned, the situation in September is going to be much better because we will continue to reform the judiciary in relation to the election of the president, you are now asking me about the decisions of the State Judicial Council, you know that it is an independent body from the ministry, therefore you cannot, it is wrong to ask me about decisions of the State Judiciary Council regarding the removal of immunity. As far as other matters are concerned, it is within the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office who is doing his job. As far as my election as President of the High Court of Commerce is concerned, it will be carried out within the deadline, this government will end crime and its strategy to fight corruption and amend the Penal Code and all plotted affairs in the area of justice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57293	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57294	I'm unhappy... [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57295	All right, let's let the pleasure and dissatisfaction be expressed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57296	Well, I don't suppose we're going to be celebrating this delay in screening as a major success of the Croatian judiciary. Well, it's not delayed because, as you say, it's not bad at all. It's delayed because it's bad, so we all know it. Well, now no excuses will help. The situation is bad, you said why it's bad. The way judges are appointed, the backlogs and corruption. My question to you was not about why DSV makes decisions like that. I know the DSV is independent of executive power. We all see what decisions he makes. That's the second pair of sleeves. Your authority is to change or propose a change of DSV law if you see that DSV is not working. My question was very specific. What do you intend to do in this appointment and do you intend to prevent corruption in the judiciary? I didn't get the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57297	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57298	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll ask Minister Calmett. Mr. Minister, families that now have no electricity and have according to official records are just over 5 grand. According to HEP calculations and dynamics, this could be resolved in seven years and six months. It's similar with water where there are hundreds of settlements where people don't have water and they had water. Of course, I don't have to explain that it's clear that these are the basic conditions without which you can't survive except in the most primitive way. So I ask if Mr. Minister Government has a program to resolve it and can you tell how long it can be resolved?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57299	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57300	There is still some 5 thousand and 500 households to connect to electricity, or if it is translated into some financial indicators, it is about 300 million kuna. So that's one problem. And the other problem that may be even bigger is that we often have a problem with the implementation of these projects, so first we have to find the owner, come in contact with him, and then go into that realization. The problem of electricity and water supply is certainly in the government's programme, and we, here I'll just say, last year 2,000 482 buildings are connected to electricity, so in one year. So if there are five thousand and 500 left, then we can't possibly talk about some kind of dynamic that will be realized in the next eight years. That'll certainly be a long time ago. This year alone, HEP planned 42 million kunas for connections. In addition, we will clearly add the funds of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development so that this year we will solve for sure a number as well as last year, perhaps a little less. In fact, there is a third problem, which is that the only price of the connection depends on the conditional location between 4 thousand in the area of Vinkovac or I do not know in the area of Sibenik up to 17 thousand kuna. Because the rest are mostly remote objects, which are dislocated, thus costing to connect these individual objects much, much larger than when the objects that are located within a village or some settlement are combined. When it comes to water supplies, we also have a programme and water projects together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Croatian Waters. I will only mention two major projects of this government that concern areas of special national concern. I will not mention now the Krapina-Zagorje County and some other county where this project is going and that is the watering of the Zadar hinterland of 150 million kuna and... Eastern Slavonia where the project weighs 400 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There, 390 million kunas exactly. We also add to this the project of integrated development of the local community or EIB2 where around 500 units of local self-government have run mainly for municipal infrastructure and mostly water supply. So, here's... The next few years indeed the solution and the water supply and the electrification that will be in the final and not only final but also that many places that so far and before the war and so far have not had water or electricity and water and electricity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57301	Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57302	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'm afraid the matter is being simplified as follows. If you have to invest 300 million, you can't take care of it without three years a hundred million and I don't see you investing 100 million. And another thing. There's a paradox I have to mention because it's convenient. In so much darkness, we're celebrating this year's Nikola Tesla year is indeed paradoxical.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57303	Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57304	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Cobankovic. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to establish a service on forest land to raise several years of landfall in the island and coastal areas has created the possibility of a significant step towards the rise of permanent plantations, vineyards, olive groves and orchards. On the basis of the mention of the decision, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a list of forest areas on which it is possible to establish a service. So far, several raids have been raised on the basis of this decision. Unfortunately, according to information I receive from the field, a large part of the decision to establish a service has been waiting for ten months so that the implementation of the entire programme becomes questionable. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to determine the reasons for the dispute in your decision-making. Already now, decisions were to be made during the spring so investors could prepare the planting site have not been made and the planting has been moved for one year. This also means slowing down the implementation of the Government's operational plan for raising vineyards, olive groves and orchards. So, the question is, Mr. Minister, what did you have in mind to speed up the resolution of the applications for the right of service on forest land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57305	Minister Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, surely the establishment of services on unprocessed forest land is a function of increasing areas under long-standing crops. And normally, according to what you've said, we've made certain decisions, we've gone into procedure. As a whole, there are certain restrictions within the implementation of this process. We have so far, can say that the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for State Property Management has brought 46 positive solutions to date or turned it into hectares of about 1500 hectares. That there are 15 other cases with a circulatory rate of 600 hectares ahead of the decision. But also we at the Ministry, regardless of this part, are dissatisfied with the dynamics of carrying out these activities, and accordingly we have prepared a certain intervention in the form of amendments and additions to the Law on Forestry, which is addressed to the opinion. I expect she could be in the government next week and then headed to the Parliament. And also one government regulation that will simplify the process itself and the procedure for resolving the establishment... But I must also point out that there is a part of the problem that is not directly in the jurisdiction of either the government or the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's part of the problem that concerns solving that part of the problem that's on the ground since I say an example of the development of parceling laboratories and solutions that sometimes take a very long time. There's a decision, there's a lot of land to be done, there's a paralytic lab, and it's all settled in the catastro. This sometimes takes a long time because it is a prerequisite for the conclusion of a service contract. So we're spotting you, I'd say points that limit faster implementation, faster implementation of the establishment of services, and we're going with certain interventions. Both in law and regulation, and we will try to speed up the process of parceling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57307	No one named Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57308	Thank you. This answer, Mr. Minister, will certainly be most pleased by these people who have submitted their demands, and will be well received in Dalmatia because it is obvious that more than 1500 hectares of new vineyards and olive groves will be planted on the burned-out surfaces in this and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57309	Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57310	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Surely, the chapter of the agriculture negotiations with the European Union will have the most extensive consequences for the state of agriculture in Croatia, the economy and political relations within our country. The last few weeks I've been fed up with queries, suggestions, remarks, so I'd say even some fears of a number of associations of agricultural producers in the county from which I come and beyond. So I'd just like to mention some. This is, for example, a dissatisfaction with the way the Law on the availability of agricultural land is implemented. It's an increase in the compensation for the water industry. It's also the realisation of incentive policy. Not to mention today's unremarkable suspicions about the appearance of cow madness. It is also a problem of sensational approach to the problem of bird flu and so on and so on. Therefore, it is obvious that, and the fact is that our Minister of Agriculture is the most employment minister in the "Current Hour" already several sessions in a row that discusses the need to submit a report on the state of agriculture in Croatia. In this way, we could certainly discuss all these issues in an argument and quality manner, and I would say with such a single debate and give our negotiators a better position to enter these, to join the European Union. I am interested in Prime Minister. Can you briefly present the main assessment of the situation in these issues I have asked, and does the Government intend to submit a report on the situation in agriculture in a very soon time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57311	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57312	Mr. Representative, here are a few comments on these specific questions you mentioned. First of all, you said the bird, you mentioned the bird flu, the water... the water economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The general concern of our farmers is both with regard to negotiations with the European Union and with regard to their future within the European Union. Well, I generally think that when it comes to bird flu that we have, that we have reacted effectively, appropriately, and that we have shown that we know in every situation although, of course, this disease can spread much faster than everyone else thinks. We also saw yesterday's latest case in Germany that she also moved on to mammals. This is, therefore, one problem I deal with, which deals with the whole world, which is addressed by the European Union and which deals with Croatia. In these circumstances, I believe that we reacted well, and I expect people's understanding that we had to react vigorously and more perhaps than people expected. When it comes to the water economy, I will say, and another representative has announced the question about it, I will say that we are watery, this contribution to the water economy was primarily based on the practice of defending from floods, drains and even maintaining the entire system. As you know, Croatian waters had to take care of the network of channels of first and second categories while the third and fourth categories were left to local self-government and owners. We in this water, in this Regulation we had predicted that both the third and fourth groups should be financed from this. It means that we transfer to the counties a portion of this water economy fee. But since there really is a problem then the cost increases. So on the one hand, we need to know that the entire network of defenses and the flood defense system, the rise of the embankment, the cleaning of channels that aren't partially cleaned even on the 15th, 20 years that something has to be financed because when the flood occurs, it's, then it's too late and then it can only be taken care of. It is necessary to act preventively. But I announce, because this is really one of the acute topics at this point and the current topics at this point that we will see after a month of application of this Regulation and consider, see what further with it? As far as agriculture is concerned, I think that, regardless of the fact that we are negotiating with the European Union, whether we will enter tomorrow or not into the European Union. And I think that we will enter the European Union, that it will be good and for agriculture we must do everything to make our agriculture competitive to the European neighbours from Macedonia, Bulgaria further. I therefore believe that agricultural problems are not related to negotiations with the European Union. Moreover, I dare say that negotiations with the European Union will give that further emphasis on agricultural reform. As far as we're concerned, we're absolutely open and that's my answer, direct to your question. We are also absolutely open to a principled debate about the situation in agriculture in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57313	Thank you. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57314	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. A question for Minister Cobankovic. In order to protect Croatian national interests and the interests of Croatian fishermen and to protect and preserve the living treasures of the sea, and to protect our ecological interests on the Adriatic, this House in 2003 declared the protected ecological and fishing band of the Republic of Croatia. That's when he's called a weird beak and all kinds of other names. Today he, not only is he not a wonder, but he is not a beak and today he is the strongest Croatian argument at the beginning of the fisheries negotiations with the European Union. We expected that, of course, the ecological-fishing belt would also create an economic belt and that we would fully strengthen our interests and articulate our right to that part of the sea. We expected everything, but we didn't expect that we wouldn't use the functions and what brings the eco-fishing belt. We have commissioned the Government of the Republic of Croatia to conclude fisheries partnership agreements as soon as possible. That hasn't happened until today. The facts say that all island countries, all coastal countries unilaterally declared the same decisions. Italy now without asking Croatia declares an ecological belt. Slovenia is doing something that is polite I will not call a real name. All the countries have done the same, and we are silent. Not only are we silent, but our negotiators do not mention that we have a decision on the eco-fishing belt. They don't mention the most important institute...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57315	Thank you very much. That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57316	My question is why our negotiating group did not tell the European Commission that we had a Decision on the Eco-fishing Belt. Why the Commission of the European Union...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57317	Thank you, Mr. Markov. Time's up. Petar Cobankovic, minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57318	Thank you very much. I'll answer very briefly. It is about the launch of a multilateral screening held in Brussels last week for the fisheries sector. As part of the screening, there is an introduction to multilateral screening with European Union legislation where practically our representatives listen to what needs to be done. Then we also prepare a video of the situation in Croatia and then a bilateral screening is held where the situation is presented with a proposal for measures to be taken in the next period in order to bring legislation into line. And accordingly, our negotiators will negotiate in the next period. As part of the negotiating groups on fisheries, representatives of fishermen and large fishermen who are joined through the Croatian Chamber of Commerce as well as the Ceha of Fishermen, as well as the Union of Fishermen, are included. So that they are participating in negotiations and together with representatives of the ministry and other bodies will actively contribute to making these negotiations as successful as possible for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57319	Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57320	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, unfortunately, you haven't met the European partners that we have a decision on the eco-fishing belt. You need to get to know them that of the total catches in the Adriatic Croatia catches 7%, Italy 92%, and that difference falls to Slovenia and Montenegro. That's the problem, gentlemen. Legislative harmonisation is now being carried out. I guess we have to say that we have to harmonize our decision made by this House that we have it, and we are afraid to say that we do, and so I ask if the public of Croatia will hear if we gave up that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57321	Representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57322	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. One question for Mr. Minister Hanse Kirin. What is obtained through the project of the Ministry of Interior and the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia on the exchange of data in the vehicle registration system and the exchange of data on the technical checks carried out with the technical inspection stations. In fact, we would like to be sure that the County Road Administrations have the right information because they get funding from it. Because every mile of new road is welcome for new cars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57323	Minister Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57324	Thank you very much for this question, Your Honor. As part of the rationalisation of operations in the Ministry of the Interior, one of the segments meant improving efficiency and reducing the number of people was safe and a project to exchange information data between the technical inspection stations and the Ministry of the Interior for the reason why we want to reduce the number of people who have worked manual jobs so far, to shorten the waiting time for citizens, and to get real information, especially when it comes to unregistered vehicles that pose a danger to traffic, not only for themselves, but also for other traffic users. Accordingly, this information project carries several things. First, technical data are updated within a few minutes, so they are transferred to the interior ministry database, which should have been carried in two places so far. So it's just the ministry. So, when you registered at the Technical Review Station, you could still go to the Ministry where they re-entered those data and on these jobs worked a considerable number of employees, and now that is no longer necessary. It is entered in one place and automatically reads in the Home Office database in a few minutes, reduces the number of employees on these jobs. This creates certain savings and functionality of the speed of problem solving. Then, data on registered vehicles delivered on an up-to-date basis enable them to avoid error. If a person accidentally forgets the traffic permit to punish him for this because we had no idea whether the vehicle was registered or not. So that's how we avoid the possibility of a mistake, that when the driver forgets his license, that's why we have to write him a ticket because he didn't have it. Because we now immediately see whether the vehicle has gone through all that is necessary under the laws of the Republic of Croatia. It means whether the technical examination has passed and whether it is correct to traffic Croatian roads. The interconnection between these systems allows for one more thing. If a man didn't pass a technical examination at a technical inspection station, it means he won't be able to go straight to another station and go through some kind of connection there. So we introduce the same criteria and the same criteria, that is, control at all technical inspection stations in the Republic of Croatia, and that will enable our inspectors to manage easier, first unregistered vehicles in the territory of the Republic of Croatia where we will be able to determine immediately on the road according to the plate which is registered and which is not registered. We will enable better control, meaning authorised persons involved in the examination means in cells for technical examination, licences, etc. So we're introducing order and surveillance... in the technical inspection station, we are increasing the general picture of safety as regards traffic in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, this system makes it very possible for citizens, to warn those citizens and to see which citizens who have, for example, forgotten to register a vehicle or for whatever reason did not register a vehicle within that legal period, we within a few minutes get a notice from the police administration after updating the data and immediately informs the vehicle owner that it is not a registered vehicle and that it must be carried out within the legal time limit otherwise it must check out the plates. So again, we're going to hand in hand to the citizens to prevent people from warning of their obligations so that we don't have to pursue legal sanctions in connection with unregistered vehicles that are located with the owner. In addition to the above, the system will do well what we have not had so far. You are aware that we have vehicles that have typed numbers, that are stolen and come under the same registration or different registration, the same type and brand of vehicle, on the technical inspection stations. So, with a quality comparison of data within the MUP system, we can determine whether the same vehicle has arrived with different registration marks on which the Technical Review Station and thus preventably act on possibly alienated vehicles which have so far been due to system failure and passed on to technical checks. So, also from the belt, the point of view of traffic safety, traffic on Croatian roads, but also from the point of view of the safety of citizens so that every man who comes to the registration will automatically get vehicle information. What's very important...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57325	Thank you very much. Representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57326	Thank you very much. This is exactly what's new and good for all the citizens who have their own vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57327	Representative of the Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57328	Dear President of the Parliament, Prime Minister. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your successful journey through the eastern and southern provinces of Croatia after which you earned the title "Sanader Beg". For a year, I didn't, "Flee, Beg," after a year I didn't ask questions, it was more or less clear to me. However, I must ask a question that is closely related to the question asked by Mr Furio Radin. So far, there has been a rather superficial phrase that you yourself and your Government, the State Secretary, have justified all moves of Italian and foreign policy, as is the issue of internal affairs, about pre-election situations. In my opinion, it is a very thoughtful one, and as Srdjan Radić alas Furio Radin said consensually to Italian politics which I would call "the strategy of the capital, capillary Italianisation of Croatia". To buy first banks, to allow these banks to make preferential loans with the Italian Union on lower interest rates, to try to prove that the photos, or the consequences of anti-fascist individual crimes, are worse than fascist crimes. After that try to revise the whole history... and then put pressure on you personally and on this High House and Croatian Government through the embassy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in recent times, this is about an invisible process of toponymous revision of Croatian history that I will illustrate on the collision of two metaphors. One metaphor is Giuseppe Garibaldi, who for the Italian people is a great statesman of unification. But its symbolic and metaphorical value in the Croatian people is unimperial, would even dare to say unfascist. He is in Istria all, in cities, especially Motovun suppresses the great Croatian...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57329	Thank you very much. Answering the question of the Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. The answer to the question has been asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57330	...so I ask you to say whether your government is preparing some global strategy for Italian neofascism...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57331	The question has been asked. Please, Prime Minister, respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57332	Mr. Representative, there is no doubt that some of the moves of the Italian government, and I remain on what I said earlier, are not acceptable and that we reject them. Well, I'm gonna add something else that I didn't say to Agent Radin earlier. This Law on Citizenship, for example, states that Italy has left these parts to the Exceptional Agreements, and we know about which, Istria, Dalmatia etc. who were occupied, that Italy had left those parts to the Yugoslav republic. It's literally like that. Italy could not leave something occupied and that has always been Croatian. So it's, I repeat, and it's just about painting the atmosphere, unfortunately, that in Italy certain circles can't do without pasatism, or regents. Unfortunately, some circles. I don't want to accuse the Italian government. The Italian government, according to its official views and how it stood towards Croatia and when it comes to supporting EU accession and NATO has always been correct and always friendly. I'm afraid because of the election campaign, it escalated. But make sure you don't need to be afraid because the identity is very small in Italy, and her chances of something going, not to succeed, but to go into some action are nothing. Therefore, I would not dramaticise the situation, but I would answer that the Croatian Government knows at all times how it will respond to such moves and we will find an answer to this latest move of the Law on Citizenship, because it is also opposed to some European conventions and we will direct them to the Council of Europe and to the European Commission our position with precisely analysed and cited examples which articles of a particular convention, which Italy is also a signator.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57333	It's a famous Leticia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57334	President of the Parliament, you haven't protected me from the incursions of my colleague Furia Radina, and that's why I've timed out. It bit my heart when he said, "We Italians.". He should have said, "The Croats of Italian origin."and in Istria, Mr. President, I'm satisfied with 62% of your response, you've started to think seriously, but you're still prejudiced about the incidents, but this is about the Italian state policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57335	Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57336	I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Since the entire public has become aware of your government's absolute imprisonment, the only place you have to answer the public question is this current clock. Since you're making all the important decisions or most of them away from the public's eyes that we've recently seen on the Ingrad Stone case. Can you tell us in the meantime if you've made a new deal with the PIFs in the Liburni case?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57337	Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57338	Ma'am, you'd be much more convincing if you didn't have these qualifications that absolutely don't stand. This government is working very transparently and informs the Croatian public about all its decisions, including from the closed sessions of the government that we have inherited from all the governments that have been functioning so far, because all governments have had an open and closed part, but also decisions from the closed part of the government's session and should once be told to the Croatian public. And it's not good for you to maliciously interpret the institution of a closed section of the government's session that you yourself have practiced and the governments before you, that you deliberately interpret it. It is necessary to tell the Croatian public, all decisions from that part of the session are open because they are published in "The People's Newspaper" and on the Internet. And please do not use the possible degree of ignorance in the Croatian public for malicious interpretations and in that sense my answer, there is no deal with the PIFs, because if there were then you would know it. It would be either open or closed so it would be published in "The People's Newspaper" and so your question is absolutely excessive, it's political and it's malicious.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57339	Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57340	Well, Mr. Prime Minister, one responsible Prime Minister would take the opportunity to answer this question in a way that the original contract and settlement with the PIFs was a bad deal and that one of your associates was responsible for such a bad job, because you can hardly explain to the Croatian public that you settled for the value of the dispute for 1.3 billion kuna. The value of the dispute was therefore only 500 million kuna, so almost twice the price you decided to give to the PIFs than what was the real value of the dispute, which was also warned by the State Attorney's Office. So one responsible prime minister would not answer like this but take advantage of the opportunity to say that it was a bad job of your government that we found out about only when the press discovered it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57341	Representative Ruža Lelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57342	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna ask Minister Calmetti my question, and I think he's here. The Croatian Government programme from 2005 to 2008 plans to build, i.e. the release of shares of highways from Županje to Lipovac. We see that winter does not stop, it is mentioned, and they present opinions on the difficulties of supplying raw materials from Kamenolom "Vetovo", then fate and "The Stone of Ingrad" and I ask you, Mr. Minister, whether it will slow down or delay the marketing of this stock that was planned for September 2006. I would also ask you, during construction, that during the construction of this highway all local roads are well destroyed especially in the village of Štitar, so whether these shares will be renovated and renovated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57343	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57344	Thank you. Madam MPs, I can answer your question very clearly and briefly, I would say. Neither the weather nor other problems will compromise the planned dynamics of building this section of the highway and it is planned for September. I can already say now given the dynamics of the works, that it will certainly be before the deadline. I find it difficult to say that it will be a month or two before the deadline, but it will certainly be a very important part on the right corridor, which will then practically end the right corridor that goes through the Republic of Croatia completely to the border with Serbia-Montenegro, we will be finished. As for the surrounding roads used by the machinery to build highways, they will surely be rehabilitated and brought into the original state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57345	Representative Ruža Lelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57346	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It is really good to hear that the road will be built, the highway will be built before the deadline, which is very important for our county as well, but I also think about Croatian highways since this section is, that I think the Zagreb-Lipovac highway is one of the profitable highways, and I am particularly pleased that these local roads will be rehabilitated and brought into the original state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57347	Representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57348	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister. I will refer my question to Mr. Branko Vukelic. I come from the city of Sisak from the middle where the traditional economy was related to the so-called so-called so-called economy. The heavy industry, the iron mill, the refinery, so I don't count. With this heavy industry lived craftsmanship. In recent years, unfortunately, a large number of craft workshops have been closed, mostly those in service activities, and in trade. We are pleased to have a special opening of crafts in the field of construction and production activities. The craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs need help to strengthen both competitiveness and introduce new technologies. A major problem with craftsmanship is the lack of professional staff to carry out some of the activities. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you, what are the results of the activities and measures carried out by your ministry in the field of craftsmanship, which all seems to be the ministry to help all small craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57349	Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57350	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here I thank the parliamentary MPs for this issue, because not only in Sisak but craftsmanship is an important part of the economy throughout Croatia, it is something that Croatia's tradition for centuries is not only these years, and that is why the Croatian government adopted a programme of promotion but at the beginning of the mandate, a programme to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The programme also clearly includes craftsmanship as an important and significant factor in the economy and economic development of Croatia. In this programme that has been implemented for two years, i.e. two years now and three years, exactly the guidelines are strategically focused precisely on this part of which you are talking about, how to help craftsmanship and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to actually have as many production crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises as possible, how to introduce as much new technologies as possible, how to make professional professions and educational programmes as possible for craftsmen and I can say that after these two years of implementation of this government programme we have really excellent results. It is not the opinion of me as a minister but rather the opinion of both craftsmen and entrepreneurs because we have made a large poll with 500 entrepreneurs who have used these incentives, they have made a very good statement about these programmes with a very high score and several concrete indicators. In 2005, we spent about 24 million kuna on new technologies. To support crafting, about €11.75 million and €5.2 million in education projects. What's particularly important to say is that 74.6% of the support went into production, so the crafts and entrepreneurs of the production type. And for the first time, we managed to get 56.7% of the support that went to new technologies. This is very important and important because I think that the trend in that part as well as what we managed to achieve last year, which is that for the first time the growth of new crafts went in favour of production crafts and those who have a service activity related to production. For the first time. And that trend of new crafts we have this trend this year. I can tell we're two months short this year we've got over 600 new crafts. It is almost 20% compared to the entire increase in craftsmen last year and that this trend is precisely the result of a Croatian government programme conducted by the Ministry of which I am headed. And I think he's still in cooperation with the Chamber of craftsmen and craftsmen, and it's up to us to step up and in this vocational education. Together with our colleague Primorac, we are working on not only these professional professions, 57 programs that have been introduced into the education system, but also to go to an even better training of these young people who are preparing their crafts. Let's also go watch about enrolment quotas in such high schools that prepare young people for trades. So, to go to the center of excellence, let's help craftsmen and about introducing all the standards and standards that are important to Europe and the European market. So we continue with this program that, I repeat, has shown really great results so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57351	Representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57352	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It's very important what you just said, what this Ministry is doing and what activities it's doing. This is the year of vocational education in high school, so I hope that this reform will also help our craftsmen to provide adequate staff, as well as an answer to all those who wrote to me and directed what all our ministry can do to help them in their regular activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57353	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57354	Thank you, Mr. President. In Zadar, almost pure than birds fly into the air cars. After flying into the air in the last explosion the car of a Zadar mayor parked on the street on that occasion, Mr. Kirin, said that the lives of citizens and their property were not compromised but that the perpetrator had only sent a message. That's why you brought one terrorist act down to the level of a simple message. Civilised societies know the oral, written, electronic message, and what kind of message would this be? Maybe it's some kind of bomb. I ask you, in fact, what kind of message do you send to the Croatian public, but also to potential perpetrators?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57355	Minister Ivica Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57356	... , a few, and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and that perhaps better as a minister, I realized that the insecurity in the country is such that no tourist will ever come to the country again? [[Specially enabled.]] That the explosion was set at exactly the time when no vehicle owner was near, when no one was around and no harm was done. I, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, am leading and giving statements of interest to the Republic of Croatia, but of course I condemn this act as all members of the Government and we will personally see to it that those people who planted it. And if I had said in the context of the message, I was going to say that the explosion wasn't set up to destroy someone's life or cause damage to the larger scales. But it was made for reasons that probably even those who were planted, so a criminal investigation is being conducted, they're well known. Because there's always some motive, and that motive is now being investigated by the police. And for the sake of the interest of the Croatian public and for the ministry where I am headed, and for those of you sitting here, we will resolve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57357	Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57358	You, Mr. Minister, did not answer as Minister in the Croatian Government, but as a defender in the court of this unknown perpetrator, and that is unfortunate. And you see, while the most difficult type of crime has just been booming for the last two years, you're moving out of the operation, for example, a man who's been named 5 times as the best criminal officer. And instead of actually hitting those most difficult perpetrators because of the muggings, the murders, the narco-mafia blooms, you are, instead of hitting the drug cartels, announcing a raid on the brothels.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57359	Representative Ivo Loncar. Here you go. Peace, please. Please, please. There were some exciting words that caused one concern. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57360	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I refer my question to the president of the Croatian government, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Mr. President, in the past few years, no Croatian national institution has caused as much controversy as the Croatian Radio Television. Well, it happened just two months ago, even in this House, that there was a debate in this House about the financial situation on Croatian television. In my deep conviction, it's completely inappropriate because where in the world it's owned by the owner to discuss the business of his own company. But here, that's what happened with us. So now, what's going on? There are honorable and honest people who lead that house, and I can responsibly claim that the people who run that house from the highest to the lowest level are honest, honest and honest people. Once there were prominent party members, many of them respected intelligence, many of them finished counterintelligence of the Belgrade Academy, etc. And now look what's going on? These people are being attacked. I just can't believe it's like that. Apparently, the enemy and domestic traitors let go of their tentacles. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I ask you, when will the institutions of the Croatian state, the MUP, and especially its criminal police and judiciary do their work on Croatian broadcasting on its business in the last 4 years, and especially in 2004 and 2005. Why would I ask that? I'm asking to get rid of today's honorable leadership at all levels of Croatian broadcasting. Thank you very much for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57361	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57362	Mr. Representative, regardless of your brilliant speech skills, I will say two things in answer to this question of yours. First, for all of us, and I know that you are among those people in Croatia, the freedom of the media and the independence of public television about politics is unquestioned. And that's the principle that we must respect, that we all stand for and that I think there's no doubt about. However, everyone's business and business of Croatian radiotelevision must be subject to control, audit, and especially the one who owns it, it is the Croatian Parliament, and therefore I appeal to all those who have something to say in the Croatian public and who appear on different and similar occasions to separate these two topics. And if the Croatian Parliament, when you asked me for an opinion, has the right to discuss the financial report because the owner is absolutely critical, and the institutions of the Croatian state, the authorities of the state administration must control the financial business of Croatian-radiotelevision. I expect that the moment will soon come in Croatia when we will be able to talk calmly about it without those who do not talk about it without those who speak about it on the charge of interfering in the freedom of the media and in the independence of public television. I think that these are two separate things, and if we want to democratisation Croatian society to the end, and I don't think there's one who doesn't want to democratisation it, then the no-goodness of freedom of the media is absolutely the first, without the media there is no democracy because the media is passing on information, and the right to information from every single person in one society is the foundation of democracy. Therefore, the role of all the media in Croatia, including Croatian television, is extremely important for democracy, but I also expect, I hope that the moment will soon come in Croatia when we can talk about financial business without the danger that someone accuses you of jeopardizing his freedom because if such a situation remains it would mean that the fact that public television is fulfilling its role in Croatian society enables her to do business financially without any control, and there is no such thing anywhere in the world and it will not be in Croatia either.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57363	Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57364	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I am pleased with 73% of your response, and now I will tell you why I am unhappy because I have to use the Rules of Procedure. I'm unhappy. I'm going to quote you something. In 1939, a big mustache, world proletariat and proletarian revolution, addressed General Ivanov and said to him: "Let us shoot you because it requires a revolution from us." I would pray that now enemies and domestic traitors would not act on this, a little paraphrasing, so as not to shoot the honorable leadership of Croatian-radiotelevision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57365	Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57366	A question for the Prime Minister. Dear Mr. President, the overall economic co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina has not yet reached pre-war levels, however, there are many still to an insufficient extent of the opportunities used, potentials for its increase, complementarity and interdependence of our economies offer high chances and long-term prospects. Examples are the actions of the Mostar aluminium combination,... Sibenik, Feal, our electricity, power lines, constructors, port plates, etc. including global players such as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the best way, it points to the significant potential of such cooperation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On such large production and logistics chains on both sides of the state border, hundreds of medium-sized and small enterprises naturally rely on each other, all linked to thousands of new jobs, a stronger source and economic growth, as well as the growth of both countries' global competitiveness. Such projects should also provide an attribute to knowledge-based economy through appropriate quality management, coordinated education and training of employees as well as applied research and development in cooperation with the relevant scientific institutions of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In contrast, individual initiatives and individual projects do not have that desired strong positive synergy effect on the economy of both countries as can have joint large-scale products and logistics chains that constitute a prerequisite for a global competitive economy. Economic co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on these principles can also be a model for speeding up economic growth and development in Southeast Europe. Can you tell the esteemed Mr. President what the Croatian Government is doing to further encourage positive processes in this direction and even more strongly drive Croatian businessmen to strengthen the economic cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially taking into account your staff, good friendly relations with the President of the Council of Ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina... Terzić as well as your recent talks in Mostar and Zagreb and your upcoming visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57367	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57368	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, on the very occasion of these two meetings that you mentioned in Mostar and Zagreb, which was back 2 weeks ago, I spoke very widely with Prime Minister Terzic about this topic and can announce here and exclusively that we agreed that on the occasion of my visit to Sarajevo that should be organised recently, we are still waiting for agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the consent of the Republika Srpska to sign an agreement on property-legal relations that has been completed, which has been initialled and which is a pity that it has not already been signed and last year was ready for August when Terzic was in Zagreb, and is ready for the signing and contract of dual citizenship between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The two agreements should be signed on the occasion of my visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, it is agreed that in this occasion, and precisely because of this economic co-operation that you have discussed, we are organising a conference on the economic co-operation of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to which we would invite all leading Croatian economic operators, the leading entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course you also mentioned cooperation on the energy plan, I can say that for now we can be satisfied, but certainly there could be better cooperation when it comes to the cooperation of TLM and "Aluminium Mostar" specifically mentioned "Glencor" etc. certain privatisation plans. Croatia, as you know, has a 12% stake in "Aluminium" Mostar and we are certainly interested in the future of this economic giant and we can't look at TLM either, but neither can Croatia look at how calmly shrunk our hands because we are co-owners in "Aluminium" 12%. Therefore, to conclude Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have a free trade agreement which also has some problems and here I will say in this context that this idea of our free trade agreement is expanding to CEFTA countries has another beneficial character for our economic relations. In the region of Southeast Europe, there is one whole series of bilateral agreements between different countries but they have different character, different criteria, different business conditions, and it would be good because here we are witnessing that Bosnia and Herzegovina has unilaterally amended certain items in the free trade agreement, which is why Minister Cobankovic and his colleague are already having discussions. This is the topic of the talks and of us prime ministers and others, and therefore the idea of CEFTA if, of course, supported by the European Commission and I hope so, the Stability Pact and others that would expand to eight countries would have equal treatment for all and there would be no exceptions that are possible now that you have a bilateral agreement, so someone can unilaterally change something that is not common, not good, not European, but it happens. And in that sense, we will also try to make this idea of CEFTA come to life so that with all the countries with which we have a bilateral free trade agreement, it is practically standardised for everyone and then there is no jumping out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57369	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57370	You were quick. Next, MP Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57371	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored President of the Croatian Government, Honored Ministers! I refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Dragan Primorac. There's a new Sport Act coming up. My question concerns the settlement of the debts of the first football league clubs. As far as we know, the debts are three, four clubs very large and I am interested in how will this law solve the problem of such large debts and how will this solution affect other clubs and, in general, sports in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57372	Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57373	Dear Mr. President, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament! Before I answer your question specifically let me just warn me that the Sport Act that has more than 120 public debates has covered several key segments. It also solves the national strategy for sports development, investment in sport and funding for eight years, solves the question of children in sports, amateur sports, bans on resuscitation of sports facilities and complete information on sport. And one of the points is what you mentioned was reshaping. Croatian sport, and that's true, he's ahead of bankruptcy. At this point somewhere around 700 million kuna is a debt along with interest and you have two options that you can make, respect the law and the first football league and some other send into bankruptcy, or as did the Spanish and some other countries open up the possibility of that reshaping and that clubs begin to operate financially in accordance with the law. The first thing that is necessary to do in this procedure is to determine through the revision of real business and the state of clubs. It is something that has never been made in Croatian clubs, determine the value of debts, establish the value of all the property that one club has because you know today that for example the property of football courts and facilities is within the jurisdiction of local self-government. And ownership of a player is practically the real value of a club. And if you find that there are a series of contracts that no one knows about, then you wonder what the value of this club is and whether it has any value at all and some clubs have more debts than 200 million kuna. The audit is the first step. The whole intensity goes through the transformation that is mandatory for all those who are in bankruptcy made in a way that the state as the greatest believer of course, along with the establishment of other creditors, transfers its rights to local self-government. Local self-government thus becomes the majority club owner, the club starts to operate on a significantly different basis or as a citizen association. Practically you have the space to do manipulations that you can't do as a stockholder society and then the club is able and moves with zero into real business. If he doesn't know the local self-government to do it, of course he always has periods of years, two, three that this club goes bankrupt or for sale. What is extremely important to say about this is that in this whole process we cannot risk that one club that represents a tradition for one environment, for Croatian society, for someone to buy it without investing in the spring. And that's why we've given the opportunity for the winnings coming to the club to be necessary for the first winning to go to the maintenance of that club's rejuvenation. That's how he closed the whole cycle. Otherwise, what I'm talking about is the rule imposed by UEFA, this is one of the preconditions that Croatian football clubs and other clubs can compete and compete in European competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57374	Representative Mario Zubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57375	I thank you for this answer, and I hope that the law will finally regulate relations in Croatian football. We know how important that is to all of us, and that the other and smaller clubs will find profit in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57376	Thank you. Representative Joseph Judge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57377	Mr. Prime Minister, right now, people with disabilities have no privilege of buying a car that has actually been an orthopedic aid to them. We know that a working group is formed that should make criteria and standards. I wonder when the Government will determine the material and legal assumptions for the release of VAT when importing personal car to disabled persons and can we count this to the first rebalancing of this budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57378	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57379	Mr. Representative, there is one problem between us, both your and mine, and all of us in Croatia, which refers to the fact that the Acq'uis provides for a zero VAT rate, so in the legal gains of the European Union. And if we are going towards the European Union, we will probably have to abolish the zero VAT rate, I don't know if it's at this point and it's written in the SAA, but I'm sure that in Acq'uis in legal gains it stands and that's the problem we have to take care of. The other problem is, of course, financial nature because when we were working at this point, you didn't know how much disability, etc. It would be good to withdraw from the requirement to pay VAT. But in any case, we should first calculate, do one calculation to see if it's possible to cover it from the state budget, regardless of what I have great sympathy, compassion, and we would like to get together, but we need to make sure that if we join the European Union that we have to respect the principles that apply there and that, except in some cases, there are no zero VAT rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57380	Representative Joseph Judge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57381	Satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57382	Thank you. Representative Franjo Arabović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57383	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, and I welcome Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Minister and Minister and all present. I will ask my question to Mr Dragan Primorac, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. A few days ago, I had a conversation with the parents of the students who are starting first-class high school this year. We discussed all the problems involved in schooling that we are the only city in Europe that has three shifts right now, it is the city of Zagreb. And the question, in particular, is that I'm going to rely on you to meet all the conditions and preconditions for the successful realization of the prom plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57384	Minister Dragan Primorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57385	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you've shared your question in two segments. I will first answer, I first thank the Croatian Parliament for giving clear support for the conduct of the state's graduation, so much necessary, so much necessary a test of maturity, but also a test of knowledge that is absolutely compatible with all trends in modern education. The answer to your first question. If we want Croatia to become the most competitive education system by 2010, which is clearly shown in the Strategy for the Development of Science and Education adopted by the World Bank, then we definitely have to stick to the plan that for 4 years the first generation of high school students goes by. In this regard, the Council of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the introduction of State Graduation held close to 200 meetings and working groups for 3 key subjects were formed at the moment: subject of Croatian language, mathematics and foreign language so that for the first time national exams in the Republic of Croatia will be held during May of this year. What does that mean? This means that for the first time in the index and real knowledge, children's knowledge in secondary schools will be tested in exactly the same way in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Croatia unfortunately has an unequal education system, and from the example of Finland which is best rated we know that while the state does not have a uniform education system it does not have a chance to have a quality and competitive education system. Furthermore, the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education is a fundamental institution that exists for the first time in Croatia and will objectively speak who is who in education is set up. The principal started working and they'll take over... State high school graduations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A brief answer to your question about school facilities. It is true that the city of Zagreb has not participated in the construction of the facilities for years, but since this year in a partnership co-operation made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the City of Zagreb, it is changing and in the next 4 years the city of Zagreb is going each year with the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with 4 new school facilities, which means 16 new schools in a period of 4 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57386	Representative Franjo Arabović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57387	I'd like to thank Mr. Primorac for this exhaustive answer because I'm very interested because I have two graduates in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57388	Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57389	Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. About a month ago, we handed you a draft on the state, better put it to the difficulties in the wood industry in the Republic of Croatia, mostly on northwestern Croatia where the highest concentration of wood and industrial production is. We have also cited a number of concrete measures that we suggest that the Government, in particular in these circumstances, when this monetary policy, cash policy flows do not go hand in hand to exporters aiding the wood industry by considering and proving that other countries in our neighbourhood and by far more developed countries, for example, Italy is helping in different ways to its wood industry. So I'm curious, we've come across verbal support in which time and how the government can help the wood industry. I note that it seems to me to be a good model to help the textile industry at the end of the year that has also received grants and I feel that the same way we help the shipbuilding industry should be helped by the wood industry. So please, if it is possible today to present at least those fire departments or these first measures that are needed to mitigate this situation that has hit the wood industry today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57390	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. MP. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I welcome your initiative and the activities you take to improve the situation in the wood industry in both the area of the city and the county of Varazdinska and throughout Croatia. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, through its wood industry administration, developed an analysis of the state of the wood industry and forestry of the Republic of Croatia, and this analysis was the basis for defining the strategy for the development of industrial, industrial wood processing. This strategy was presented between the other and subject to the court of the public and during the last ambience and based on this strategy was defined by a draft operational development plan which I also told you about during our last meeting and talks that we had. The operational development plan defines 4 development priorities. These are: increasing competitiveness, increasing wood use, developing new products and developing new technologies in the wood industry. However, what is the fundamental objective? The main goal is to increase the level of finalisation in our wood industry. More specifically, which measures this operational programme, which I still call the draft operational programme, implies, among other things: credit lines on a period of up to 10 years with two years of "grace" period and at an interest rate of up to 5%. Through HABOR and with a simpler guarantee system thanks to HAMAG. That's what's the most direct answer, the most concrete answer to the most common requirements of our wood growers. I would also like to point out that this draft operational development plan defines the role of the Committee for the Definition of a new system of selling wood raw materials. As you know, the commission formed by the Ministry has the task of proposing a new way of selling raw materials mass, so wood mass by the Croatian forests. The basic criterion will be that the priority is given by those wood growers who produce products with a higher degree of finalisation. I would also like to point out that the procedure and the definition of the rules on quality of furniture and rules on declaration of furniture in Croatia should definitely end with the practice of importing insufficient quality furniture in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, this plan and programme will continue to co-finance joint performances at fairs in this branch. The operational development plan is under public debate. Our colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture are visiting the county and county chambers of economics. They have a public discussion with wood processors and a good part and what have been proposed by colleagues from the wood industry who have been at my reception with you and all that is heard at such gatherings, public debates, is being built in order to improve this operational plan and programme that I believe we will have in a month absolutely defined and completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57392	Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57393	Satisfied with a series of measures discussed by the vice president. All I'm asking is that what can be used before, because the situation is really hard to deal with because of this frustration that is happening on the monetary market. I'm just warning that the situation is really difficult and as soon as we start to apply this operational plan, I think the wood industry will be easier to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57394	Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57395	Thank you, Mr. President. A question to the Prime Minister. A short time ago, the Government of the Republic of Croatia disbanded the County Assemblys of the Požega-Slavonska and Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the City Council of the City of Velika Gorica. The decision reads the message to citizens that the government protects their will in the elections, and that it will not allow a government that does not come from the people and that message is good. After local elections in numerous units of local self-government, the executive authority was formed by votes of council members who either left the parties on whose lists were elected as their candidates or without decisions by party bodies to support the opposite political option. By accepting the candidacy, the candidates made a promise to the citizens whose programmes and policy options will be represented. Based on this, citizens have also voted after the elections without the will of those who voted for the crossings, the exits, the government as the citizens said no. The reason for these unprincipledities is most often material nature, such as in the municipality of Podgorica where such a council is elected to the president of the council with a fee of two and a half thousand kuna per month, and for the favor of the second councilman, the leg of the sewers changes direction and instead of the business zone goes to the street where the councilman lives. This isn't a lonely case. Let us remember Slavonski Brod, Karlovac, Sisak, Bebrina municipality, Gornji Bogicevci, etc. The transfer price is measured by millions of kunas, and the biggest buyer is HDZ. The citizens have been cheated and the fraud is still being paid. Mr. Prime Minister, what will you do to protect the constitutional provisions that the government belongs to the people and stems from the people?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57396	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57397	Madam representative, you've said everything well except when you mentioned HDZ. I could fight back now with several very murderous examples of your party, but I won't do it. I won't do it. I don't think it's a good idea for us to fight political parties among ourselves, but to try together to find solutions to ensure that the will of citizens, what you said in the opening part of your question, is respected after the election. We've been thinking a lot about it in the government. This has been discussed before and in this House of Highs, and we cannot escape the fact that the simply mandate that the councilman received belongs to him. He was on one, though, on the list of a particular party, and it was certain that the voter who gave his vote had in mind that he was giving it to one political option. That's for sure. And that's something we can't deny, because that fellow councilman of the municipal, city or county congregation or the representative of tomorrow went alone. It's a question of whether or not you'd pass. He was on the list of one party, and he actually went into office. Now, the question that our biggest scholars of the constitution from our current Parliament president to Vice President Arlovic have often asked in our talks, and I am to open this issue. How do you solve that dichotomy? On the one hand, the councilman who is elected representative, who has been elected, has the right and has the mandate on his behalf and on his person, but how to ensure the parties on the other hand. Because you mentioned HDZ. HDZ was the party most practically injured by such. We now have three MPs in the Assembly who have entered the HDZ list and it would be good to return their mandates. It would be a moral act, but they obviously won't do it. Therefore, we are the ones who, when you have already mentioned the Croatian Democratic Community, but because of principle and principle, we cannot change it because it is obviously a constitutional category. We asked for the opinion of constitutional and legal experts, above all Professor Smedrel who worked on both constitutions and constitutional matter and who said that the mandate belonged to the councilman. I'm sure that the mandate belongs to the councilman, but on the list of a particular party, he achieved his mandate in the Assembly, in the council of city, municipal or county parliament, and that's one matter, and that was the reason why we disbanded these congregations that we have to discuss. If we can find some way we'll be the first to be in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57398	Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57399	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad we agree in this section, so we still have to preserve the will of the citizens. But Mr. President, I think it's time. We've been thinking a lot, and now let's do some work. I know that you have requests from a series of municipalities where exactly this happened, where they were looking for it, so it's undeniable though it belongs to the councilman. But let's now go to the polls and see if that councilman has the support of those he has deceived, and that way we will preserve our will. So the point is, let's work a little bit, let's not just think about it, and the fact is Mr. Prime Minister, that the biggest customer of Croatia is the Democratic Community. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57400	Peace. It's not an "sold bride" opera. Peace. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57401	Your Honor, I will not ask a question about dual citizenship. I feel guilty, but what you gentlemen are doing is just pushing citizens towards that citizenship. That's bad. It's a different policy. But the question I want to ask Mr. Calmeta. The Croatian Government intends to launch reconstructions of the Rijeka railway – Zagreb – Botovo. The track should be 61 kilometers shorter. Now it's 330 kilometers long, so it should be at the end of 269th speeds should be increased from 65km/h to 160km/h. Time of travel of goods, travellers should clearly be reduced, and thus turn Rijeka into a zero point of Croatian traffic. First of all, because of their God-given harbor. However, several questions are raised there. Clearly from, when, in what time it will be made, with which money it is financed. Why, however, the gentlemen forget about the train tunnel "Učka" or "Cicaria" anyway, which is, or for which is still '93. I think it was the 25th or 24th of September, the late President Tudjman set up a cornerstone, and nothing until today's day, and we're aware if that opportunity is missed that probably that tunnel will never be. And secondly, what Mr. Biskupić replied, which is with, or what will happen to the old one, with roadside warehouses that are protected by security guards. And on the other hand, we know that the state guarantees a $150 million loan to the World Bank if I'm not mistaken. So, Mr. Minister, why is the possibility of building a tunnel "Učka" or "Cicaria", meaning from Istria to Rijeka, because this area of the Republic of Croatia is de facto the only one in the state that is not connected with the railway line.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57402	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57403	The railway is no doubt a future, and so all the EU member states behave and yesterday and the day before yesterday at a meeting of the quadrilateral four ministers, transport and infrastructure. There was talk about it, and Mrs. De Palaso was present where it was discussed just about the Railways and the need to develop the Railways. Clearly, primarily on the corridor tracks, and then on all the other tracks. This project of the low-level railway on the project prepared by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and the Ministry of Environmental Protection will certainly be given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on deadlines, beginnings, etc. Because it is undoubtedly one of the key capital development projects that is important in the transport sense, but it is also important for the development of the Rijeka port, which, as it is, is imitated in its development. We invest first and we do corridor lines, because that's certainly a priority. There you will agree with me, and when it comes to the track on corridor 10 and when it comes to reconstruction, the construction of a new rail on corridor 5B and the reconstruction of a new rail is worth over 100m euros which is now working on corridor 5C. This problem of connecting Istria with other railways in Croatia is indeed, it is current and it is not normally clear that it cannot, I don't know, come from Zagreb to Istria, but must go across another country. However, in the medium-term plan that HZ has until 2015 will surely approach the solution of this problem and the integration of Istria with other corridors and other railways in the Republic of Croatia. We're aware of that. We know about this problem and it is and will certainly be realised in the medium term, but at this point, I say, priority is the corridor lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57404	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57405	Yes, I absolutely welcome the project. However, without the train tunnel "Učka" and "Ciccaria", you cannot attract a burden from Italy, France, etc. and direct it over this reconstructed railroad towards Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, or worse towards Moscow. If the construction of the "Učka" tunnel does not begin at this stage, the reconstruction of the Rijeka – Zagreb – Botovo railway is afraid it will never. But let us also not forget that perhaps the Istrian economy at this time is the most dynamic in Croatia, that the coverage of exports is 88%, that Per Capita in Croatia is thousands of $935, and that the export to Istria "Per Capita" is $4000 615, etc. In one word, the absence of that tunnel or that railway route is largely blocking the economic potential of the County of Istria. And I would really ask that, if this reconstruction is already being considered, with perhaps several hundred million kunas moving forward and building this certainly for Croatia's vital infrastructure project.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57406	Thank you. Honorable representative next to Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57407	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, my question is for Mr. Shucker's finance minister. In my Međimurje where there is always business activity and other economic activities, one of the main topics of the conditions of approximation to the European Union is certainly the development of the financial market, but also the national fiscal policy of the Croatian state. The consolidation of public finances, the more transparent state budget, the reduction of deficits and the consolidation of the general government, and the acceleration of economic growth,... which you personally promised as a member of the Croatian government and promised upon coming to power in 2003. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's done of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57408	Minister of Finance Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57409	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So I would like to start with the assessment of international and financial institutions, which, with the increase in the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia for the first time in 5 years and a statement by the representative of the International Monetary Fund in Zagreb, are probably the last stand by the arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. And what is most important is that this government will be the first government to successfully complete its stand by arrangement and that the Republic of Croatia will probably conclude a far more free arrangement this year until the entry into the European Union with the International Monetary Fund, which will no longer be similar to the previous ones. And that's how it all shows a number of macroeconomic indicators, because let's not forget that a few months ago in this same High House, Croatia is said to be in recession, to be growing, to be indifference. However, in the last, third quarter of last year, the Republic of Croatia has had the largest economic growth since 5.3% since 2002 and at the end of the year, economic growth for the past year is about 4%, which is for some 04.05 percentage points more than what forecasts and projections and international financial institutions have done, and far more than what was heard in this assembly. However, what is most important is that Croatia has implemented fiscal consolidation i.e. that in 2003, we ended up with a deficit of between 4.1 and 4.2, so we will be within the planned deficit, but this also shows that the share of public debt in the gross domestic product, which is at 2003 level, means around 51% and that fiscal consolidation has not been achieved since 2004 and 2005 the deficit was financed exclusively by the public debt ratio in the gross domestic product, but by reducing deficits and constant economic growth of around 4% did not happen. It has also slowed the growth of external debt, which in 2003 was more than 40% on the annual level, in 2005, it is below 10%, meaning it has been significantly slowed down, and thus has contributed to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to meet its needs for funding deficits on the domestic market and we must immediately say it is not true that domestic banks outside are in debt to finance the purchase of bonds and that, in such a way, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's state budget indirectly generates the growth of external debt, the purchasers of bonds that are insurance companies, pension funds and other funds. So that doesn't generate an external debt growth. I am also pleased that domestic analysts also found that last year the biggest practical generator in terms of external debt was the entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia, so entrepreneurs who were in charge outside. And what I would point out at the end, if the 2006 budget included for the first time all revenue and expenditure. Two or three years ago, if someone had mentioned that revenue from highway financing would have gone through the state budget and there would have been no delay in funding, it would have been declared blasphemous. Here are two months that works perfectly without any problems. So all the revenues and expenditures are in the state budget and what you would like to say is that the consequence of all these measures with the formation of the Treasury, the structure of an internal audit of a completely different way of accessing customs and tax administration is that the revenues in the second month of last year are greater by 28% or 1.2 billion kuna, and in the first two months are 18% or...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57410	Thank you. Representative Velimir Dance. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57411	Just one more sentence, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57412	Thank you, Minister. Minister, thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57413	Thank you very much. I am pleased with your response and I know that for some analyses, the rate of growth is also projected at 4% last year as much as it was last year, and what I only want to point out, it is the desire not to let you, or all of us do not have any disturbances on the world market, above all I mean an increase in the price of oil, because in that case I don't think it could be achieved, but also what I think the Croatian government headed by President Sanader should take into account in this respect is the situation because the trend of rising the prices of municipal goods and services controlled by local authorities is also one of the reasons that could not be in line with what we want to achieve, and this is the retention of the growth rate of 4%.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57414	Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. In these two years and a few days, your government has been using every opportunity to influence the work of the Parliament, in some things even blocking the work of the Parliament and in preventing the Parliament from discussing and deciding the draft laws. Proposing and withdrawing from the proposed laws, complementing at the last moment, the failure of the Government's representatives to attend the Parliament's session, and therefore we are skipping the agenda, but what is particularly important to me, you are using the possibility of not giving the Government's opinion on the draft law coming from the opposition order, which makes it impossible for this item to be discussed in Parliament's agenda. Given the number of such laws and this session on the agenda, I can call the government's obstruction in the work of the Parliament. We have several laws on the agenda that are longer than a year and a half and we can't open the debate because there's no government opinion, but I would only stick to one specific example. 14th of last year, so 167 days ago, I filed in the procedure of the Bill on Rights and Delegations of Representatives, which is that bill of law which I proposed to the Parliament to discuss and possibly amend that law on pensions under more favourable or special conditions or so on. Parliament pensions. The debate cannot be held because after 167 days, the government did not give an opinion and thus, personally, as a parliamentary representative, you are making it impossible for me to exercise the right of legal initiatives. I ask you, why do you do this and how long will you be serving in my court with undemocratic means in relation to the government as executive authorities in relation to the legislative one?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57416	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57417	Mr. Lesar, the government is not obstructing the work of the Parliament, even more so, the government is doing everything in accordance with the government's trinity, so we can't interfere with the Parliament, I don't think you'd be the first to condemn it and I would congratulate you on that. So the government does not want to interfere in the work of the Parliament, but wants to contribute to the good work of the Parliament. In order for the work of the Parliament to be good, certain legislative proposals that come and on which the government should give an opinion need to be considered by the profession. Therefore, if we go quickly to respond to certain proposals that come without the opinion of the profession, without thinking, and I will say in this concrete proposal that you have made, that I have even consulted the members of your party who have said that they do not quite agree with that proposal. And that's true. Those who sit in the assembly today and can testify will not, of course, be public. So make sure the government does everything, but against what I will always be, there will be the demagogue you sell.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57418	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57419	I expected exactly this demagogue response and thank you for it, because I did not make my proposal on behalf of the party but on behalf of my own. And that someone else thinks in our party, you know that Parliamentarians are allowed to have different views than mine or anyone else. You entered 15 cities a few days ago. This is where you introduced the slow red tape, but I really thought that you were concerned about the fate of parliamentary deputies and that's why you don't give an opinion. But I also discovered article 34. The government law and the waiting is that you worry about the pensions of your members of the government because the same rules apply to members of the government under this article. Well, by changing the rights of parliamentary representatives, there would actually be a change in the rights of government members, and that is why your experts need... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57420	Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57421	Mr. President of the Parliament, I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister about the problems of building apartments under the Law on Social and Encouragement Building. And I would say that so far, about 2,000 436 apartments have been built. There are just over 2,000 apartments in the construction phase and 786 apartments in preparation. These figures, which are slightly above 5 thousand apartments from 2002 to 2006, are therefore built and in preparation, given the interests and needs are small and clear, I would now not be too much of a discussion as to why the Law on Incentive Construction, Encourageable Housing Construction is being obstructed. But he would ask the Prime Minister both as prime minister and as a Splitian to answer me about this circus that happens with the construction of 384 apartments on Brodarica, in the location of Brodarica in Split. After all the contracts signed, therefore, both with the contractor and with all the interested customers and banks that lend credit to the purchase of these apartments. So, even after all the consent received from the ministry and the APN, even after the contradictory statements of the minister and the people of the APN employees and even the letters of the contradictory ones in themselves, I would ask that the prime minister respond when the circus that is currently threatening...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57422	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57423	Mr. Representative, I don't know what circus you're talking about. If you're talking about masquerade, they finished yesterday, today's the first day of corrism, Cinderella, Clean Wednesday. But when it comes to the job in Split, then I will say, I must take Minister Matulović-Dropulić for protection and say that the work is normally taking place. The apartments will be completed two months before the deadline. Two months before the deadline. The city of Split has contracted, according to my information, the construction of municipal infrastructure as well as access roads. And when it comes to APN together with the City of Split APN and our ministry are looking for new locations for future construction. So the job goes on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57424	Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57425	Mr. Prime Minister, obviously you're not being directed. The town of Split sued the contractors and the performer sued the City of Split. And stopped, please nicely, I'm asking you now who's going to be in harm's way after the final lawsuit that's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57426	Representative Tomislav Culjak, please. Tomislav Culjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57427	Mr. President, President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since I was a representative from Vukovar-Srijem County, where there was a suspicion of cow madness, and since there was a negative finding of cow madness from England, I wanted to ask Minister Petar Cobankovic my question. But since he's not here, that's Secretary of State Herman Sušnik's question I'll refer to him. Mr. Secretary of State, you are aware that there are a lot of farmers in Vukovar-Srijem County who deal with livestock farming, how they will be affected by the further development of livestock farming in Vukovar-Srijem County and Slavonia by this case of suspected cow madness and all that followed the case. From the media and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57428	State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Herman Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57429	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Given the negative finding of cow madness confirmed by the European Union Reference Centre in Great Britain, we do not simply see any reasonable reason why this case of unconfirmed suspicion of cow madness could affect both farmers and the development of complete livestock farming in Vukovar-Srijem County. Regardless of the control of this disease in imports, the fact is that cattle are not fed meat with bone meal. The possibility of this disease in the Republic of Croatia clearly exists but it is reduced to a minimum. In accordance with the Law on Veterinary Use and the regulations of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia will have to report any future suspicion of the listed disease to relevant international institutions. Also, each case should be checked in one of the European Union reference laboratories.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57430	Representative Tomislav Culjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57431	I thank you for this answer. I hope that we will all learn from this case, and I believe that both the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture will insist on the transport of agricultural products, especially in the transport of live cattle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57432	Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57433	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. The goal of each government is to reduce the number of unemployed. We follow the work of the Ministry of Economy whose Minister and addressed this question on how to hire as many people as possible, in particular to hire members of sensitive groups and how to actually improve the work of the Employment Service. My question is what activities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship are to increase the flexibility of the labour market, reduce the unemployment rate, in particular through active employment policy measures and the use of which we are most interested in pre-accession funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57434	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57435	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank the parliamentary representative for the question that is very short, but the answer can hardly be short, I will try the most important activities on employment and to say and mention, remind everyone that we have adopted a national and action programme of employment, which is for the first time not only implemented by one ministry or employment agency, but implemented by all practical ministries as part of their programmes as well as the programme that I have already talked about here today when it comes to development... entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the national action plan and the employment programme have clearly its annual operational plans, and these very days the government will also be the annual operational employment programme, which is therefore the consequence of this national action plan and which will in fact define the activities that are in this year and which will be implemented by all ministries and by the clear Employment Office this year. What is important to say is that the annual operational programme has really passed a comprehensive debate and is practically a product of working together with social partners and employers and unions working together on this programme. Clearly, this programme contains concrete activities to be done by the Employment Office, primarily by two categories of unemployed people who are at the Institute and who are in the most difficult situation, up to 29 years of age, over 23% of them are in the structure of the unemployed in Croatia and with those older people, so who are 50 and older and who are actually hard to find on the job market. Clearly through this annual operational programme of employment will be included all those programmes and measures such as the problem of the employment of disabled people, as well as when it comes to the National Programme for Roma and Roma Employment, etc., but what is particularly important with this activity carried out by the Employment Service and all Resort ministries such as the Ministry and the Economy is important to say that an important segment in this regard is and I would say the professional training of the Employment Service, and it is also implemented through programmes such as KARC 2001, which is also aimed at restructuring the labour market, it is a project that is difficult when we speak financially 3 million euros and which is now in its completion and it is actually aimed at improving the professional training of the Croatian Institute. We also have KARC 2002 and 2004 relating to local employment partnerships, so on those counties where the local unemployment rate is higher and through these projects are covered by the counties and Sisak-Moslavina, Vukovar-Srijemska, Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Lika-Senjska, Karlovska, Požeko-Slavonska, Brodsko-Posaviska. There is an amount of around 2m euros in these projects, and it is important to say that we also have a PAR 2005 project where active employment measures are groups that threaten social exclusion, so these are groups that are harder to manage and find jobs, the project has just begun, its amount is 2 million and 250 000 euros. Also prepared are two other projects that will be directed precisely towards what the Croatian Employment Service does, but clearly this ministry. Finally, I want to say a national employment action programme, such as this annual programme and all these projects that are fully in line with European directives, then they are in line with what we are talking about when we talk about the labour market and the employment policy is happening and implemented within the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57436	Krunoslav Markovović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57437	Thank you, Mr. Minister. When I was talking about the Employment Service, I thought about improving relations and, let's say, the inspectorate because many workers are still registered at the Employment Service, getting certain benefits there, working on black at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57438	Representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57439	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The issue is addressed to the president of the Croatian government. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, you know that the position of Croats in BiH is becoming more and more difficult, which I convinced myself last week when I was there, especially the Croat of Central Bosnia. Most of all, of all the problems I was most impressed by the Croats Varesha, they were on the verge of hunger, they were severe apathy, feeling abandoned. When I asked them what particular I could do for them, they asked me to send them flour, sugar, and oil for Easter so that at least for Easter I could eat cookies. So I would ask you, are you familiar with the problems and position of Croats in central Bosnia, especially the Croatian Varesh, and how do you intend to help them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57440	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57441	Dear Madam MPs, I highly appreciate your engagement and visit to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that this example should be followed by others. As you know, I led the government's delegations two weeks ago in Mostar, met with all the leaders, representatives, presidents of the Croatian parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with everyone, not just the HDZ of BiH, were all representatives of the Croatian parties. At the meeting, they presented their problems, and we proposed that, first of all, when it comes to political status, everything be done to reach a consensus of Croatian parties and not to represent one another, regardless of the percentages they have in the Croatian electoral body, so we appealed to a joint agreement to sit together at the table and agree on the status and on constitutional changes that are on the agenda and will follow. We felt it necessary to do so with what you are talking about, we believe that this is much more important, of course we should worry about both the material position and Croatia from its budget each year is giving away a large number of funds for individual projects. We can't individually, even though we do that, we can't individually help a group of people from a community or from a city because we don't have for it, we want help to be transparent, that it goes through the budget, through budget items, and it finance projects. So if this is about we can organize with the government's help one humanitarian aid, we are absolutely willing to do it and please contact my office so that we can do it, but when it comes to budget assistance, funding through the budget then it must be transparent based on projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57442	Representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll take your word for it. I hope this thing comes true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57444	Representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57445	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I refer the question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic. Mr. Minister, we know that the world's economic practice not only recorded but also scientifically proved that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is a driver and an innovator of every country's economic growth and development. It quickly adapts to new technologies and because of its size and flexibility, the fastest and most painless is being reorientated to new products and the ever growing needs for new and different ones. And our government has seen that, and in its strategy of economic development, it has built small and medium entrepreneurship as an important factor in economic development but qualitative and structural change. In 2005, we already know the results and effects of measures and programmes taken that were aimed at the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I, as well as the citizens of valpos, are interested in the indicators of these measures and programmes taken because they can read the direction of development and structural change of our economy and make it easier for entrepreneurs to direct their projects better. And that is why my question, Mr. Minister, is also focused on this direction, and what is the impact of support for small and medium-sized enterprises in 2004 and 2005, and when will public calls for support for entrepreneurship be announced for 2006? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57446	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57447	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it is true that now there is the start of the third month, and in fact that we are at the beginning of this year when entrepreneurs with the right to expect new aid tenders that we are carrying out through the Government's programme for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I want to say right away that somewhere in the middle of the third month, all the competitions related to the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Encouragement Programme will be announced. Why not before? Because we already mentioned it when I was speaking to the craftsman, we took a comprehensive survey. So, all those who used support and last year we wanted to hear their opinions, suggestions and also working with the employers' association when talking about small and medium entrepreneurship with... So we wanted to see what was changed in these programmes, which is potentially expected by entrepreneurs for whom this programme is from and what observations they have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are with this analysis at the end I have to say and I will repeat once again that really high grades, good grades we have received for the implementation of this programme and in the speed of data processing, so those forms that the entrepreneur should give to and satisfaction with the height and purpose of the support that we provide through this programme. Several possible indicators when we analyse 2005 are important for the prominent and I will repeat the basic thesis, i.e. the basic objectives the government programme wanted to achieve. First of all, we wanted to increase the number of entrepreneurs. I mentioned today that we craftsmen have grown more and more in the year, that this trend is growing enormously this year, but I will remind you that in 2003 in Croatia we had a TA factor that measures the number of newly founded enterprises on 100 employees of Croatia 3.6. Our goal was to get to 10 at the beginning through the Croatian Government programme and we talked about it as one of Ireland's and developed countries did. So we're still off the record, but according to the exact exact exact data somewhere now, we're approaching six TA factors. So in two years, we came from 3.6 to 6. So, obviously, in the number of newly opened not only crafts but also businesses, we were able to motivate people to go to entrepreneurship, to crafts, and the other key goal that we wanted to achieve that we have as much production as I have said and about crafts is evident, so for the first time in Croatia, this is a trend turned around last year, that we have more production crafts and new companies that are dealing with production. This is also seen through the incentives that we have achieved when we talk about new technologies, about therefore investing in machines, in technology, and that's what this program is about to accomplish. We are also going further and this past year shows that in this direction it is also a good move, that we have reduced the number of individual support but increased the amount of individual support. In 2004, it was an average of 40 and a few thousand kunas, in 2005 about 70 thousand kunas and in the opinion and entrepreneurs, and we will continue this year to increase the threshold of individual support so that the entrepreneur can achieve his goal and, in fact, to achieve what it is and the desire to really be his real help in his entrepreneurial enterprise. There is one more important thing to mention here, which is also a programme that the government initially adopted as a strategic programme is strengthening entrepreneurship infrastructure, and that is, above all, a word about entrepreneurship zones, and that is where I want us to invest in funds in these two years, so I will not criticise the last government because it has invested in entrepreneurship zones, but we are with this trend of investment and if we continue to continue these and next year we will come to the amount that we invested in as much as in four years earlier in entrepreneurship zones. The goal is to achieve exactly what we wanted, the more entrepreneurial zones now are in the construction of 230 in Croatia and that in these business areas we have as many entrepreneurs as possible, that we have as much production as possible to achieve and what we want as much exports to the Croatian economy as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57448	Representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57449	I thank Mr. Minister for your response, and we are left only to invite everyone, especially young entrepreneurs, to use the website of the Ministry of the Economy of Small Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57450	Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57451	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. A charity concert was held in Zagreb a few days ago, featuring three godmothers. Your two Ministers Kirin and Minister Primorac were present at the concert. It would not have been strange, nor would it have been controversial if the Ustasha iconography had not been present at the concert and the "Kill of Serbs and Serbs on willows" had not been shouted. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, how do you comment on the presence of your government ministers at such a gathering and the absence of any of their or your reactions to such behaviour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57452	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57453	Madam representative, I don't understand the question. Whether the concert was open or closed, I wasn't following. ... A humanitarian concert? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It seems to me to me for some I've seen for some goals in Bosnia and Herzegovina, exactly what we've been talking about. Now if someone comes out of who knows what reasons with the Ustasha sign on a charity concert then you shouldn't ask those who are from human initiatives, please, Madam MPs I don't know if you mind this conversation but I'll be very open here in answer to this question. I mean, if someone comes to such a concert with a Ustasha sign, I don't know, I haven't been following everything that's been going on around the concert at all, then there's no question about the original initiative of the concert organizer. So their human approach to help one institution or group of people in Bosnia, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But you can ask who came with the Ustasha sign to that concert? And once in Croatia, we should say very clearly: if someone comes with such a sign that the question can be asked is this a deliberate provocation? Yeah. [[That's right. Bravo.]] I ask the question is that normal provocation? Because something that's human by itself, which is good, and I'm sure you have nothing against such humanitarian concerts, is discredited just because someone comes with a partisan cap or a Ustasha sign. So please be nice. ... [[- Insect: Bravo.]] [[Applause.]] No, dear Madam Representative, since you're in now I'm going to answer to you as well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] For me, antifascism is one thing and communism is another. And antifascism, yes, and communism doesn't. Because under Communism they were made...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57454	Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57455	Crimes have been committed under Communism... Mrs. Ingrid Antičević, under Communism, committed crimes... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [["Peace"! Don't you.]] So how can you say it's in Europe? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I'll tell Europe as well as in Croatia. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57456	Okay, well, we can't pollemize now. This is not the way dialogue is planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57457	So, I consider Mrs. Martic to be the idea that she had with the organizer, and you yourself called it a humanitarian concert, that she could not be discredited by the fact that someone came out of these or those initiatives. If he came from one initiative to think it was good, then I, as Prime Minister, say it's bad. And it's inadmissible to manifest today with the Ustasha sign anywhere. I guess she can tell her what she's gonna say. You don't have to tell her. Okay. And secondly, if she came, if she came, the one who came to provoke, then she should be investigated and convicted. Either way, I'm judging both of them. And that has nothing to do with the concert and visiting any concert. [[Good job, good job.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57458	Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57459	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister is not a controversial humanitarian concert at all like a concert. We all support charity concerts no matter what their purpose is. However, it is a controversial event, it is the fact that it happened at that concert and the fact that your ministers of the government who did not find it appropriate to protest it because of such events...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57460	Well, they didn't even see it. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57461	Order! Peace please, please. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57462	Mr. Prime Minister My question was perfectly clear. [[Intruder: Peace please!]] [[Intruder: Please do not fall into my word.]] [[Intruder: Peace!]] It's also perfectly clear from your answer that you've done nothing. Now you say you're judging, but that would have been a good thing if you'd convicted. Therefore, any further comment is excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57463	A representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go. Order! [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57464	Thank you, Mr. President, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, Madam Ministers, Madam Minister and Ministers, I welcome you most. I'm speaking to the defence minister, Mr. Rončević. The reconstruction of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia has recently been a top topic among members of the armed forces, has sparked wider public interest, especially in the environments with a longer military tradition than in Sinj. I note that since 1702 the army has been stationed in Sinj, which is very important to us from an economic and social point of view. The question is whether in the process of reshuffleing the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and starting with all the relevant factors of the military unit will stay in Sinj?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57465	Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57466	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed Mr. Vojarna, in Sinj, counts in smaller military areas, which is about 90 thousand square meters and has no real potential for quality development for the needs of a modern and professional army. At present, the military is used for the needs of a centre for training in the training of handbooks and will surely exist as such while such a form of military deadline is in accordance with the law. The issue of staying military in Sinj and military troops in Sinj will definitely be resolved through a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, which will be held in debate in this House by 30 June this year. We are seeking full professionalisation of the armed forces and we are considering a new concept of organisation of the military deadline, and for the purpose of ensuring human resources and for professional composition, composition of the active reserve and composition of non-classified reserves. In the event of the suspension of the mandatory military deadline through the process of total grouping and deployment of armed forces troops, a decision on the status of the military tower in Sinj will finally be taken. However, what you are interested in in terms of economic and other potential in the plan, the proposal for a long-term plan for the development of the Sinj and the Sinj area and the southern Croatia area will be represented in the deployment of units of institutions and command offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57467	A representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57468	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for his reply. We are aware, and I am personally, and so are my fellow citizens when it comes to reshuffle, when it comes to the survival of the army in Sinj that more, it depends on more factors. But I am glad that all military facilities that are in Sinj and are not small in some way will be in function and winter economy as well as social needs. In that direction, I welcome your statements, and the statements of the entire state summit in the last few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57469	Representative Ivan Drmić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57470	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, gentlemen of the government. I would ask one question to Minister Rončević, and in connection with the real estate management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is used by the Ministry of Defence or the Croatian Army's troops. I wonder if such a plan exists at all and whether it is a tendency to redeploy these military facilities for civil purposes where it is needed and where the structures of local authorities require and require the Ministry of Defence, and also to ensure, as I say, military bases where the military would have the possibility to carry out its normal, regular activities, which at the same time would not endanger the development of the economy and the development of local infrastructure, and we can also say the development of civil society. So my question is whether there is one such plan, and whether it is a tendency for the Croatian military to get out of cities which has not been the case so far in the former system, because it was a military-police state, and to provide and build military bases that would be outside the cities, to ensure the needs of the military, meaning they wouldn't mind normal civil life.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57471	Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57472	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for asking the question. Teacherly to the answer of the esteemed colleague Bitunjc. There is a plan, it is a long-term plan for the development of the Croatian Armed Forces. For the sake of illustration, Croatian Armed Forces currently use 344 objects. Although, if the long-term development plan is supported by parliamentary representatives and accepted in this House, the Armed Forces will retain the use of about 50 users with a tendency to extract from cities and organise training and other activities on polygons and in smaller areas where it is easier to organise. The government also prepares a special Law on the closure and re-use of military properties which are inoperable with the tendency to respect both national, county and local self-government programmes in the part of meeting the needs of education, health care, social care and others, and the rest of normal and state institutions, other state institutions, and the rest would be given for the purpose of the economy in a way that is primarily given in respect of concessions, then leases, and only in those smaller and not attractive locations and through sales. The answer to your question regarding your constituency. That's probably the City of Djakovo and the Gases. Gases developed as a military polygon, and we declared the military in Đakova unspective because it has no ability to develop its characteristics in terms of needs according to NATO standards, so if there are certain needs and quality programs of local self-government or county, I am convinced that the government will perceive or assist them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57473	Representative Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57474	I've received an answer to my knowledge, and I have to admit that the current situation and over the past few years that seems to me to be working without a plan, that it's done quite a bit of a song. We are witnessing there in Slavonia, especially that the army is in cities. I can also point out the example of Đakov you listed, where he has a plan to build a business zone. However, it is impossible to do so while the military is within the city. Also, in Osijek even during the defence minister Šuška military offices are committed to the use of students. It's arranged for students, but after that, the big money was installed in the White Manastir military that was preparing for military acceptance. However, today this barracks stands empty regardless of the large funds spent. At the same time, a polygon of Gases spread over several hundred acres of land. He doesn't invest in it. He's not getting ready. I think that with very little resources, it could be re-purposed to serve the purpose, and that most of the military in the Slavonia area is also from the City of Požega where there is also a large complex near the city center which I think is unacceptable in one normal country, that it cannot exist in such a way, because it also blocks the development of the economy and all other needs that citizens have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57475	Thank you. Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57476	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to ask my question to the Minister of Agriculture, but since he's not here, here's the Secretary of State. After this affair that appeared around the so-called crazy cow, many claims appeared in the paper, so I would read some. And that's that in Slavonia there's agro mafia, that the chain of corruption goes from the top of the government and that 50 to 60% of the meat on our market is out of control. You announced a decisive action in the fight against the agro mafia, and among other things, you said that you would calculate, that you would examine cattle farmers, the meat of processors, slaughterhouses, local veterinarians and veterinary inspections. But I hope this whole action doesn't come down to one buyer and one veterinarian. However, I would ask you another question. All our peasants who have entered the VAT system are struggling to sell their products in any way whether it's cattle, whether it's other crop cultures or not, and I don't know what else. Because no one wants to buy it from them on paper and I know a gentleman who has 318 heroes. He can't sell any Junes on paper, only on black. I'm curious to know how you're going to help these people start working by law, i.e. That those of them should buy the goods by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57477	Secretary of State Herman Sušnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57478	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, here's a few things you said. I'm sure there's a lot of problems around the black market. The teams formed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Economy are on the ground. They are going around the field and surely they will not only remain in the initial words or initial effects, but they will go very rigorously and very resolutely to the end to see what is happening on that market and how best-quality is solved. Surely, farmers in the VAT system mean when they have to sell everything legally and display certain problems. The government of the Republic of Croatia and this ministry will support the situation on the market with certain measures. There are a lot of measures to be taken. I will only mention what will now be in the government's session about this stabilisation of the Peradar industry market that has been burdened and suffered certain losses by the outbreak of bird flu, where they are precisely calculated which are financial indicators and the government will take certain measures that will be supported and with financial resources to stabilise the poultry market. The situation on the market of other agricultural products and with all possible measures to be taken will also be monitored. I think this situation will fully improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57479	Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57480	I'm not happy with the answer, because you haven't told me at all how you're going to protect these people who regularly pay VAT and who want to do legal business. It is fortunate that when we passed the Law on Public Gathering that we did not bring this law and limit it to cattle, then probably this green cake that is in front of us will come and protest with cattle.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57481	Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57482	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti, Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Last year, more precisely in August 2005, a loan advance was signed for the project of integration, trade and transport of the port of Ploče with the World Bank, and for the production of project documentation and other preparatory works that follow, and related to important investments in the port of Ploče, here I primarily think of two terminals, a terminal, a container terminal and a terminal for scattered burdens that really mean a lot for the development of the port "Ploca", and therefore the growth of the economy in the southernmost county. I would like to stress that the port of Ploce is an extremely important economic entity in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and beyond, and that it is true that everything that happens next to the port of interest for the entire public, so the public is actually interested in the ministry's position regarding the alleged views of the World Bank on the privilege of foreign investors to work in the port of Ploče. So it has already appeared in the media, already on several occasions the World Bank's alleged position that foreign investors will be privileged. I personally find such an attitude totally unacceptable, and I also trust you and the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But here, because of the public's interest because it's been going through the media for some time now, I want to hear a clear view, your personal opinion, of the Ministry and the Government on this matter, about these investments that are truly of great importance to the Port of Ploce and for the City of Ploce and for our county itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57483	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57484	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, there's no way the World Bank can talk about conditioning anything. She only has one condition, and that is that the project is economically profitable and that he will be able to invest himself, so that he will be able to return alone. The World Bank consultants said the "Ploche" port project is profitable and in this sense the World Bank will also finance the project. So there are no other conditions, nor are any other conditions set by the World Bank. The position of the ministry is otherwise, and that's what we told the World Bank, that the main concession, which is authorised by the Port of Ploce, will also apply to new terminals that will be built at the port of Ploce. Therefore, the matter is quite clear. The thing's completely clean. What is expected of the port of Ploce is that it will install the two terminals, a decommissioning terminal and a container terminal, and the investment will be around 70m euros that the Ploce port will be built into a counterstructure on the two terminals of another 60m euros. By the way, it's one of the great projects, one of the government's development projects relating to the construction of a terminal at the port of Ploche. Since the port "Ploche" along the port "Rijeka", our most important freight port, and this port in the past few years has recorded an extraordinary increase in traffic, and this perspective is also in the future. In that sense, we have been preparing together and preparing clearly with the World Bank this investment that we are talking about here today. Clearly, without any conditions of the World Bank. I can only finally say that the preparations are ongoing, that the project documentation is being done and we expect works at the port of "Ploce", the beginning of works at the port of "Ploce" on these two terminals somewhere early next, so in 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57485	Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57486	I thank you, Mr. Minister. You gave an exhaustive answer, making it more relevant to the question of the primary concession, which is also of great importance for the Port of Ploche. And once again to point out that the Port of "Ploche" in the Homeland War also meant a factor in social, social security, that it survived in such a difficult time without being fired. In this sense, this investment will be very good for development, overall economic development and ports and cities and counties and only any Croatian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57487	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57488	Your Honor, Mr. President, the question is for the Prime Minister. Sir, Mr. Prime Minister, by the government's decision of the Republic of Croatia, the "Salonite" factory in Vranjica near Split is allowed to re-use asbestos as raw materials. That puts about 200 thousand people directly at risk in an 11km zone around the Salonite area, which is a world-renowned zone of contamination from carcinogenic poison, not to mention people who work at the Salonite. My question is, although Minister Ljubicic said he did not feel responsible in this case, the question is how could you make such a decision in the government, such a reckless, scandalous decision. Whether it's a mere coincidence, whether it's incompetence or protection of some interest groups in the government and around the government and interests that are certainly not in favour of the health of citizens or those working there. I'm asking you this specifically as a Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57489	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57490	Like a splinter who loves Vranjic, like you do, I hope. ... Vranjic, Kaštela, Solin, it was, it was, it was the California of Croatia and Dalmatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And it was just destroyed by communist procedures and by creating such factories that destroyed health, destroyed the environment, because you can't even bathe. I dream of a diet that goes to the north port there on Stice, Marine you know where it is, and we couldn't take a bath. There's alive, there's everything. So don't dive crocodile tears now. When we came, thank God, at a time of democracy and we can calmly say that it was harmful, that some giants were created who absolutely destroyed the environment and human health, human health, because all those who breathe in there are sick. And this government also takes care of employees, so workers who on the one hand asked not to lose their jobs, because they have to feed their children and their family, and they expect social sensitivity from your ranks. And on the other hand, we need to coordinate environmental protection. These two principles that we want workers to finish this job as soon as possible and to protect the environment, these two principles will be respected by this government, even in the case of Vranjica residents.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57491	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57492	Mr. Prime Minister, you've tried to mix up ideological moments here with a fundamental question. Are there any interests that are contrary to the interests of the citizens with this decision? Look what's absurd. Your government approved the Salonite factory to continue production of asbestos products even though it remained on the road to ban the traffic and use of asbestos products. Do you know who's producing it, and he knows it can't be placed on the market? It's just the drug mob.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57493	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57494	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have a question for Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. On 2 February this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation on the level of water contribution. This regulation has also caused concern and bitterness among many of our entrepreneurs and citizens. I also agree with all those who claim that this Regulation is a blow to entrepreneurship, the economy, investment and our small families who are about to resolve their housing issue. What exactly does this regulation bring? It makes a commitment to pay for an enormously high water contribution, and what does that mean in numbers for our entrepreneurs and family? That means, for example. in zone B, which includes my Međimurje County, that for business premises other than production facilities, if it is an average drive, therefore by the cubic meter of which the price is 60 kuna, the entrepreneur will have to pay 300 thousand kuna of the water contribution. In Zagreb, it would have to pay 500 thousand kuna, amounting to almost 10% of the total investment. For production plants in the B zone, an entrepreneur for the same so-called production hall should give an average of 80 thousand kuna for water contribution, while in the City of Zagreb there is 125 thousand kuna. For residential buildings, for permanent housing, means for houses and the like. For a house of an average size of about a thousand meters cubic meters in B zone, our people would have to give 40 thousand kuna, and in the City of Zagreb, 60 thousand kuna, that is the price, for example. one carpentry on that same house. So I ask if the government will reconsider its decision and adapt it to the situation on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57495	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57496	Mr. Representative, I have already answered the question of one, one earlier question of the representatives who answered the reasons, because on the one hand, as well as in Međimurje County, what representatives from Međimurje County, from Bjelovar-Bilogorska, from Brod-Posaviska, Osijek-Baranja, etc. They rightly asked the government after the flood and the damage the floods caused, to react. We have come up with a proposal that is for the first time in Croatia, which is that the military, that the Ministry of Defence helps to clear the canals and it is doing so and will continue to do so, because there is a devastation of the canals I have said for 15 to 25 years that is seen by the trees that are... so it can be calculated how long it has not intervened in the channels. Since we have inherited the principle of Croatian waters, that Croatian waters only care for the first and second groups of channels, first and second types, and I repeat the third and fourth ones to the public, local self-government and privates should be concerned. There was no means and it comes up because of the blockage of the canal until the flood. In order to ensure the resources for a system that should operate in flood protection, this Regulation has been followed. However, since I am, I was the first to ask Minister Cobankovic to consider well with the expert team whether everything is expensive when a bonebenefite analysis is made we should go into that regulation or not and now I give my word that once again after a month or two days, so no longer than two months, we will consider and evaluate the situation and, if necessary, change this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57497	Representative Zeljko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57498	Thank you. I'm not happy with the answer. He would be pleased if the prime minister responded that at the first next cabinet session, he would then be satisfied. During this time, I have a concern that there will be a blockade of investment and investment in our economy, especially as regards the economy. Let me read just one sentence from the reaction in our one week in Međimurje, which came out this week, which is directed right to the government, by a young family. What message does this regulation of government send to us young academic citizens of this country? We read between the lines: Children gather your suitcases while you are young and not too late. I hope, therefore, that this regulation will be changed as soon as possible and that such messages in the future will be as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57499	Representative Ivo Josipovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57500	Thank you, Mr. President. My question concerns universities, but the question is not intended for the Minister of Science, but for the Minister of the Interior. Why? During this flood of discussions on alleged refugees, Kosovoers and similar ones, which in fact serve mainly to mask or cover up the real problems this society has and which are actually very often unfoundedly affecting many of our citizens, there has been one piece of information that the university is a refuge and not only has a historical dimension but they are reportedly active today and are conducting discrimination on a national basis, so they are committing serious crimes against the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. My question to the Minister of the Interior is: Has the police been obliged under the Criminal Procedure Act, by official duty, to investigate whether she has heard, whether she has made an informed conversation with a person who is otherwise the president of a parliamentary party to check her allegations and whether, if not already, she will take criminal action, so she will file a criminal complaint against those employees of the university who discriminate against the citizens or against those who are in the public opinion and information which, if incorrectly, represent a rude intrusion and attack against the university and university freedoms in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57501	Minister Ivica Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57502	I condemn, on behalf of the Government, the falsification and bringing any name in the context of a particular publication through the media without verified information, because that is what damage is done, and so are all of us who are at the top of the policy and you who are in other parties, that it is the easiest to discredit anyone so that you get information about this or that. What is very important, the police will act at all those times where someone has violated the law, meaning the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia and will perform at that time. We are not here to evaluate historical, moral or ethical rights, we leave it to the court of the public, but we call on all citizens, all well-intentioned citizens if they have information about people who have committed certain crimes in recent history, because, as we know, the crime doesn't get old, justice is slow, but it's available, that these reports and that these cases will be dealt with by name. What I'm leaving behind, I'm leaving it to all of us to think about who and what's going through the media, because often we all get to the front pages of the newspaper, and we don't know what the real cause is. I can only say on my behalf and at the Ministry of the Interior, we are doing all we've been published to investigate in another context, to see if it's related to certain criminal acts in the past and for which maybe tails are being dragged, and such as unsolved murders. And only in this context will we observe all the participants, and we leave morality and ethics to the Croatian public. What I can say is, there are legal institutions, here is the Minister of Justice, who allows every citizen to defend himself before the court and, in the context of the damage done to him by reputation, can seek it in court and elect those who have placed such information in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57503	Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57504	Well, I'm partly just satisfied for a reason because I share these points of view about the inaccessibility and discredition of individuals. However, we see new, dangerous things happening. To disturb the public with claims that some professors at universities treat members of one nationality in one way and others in another. I think it's also very dangerous thesis that have its legal dimension, so my question was whether it was already taken against it and whether it would be taken, and you didn't answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57505	Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57506	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. After the Government generously and self-absorbed the lion's share of debt to the state of the company "Kamen Ingrad" which I personally consider not so bad, but should be done according to clear criteria in other dams and other companies that come into difficulty. Its owner, Mr. Rabbit, is to avoid the rest of his debts to the state overnight by project "Hurry" founded as many as two new companies. We of the SDP Club have pointed out that they need security mechanisms to be able to start new companies regardless of the speed of red tape. Now, I'm asking you, given the warnings that came from the SDP Club, will you reintroduce legal mechanisms to prevent such entrepreneurs from trying to play the credentials? Are you going to introduce legal protection mechanisms or are you going to end up with the goal of keeping such entrepreneurs alive on the Croatian market?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57507	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57508	Well, I'm sorry that we have to discuss this matter again in this way because everything here is said both in the Parliament and in the public and it's known. But maybe that Latin saying was right, too, and she said that "he rehearsed the sixth mother studiorum." Well, then we'll do it again. It was not just about "The Stone of Ingrad" but about a number of other companies. There are about 200 of them in Croatia. Secondly, it was that we were thinking about how, directly answering your question, how to protect the believer. No, we can't, we don't, because we think it would be one shot into thin air to legally prohibit someone who owes a state or anyone else from opening another company. Why is that shot empty? So you and I both know that he's gonna open up through his sister, through his brother, through some family member, and then what? So I think we need to find other mechanisms. So we can't use the law to ban him and ask him for it even though there's a minister of finance and we've been having long debates about it and in the government how to prevent messy payments to open a new firm and start working if he's in debt here and he didn't pay me how many millions. I don't think that's a solution because he has a number of other ways to open a company through another company and he owns that company but he's not the formal owner of the company. We need to strengthen other mechanisms of control, protection of the credentials. And one of these is what we thought, absolutely, is that one of these moves and what we've brought into the executive law, is to transfer to public notebooks from courts and a number of other things that we can do together. But this would be a surefire in the blank.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57509	Representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57510	I must say, I am not pleased, Mr. Prime Minister, with your answer. I welcome when the government is trying to save all jobs, whether yours or yours, previous and any future. And that's a good move. However, the fact that protection has existed so far and should, in my deep conviction, make it impossible and difficult for those entrepreneurs who are trying to play their believers in every way to be in the economy. No matter whether it's through the middleman or in any other way. I expect the Government to propose new protection mechanisms to the Croatian Parliament in a very short time. After all, you said you were trying to, but it needs to be more effective because time goes by, we have a lot of cases where owners start new companies without a problem. It's not just a review of "Hurry." The "quick" should be to make it possible in any way for entrepreneurs to quickly open companies. However, protection from entrepreneurs who are based on the edge of the law or simply do not operate under the law needs protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57511	Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57512	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer the issue to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, and that reads it. Recently, ISPA projects have been signed in Vinkovci. Can you explain the importance of these projects to us?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57513	Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57514	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. ISPA programme is one of the 3 pre-accession European Union programmes on which Croatia has acquired the right to obtain candidate status. ISPA is a programme aimed at financing infrastructure projects in the field of environmental protection and transport, i.e. transport. For the period 2005/2006. 60m euros were allocated to Croatia under the programme, and we signed 2 funding memos in Vinkovci on 30 January this year. So 2 concrete projects from ISPA, which means actually starting concrete use of pre-accession aid. One is a programme for water and waste water in Karlovac for which 22 and a half million euros of grants are granted from ISPA, which is used for the development of supply, water supply systems, waste water treatment, environmental protection, increased efficiency of local utility companies, etc. The second is the project to rehabilitate the railway line at Vinkovci-Tovarnik, the state border. A 33km-long stock reconstruction to invest 28.8m euros of grants from ISPA. This will certainly contribute to increasing, improving the quality of transport, as well as transport safety, increasing the speed of transport on that stock, setting up new signalling and such. The benefits of these programs are multiple. In addition to disbursing the state budget and the budget of local administration and self-government, this is also a direct investment of the European Union in infrastructure projects in the construction and renewal of these projects, which will certainly contribute to the quality of life, i.e. the increased standard of living of citizens in these areas. It should certainly be pointed out that it is about strong cooperation between the state administration and the local administration and the self-government that we have succeeded in these... prepare in an extremely short, I would say record time because it took less than a year which is much better than the average of any candidate country so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be said that the basis of this effectiveness in the implementation of these projects will certainly assess our ability and allocate further funds under pre-accession programmes, so the better we do, and so far we have shown that we are really doing well at all levels, so Croatia will be able to get out more grants. And here I would finally say that the first concrete effects are also felt because last week, at the expense of a Croatian bank that the Croatian government opened for this purpose, the first 5m euros from pre-accession assistance to Croatia were paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57515	Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57516	Thank you. The reconstruction and modernisation of this section of the railway from Vinkovec to the border will, in any case, improve and speed up and revive Vinkovci railway station, until recently the largest in these areas, and certainly the border stations of Tovarnik. This part of the programme you mentioned for Karlovac is a contribution to water management, a significant contribution to water management in the part of water protection against pollution and I am satisfied with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57517	Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57518	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister. My question is intended for the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, and it concerns media inscriptions as well as the story that most of the Croatian military facilities will be abandoned and abandoned for some economic purposes. Could we, as parliamentary representatives of Mr. Minister and the Croatian public, know more precisely what properties are involved, what deadlines and how this project is planned, and I am particularly interested in the viritative military and facilities in the area of Virovitica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57519	Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57520	Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative not only can you but you, as parliamentary representatives, will make a final decision on this because the whole project is going through a long-term plan for the development of the armed forces and through a new bill that will soon come into these parliamentary benches, it is the law on closure and re-use of military properties. Croatia has decided to use modern but efficient armed forces, which implies a rational reduction in human resources, but also in terms of the facilities that we will use. I said in response to the previous question of similar content that currently Croatian armed forces are using 344 facilities, and that in the final restructuring process they will be aware of the use of about 50 military facilities. The identity of the new law is the rational use of these properties which are state-owned and which are governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the law. The desire is to meet the objective needs of other authorities of the state administration, justified national projects and projects of the county and local self-government in meeting the needs of health, education, higher education, social care and others. Part of these facilities will also be offered for the purpose of entrepreneurial activities, means economic use in such a way as to give in long-term lease concessions, and only in those locations and those properties where no competitive or lease interest is objectively expected would be given in sales. The purpose of the objectives is to create 60% of the financial resources achieved into a specific budget fund that would be strictly intended for the purposes of modernising and equipping Croatian armed forces and for the purpose of improving the quality of life of active military personnel who are in rotation. Nothing will happen alone if we talk about the dynamics of the implementation of this idea long-term development plan for the 2006-2015 period, we would also be working on three-year closure and re-use plans because approximately for the closure and restructuring and the new internal organisation of Croatian armed forces need between 1 and 3 years. As far as military Virovitica is concerned, it is recognised in the long-term development plan as inoperable since there is no possibility of expanding the security of content but is now passing through the military public road which immediately places it in a circle of unspective properties and if there is a need and quality programmes by both the county and the town of Virovitica, as well as the previous representative, I am convinced that the Government will recognise the quality of this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57521	Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57522	I am pleased with your response, Mr. Minister, and I hope that the Virovitica military will certainly be for the purpose of further progress in the economy, and that a certain military unit will find its place in the polygon... Thank you very much for the specific answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57523	Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57524	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57525	Peace out there. Peace be upon you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57526	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Farmers are particularly complaining about the government's attitude towards domestic agricultural production, especially when we are already on the verge of entering the European Union. I'll try to say it on a few examples. The payment of incentives in agriculture is non-transparent, actually people say that if they have more production then they can't even figure out which incentives they are related to, and later and more months later. That's how they are, for example. Incentives for this pig and hernada paid mostly for the first half of 2005. No incentives were paid for the autumn seed, for the fruit material, for the lift of the plantation. Incentive users do not know in advance the level of incentives for their production even though it is established by the Encouragement Act. So, for example. The legally established incentive for this 800 kuna hero in 2005 is therefore paid for that first term at an amount of 560 kuna or only 70% of the established amount. So I ask you, Mr. President, when do you intend to introduce order in the payment of government obligations, especially those stemming from the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57527	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57528	Madam representative, the answer will be very brief. And I, everything, all the incentives will be paid. And finally, Mr. President, I have good news. We have just received news that the UK has decided to abolish more for Croatian citizens. The decision will enter into force on 22 March as it takes three weeks to implement that decision. I believe this is also the result of the Croatian government's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57529	Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57530	Mr. President, farmers will be very pleased with the suspension of the visa because they travel daily to the UK and will certainly receive incentives by the end of 2006 for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57531	Thank you very much. The government has given answers to all parliamentary questions. I'm interrupting the session now. Continuation is at 3:00. Before we continue to work, allow us to comply with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Cacci, to make an oath. The oath is made in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and then the representative, after being called up, says, "I swear." I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order. That I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Representative Chachia, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57536	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57537	Thank you. ... Congratulations to the representative and I wish him success in the conduct of his honorable and responsible representative of duty. [[Applause.]] The quorum still doesn't have a debate on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but we're going to have that debate and we'll vote tomorrow then. - Reports from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Mr. Chairman of the Mandatory Commission, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57539	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So, first we have a report on the start of the stay of MP Ivica Mastruka's parliamentary mandate and the start of the replacement mandate of Deputy Representative Zeljko Kurtov. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 25th session held on 1 March 2006 discussed the written request of Dr Ivica Mastruk's representative from 22 February 2006 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia to enter into force on 1 March 2006 was appointed to the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to Romania, and that pursuant to Article 9. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate in a standstill. The commission found that Dr. Ivica Mastruko on 30 August 2005 began acting as a candidate for the Croatian People's Party in the 9th Election Unit and that the Croatian People's Party was in accordance with Article 12(1). Mr. Zeljko Kurtov, acting as deputy representative in that constituency, has begun to act as a representative. The Commission has established that the conditions laid down by law for the commencement of Dr Ivica Mastruk's parliamentary mandate as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Zeljko Kurtov. Accordingly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of the term of office of MPs and to start acting as deputy deputies. On March 1st, 2006, it begins the rest of the parliamentary mandate of Dr. Ivica Mastruk's representative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 1 March 2006 began to act as Deputy Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57540	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the quorum is acquired. Let's move on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57541	Next we have a report on the request for the authorisation of the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Zlatko Korajevic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 24 January 2006 discussed the notice of the County Court in Varazdin from 26 October 2005 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that an investigative request was filed by the court against Zlatko Koračević, a representative in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the damagees as prosecutors, "Autotransport Stjepan Radić d.o.o." For the purposes of the offences referred to in Article 224(4) in conjunction with paragraph 1 of Article 293(2) in respect of paragraph 1 and Article 337(4) in respect of paragraph 1. Penalty law. How Mr Koračević is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term. The decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that the injured party as a prosecutor had filed an investigational request to the County Court's investigation department in Varazdin. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The County Court in Varazdin informed the Croatian Parliament of the need to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Zlatko Korajevic. Accordingly, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision-making. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Zlatko Koračević in Case No 135/5-6 following the investigative request as a prosecutor for the offences referred to in Article 224(4), Article 293(2) and Article 337(4) in conjunction with paragraph 1. Penalty law. Explanation. The Commission took the principle that in the case of a request to initiate criminal proceedings, when the damageor takes over the criminal drive from the State's attorney's office which gave up his prosecution, the authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings is denied. In the event that the state's attorney gives up his prosecution, he is presumed to have estimated that the act does not exist, that it is of little importance and that it does not offend public morality because otherwise, he would continue the prosecution. The Commission's position is not to approve the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs because the proceedings can be initiated after the end of Mr Zlatko Koracevic's term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. The Institute of Immunity Law has been established in order to protect the dignity of the agent's duties, not in order to protect the representative as an individual. And the conduct of criminal proceedings as well as any actions that should be taken in connection with this could make it impossible for a representative to act as a regular representative and influence the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57542	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57543	The following is the report on the request to authorise the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Zdenko Antesic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 24 January 2006 discussed the notice of the County Court in Rijeka of 2 November 2005 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that an investigation was filed against Zdenko Antesic, a representative in Croatia at the request of the injured as prosecutor of St. Andrija from Rab represented by a law firm in Zagreb for the offence against official duty by abuse of office and authority referred to in Article 337(1), (3) and (4) Penalty law. How Mr Antešić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 23 The Rules of Procedure shall have the immunity until the end of its parliamentary term of office of a decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that the damage as a prosecutor had filed a request for an investigation into the County Court's investigation department in Rijeka. Article 23(2) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The County Court in Rijeka informed the Croatian Parliament of the need to grant authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Zdenko Antesic. The mandate-immunity committee shall, after the debate has been held, unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the decision-making, so the authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Zdenko Antesic at the investigative request of the accused as prosecutor for the criminal offence referred to in Article 337(1), (3) and (4) shall be denied. Penalty law. Explanation. The Commission has taken the principle that in the case of a request to initiate criminal proceedings, when the damageor takes over the prosecution from the State Attorney's Office which gave up the prosecution, the authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings is denied. In the event that the state's attorney gives up on prosecution, it is assumed that the act does not exist, that it is of little importance and that it does not offend public morality because it would otherwise continue the prosecution. The Commission's position is not to approve the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs because the procedure can also be initiated after the term of office has expired, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. The Institute of Immunity Law has been established in order to protect the dignity of the agent's duties, but not in order to protect MPs as an individual in the conduct of criminal proceedings, as well as any actions that should be taken in connection with this. It could make it impossible for a representative to act as a regular representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57544	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57545	Next report on the request for authorisation of the initiation of the criminal proceedings against Slavko Linić of the Croatian Parliament MPs. Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament at the 21st session held on 24 January 2006 discussed the notice of the Bar Association of Budin and Penic of Zagreb as the authority of Mr Dari Vukić, based on a request from the Municipal Court in Rijeka, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament of the private suit brought against MP Slavko Linic for the crime of slander referred to in Article 200(1) and (2). The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. How Mr Slavko Linić is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term. The decision approving the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MPs may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 23(2), as stated above. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the private prosecutor, based on the request of the Municipal Court in Rijeka, requested approval to initiate the criminal proceedings under a private suit against MP Slavko Linic. The mandate-immunity committee shall, after the debate has been held, unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament that the decision be taken during the term of the parliamentary term of office be denied the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Representative Slavko Linic for a criminal offence against honor and reputation committed by the slander referred to in Articles 200(1) and 2. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia. Explanation. The Commission took the principle of not taking the view that the application for the initiation of criminal proceedings for the offences of slanders and insults to MPs is not apologising and that no criminal proceedings against Slavko Linic are granted for the offences of slander and insults because the proceedings can be carried out after the end of Mr Linic's term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. The commission's position is to establish the Institute of Immunity in order to protect the dignity of the parliamentary duties, not in order to protect the MPs as... a the conduct of criminal proceedings, as well as any actions that should be taken in connection with this, may make it impossible for a representative to act on a regular basis and affect the work of the Croatian Parliament. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57546	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much. We'll vote. ... No, it doesn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to hold MP Ivica Mastruk's mandate and the launch of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Zeljko Kurtov. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the decision to open the term of office of MPs and the start of acting as deputy deputies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The decision made by 95 votes in favour and one abstention. So on March 1st, the parliamentary duty begins to be handled by Deputy Representative Mr. Zeljko Kurtov. Congratulations. He's already taken his oath. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57552	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 26th session held on 23 March 2006 the submission of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that a criminal application was filed against Mr Jena Adam of MPs in the Croatian Parliament on suspicion that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority as set out in Article 337(1) and (4). Penalty law. How Mr. Jene Adam is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term of office, a decision approving the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the County State Attorney's Office have requested approval to initiate criminal proceedings against Parliament's representative, Jenna Adam. Following the debate, the mandate-immunity committee shall unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision establishing that there are no constitutional and legal reasons set out in Article 75(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the application of the Institute of Representative Immunities and, within the meaning of Article 75(3), of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the application of the Institute of Representative Immunities. The Constitution shall authorise the initiation of criminal proceedings against the representative of Jenna Adam at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence against the position and authority referred to in Article 337(1) and (4). Penalty law. Explanation. The Commission has decided to propose to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against representatives of Jenna Adam at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence of abuse of office and authority because that act does not fall under criminal responsibility for which the representative is subject to the provisions of Article 75(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia cannot take away immunity, but it is a criminal offence for which the commission has taken the view that it will propose the abolition of immunity to the representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57553	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57554	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How did this awkward case happen? Independent representatives in our Parliament receive 250,000 kuna a year. And how do they spend that money? Suit yourself. Who's controlling it? No one. The Hungarian community has filed criminal charges, the State's Attorney's office has initiated proceedings and is now seeking to remove immunity. What are we gonna do? We have a proposal from the Committee. We'll remove the immunity. What would have happened if it hadn't been for this criminal application? And how do they spend money on the independent representatives of this House who do not come from the Hungarian community, so that they may check their representatives? Some of them were made independent so that they entered this Assembly on the list of parties. And then they stepped out of those parties, declared themselves independent. And now they get $250,000 a year, and there's no one to control them. There's no one to control them. How did this problem come about? It came about because our committees on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and then the Committee on Law which confirmed it interpreted that the party is equal to the representative, or that the representative is equal to the party. And that the right that belongs to the parties belongs to the MPs. And here's where it got us. We have warned countless times in this House that such a solution is not good. If independent representatives have the need for additional resources for their work, it must be regulated by amendments to the Law on Rights and the responsibilities of MPs. And what is that need, what is that need, and how objectively can it be? It certainly can't be $250,000 a year because it's too much money. There are no independent representatives in this Croatian Parliament who actually do not support the government. They're not independent. They're addicted to these 250,000 kunas. They depend on the will of the parliamentary majority to interpret the regulation. So if they interpret the regulation that they don't have the right to $250,000 a year, then they're going to lose those, without that money, and they don't really get it. What happens to a colleague of Jenna Adam but also what happens to the other MPs, so the opening of suspicion, the possibility of suspicion of corruption is not good. It's not good for the reputation of this House, it's not good for the reputation of MPs. It doesn't make a nice picture of politicians and politics at all. We have called on the government countless times, so let's settle this issue differently. We don't mind that someone who, as an independent representative, represents the interests of the citizens who chose him. He's getting some money for increased costs. You can't get them on your own account, on your own private account. He can't. Because if that happens, then we open the way for corruption. Then we opened the way to overstep power as already incriminated. Then we opened the way to illegality. The government has kept refusing to deal with this problem. And yesterday when we talked about corruption, we tried to say something about political corruption as the worst form of corruption. People are rightly the most sensitive to him. Why? Because they especially ask the elected politicians to be immaculate. They want to work completely transparently. That's why they chose them. They won't have any doubts about elected politicians. And that's where the possibility of that suspicion opens up to a big door. At the big door. I'd like from the co-legislative solidarity to give a colleague of Jena Adam to be able to justify himself in court. I'd love to. But the fact that we here today have to take off our colleagues' immunity for this kind of work, and we don't want to solve the problem, we don't want to, puts all of us before one question how do we do it? And I'm sorry when we talked about corruption yesterday we talked about political corruption and we called the government. Come on, you're giving a plan, an action plan, or whatever it's called, the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Let's show in action that you really want to root out that corruption. Come on, now I'm calling the government again. Prepare to amend and supplement the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Political Representatives. Solve this issue for independent MPs in a logical way, in a way that will not irritate the citizens because this irritates them. You can think and talk about whatever you want. This irritates the citizens. They take this as an insult, a personal insult. A million kunas per term is not a small amount of money. They see this as an eclectic example of politicians' corruption. And today I call on the government again and again to prepare for the amendments and additions of this Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Politicians, so you don't need more than 14 days. You don't have to. Send it to emergency procedures. Let's get this question off the agenda. If the government wants to show that she cares. If you don't, if you don't do it, you show that you care about something else, which is that you buy votes in this House with 250,000 kuna a year. So don't let yourself be blackmailed like that. She's unnecessary, she's harmful. She's not only hurting the government, it's not only hurting this Parliament. She's hurting the whole country. So let's take advantage of this unpleasant cause of colleague Jenna Adam to which we will remove immunity, use this unpleasant occasion to solve a bigger problem than the immunity of one MP, to remove corruption through the parliamentary action from this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57555	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57556	Well, it's an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague who literally said that minority representatives can spend as much money as they want. On the contrary, and we're just about as insecure as you said the situation because they can't spend the money that we're talking about any way they want. On the contrary, they must also explain it to the competent board of this House even the annual data, the spending report and, in the sense that we are talking about representatives of national minorities in this regard, even if it is strictly a dedicated cost covering their costs on the ground and all those costs they have as parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57557	Replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57558	Dear fellow Stazic, one million kuna per term, each MP, you million kuna, means a minority representative or an independent representative. Just as you spend money working with voters in your party, so we spend money working with voters on the ground. Unlike when each party's representative represents a particular constituency or constituency, the electoral unit of the minority representative is Croatia as a whole. And he travels all over Croatia, and he really needs the funds. Don't waste them untransparently. On the contrary, more transparent than you spend. The party shall submit a report only to the Committee, unlike the independent representatives who first submit the review report according to strictly prescribed forms. After the signature of the audit, such a report shall go to the committee which accepts it or does not accept it. There's a fight in the party. There's a fight in the minority. The dissatisfaction that funds have not just been allocated to non-transparently designated users results in this. And I don't think we're judging Jene and we're not talking about non-transparent spending until the court tells us its rightful word. I believe he will respond that the funds have been spent, and we are not taking off some immunity for the first time because it is suspected of a certain misdemeanour or a certain offense or not to say something worse. So that's what happened to Jene, too, but I said, there are fights everywhere, and even in minorities, and let's not talk about intransparency because really if there is one, there's one somewhere else, and all that review and the court will eventually judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57559	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57560	Honorable colleague Chuhnil, if we start with your logic, a million kunas you and a million kunas I as an independent agent. Then we're on the wrong track. Why? Because a million kunas for a party representative does not win, these million kunas do not get it but they go to the party's expense and are not used to finance the work of that representative, but are used for the overall work of the party. Therefore, it is not the same. So it's not the same. On the other hand, the parties are legal persons. They have financial control. An independent representative has no such obligation. There's just no such obligation. Look, if there were any, there wouldn't be a case with a colleague of Jenna Adam. Well, just because he could spend money the way the Hungarian community told him he was spending was a problem. There's been a problem. Therefore, a party representative, I have already explained this once by simply an accounting unit. The funds are allocated by mandate, not by a representative with a name and a last name, but by mandate. The party actually receives money by the number of votes won by Dont's method translated into mandates. It is a way of calculating money for the parties and cannot be equated with the right of MPs per million kuna per term. Because otherwise with such interpretation, we open up the possibility of not claiming that corruption exists, but we are opening up the possibility of corrupting, and we have already opened our suspicions of corrupt action.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57561	Second replica, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57562	Mr. President, my colleague Stazic mentioned, in fact, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and indeed the decision of our committee opened this issue. I'm particularly pleased to say, however, that our committee's decision was being checked, it was under control at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia also made a decision rejecting the request of the HSS Club, but in that decision it clearly stated that independent representatives also have the right to compensation for these costs. That's not controversial. I believe that just by referring to this practice, the City of Zagreb City Assembly also decided that independent councilmen and council members from the list of independents have the right to this fee and that they are also paying it there in the City of Zagreb. As far as this second part is concerned, I'm particularly glad that you said that this problem exists and that it might need to be solved in another law. And that's perfectly acceptable to me and there's no reason why he might not be in the process. But there is no doubt that in the mandate that was before this and the decisions that, before this decision, the Committee on the Constitution, the independent representatives were actually in an unequal position. And they have expenses and they have requirements in their political work and taxpayers who voted for them also have the right to contact those MPs. And finally, when we look at the political parties they shared in mandates before and money they had no right to. I think this is one decision that is quite correct which the Constitutional Committee has made. That is why it has actually passed the control and supervision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And as for this, we can really in some other law, in a law that you mentioned about the right of counsel. So I don't care if it's the right to be in this law or in that law. It is important for us that independent representatives also exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57563	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57564	I had no intention of attacking you or your board, especially the Constitutional Court. You know what, the Constitutional Court compares a decision to the law, to the Constitution, and makes a statement about it. If the regulation is flawed, it should be changed. The City Hall of Zagreb followed the example shows that the epidemic is spreading. That makes things more dangerous. It's getting more dangerous. It will expand to other units of local self-government and we will introduce, we will bring political cleanness to the point that we will have one flood of independent MPs who will not be because they are originally independent. Because they are selectively independent rather than going to be declared independent in order to achieve a certain material benefit, not a material benefit. That's why I called the government. And now I call on you as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, because you too can launch an initiative to prepare your committee to amend the law, to see together the problem of colleagues Bošnjakovic. This is the problem. This is the problem of political corruption in Croatia. Let's solve it not in a way that we can say independent MPs out, you don't even have the right to the kuna. No, people have a need to, so of course they do. Let's make a deal, let's say it's what it is. It can't be $250,000 a year. It can't be a million per term. Or it could be 3, but let's make a deal and explain to the public why we decided to do it. But let's not let anyone declare themselves independent of that money, because that road is not good, certainly, definitely, we don't have to convince you or me. Therefore, when it is not disputed, I have called on the government, and now I call on you in public. I can prepare that, but the government will refuse me because it rejects all opposition proposals and it will refuse. Get him ready, he'll pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57565	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a law to encourage domestic production for tourism placement, we will not now vote on it to try to find some more solutions based on consensus between the government and the club and representatives, so we will leave it for later. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request for authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Jenna Adam, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal for a mandated committee, I am voting on a proposal for a decision which determines that there are no constitutional grounds for the application of the Institute of Representative Immunity and that authorisation is granted for the initiation of a criminal procedure. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 87 votes for, 5 abstentions and 4 against, the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57568	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow government representatives. The position of the HSP Club regarding the government's powers to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section is long known. We are opposed to such government powers mainly because we see that it was also for the former Governments, and unfortunately for these governments, that this exception is essentially a rule, so it always happens that during the regular breaks of the Croatian Parliament, it was that it was about one stop that the winter break government responded immediately after starting with the break, and many things that would probably be harder to pass in the process of regular law making in the Croatian Parliament react in a way that it regulates regulations with the legal power to say it even more easily. Here you see for this period we have such 6 regulations with legal power and we must be aware of Croatia slowly introduces into so-called The office system because the government on the one hand means it regulates issues that are within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, and on the other hand we are witnessing that more than 80% of the laws in the Croatian Parliament are being passed in an emergency procedure. And all that when it comes together, when we get together, we come to that fact, which is that we have big problems and therefore we are not surprised that this part of the screening has been delayed on the issue of justice and on the issue of human rights because this way of action means that we, on the one hand, are adopting regulations with legal force and on the other hand the adoption of many laws. I say over 80% in the urgent process we create this problem of legal uncertainty, which is reflected not only in Croatian citizens and individuals but also in the work of the entire state administration, and thus in all the judicial authorities. So we think that this, the government's reach for regulations should be governed by certain issues from the Parliament's section should really be an exception and there should be enough time for this to be done in due time because let's just take a list of these regulations that are contained here, which are now being given to us for confirmation. So all this could be done, and the Regulation supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials could be regulated, or the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, as could the Regulation amending the Law on Transport in Road Transport. We've had so many legal texts for a year and a half where this issue could have been discussed. So as is the Law on Waste and the Law on State Measurement and Cataster and Real Estates and the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. But here on behalf of the Club we must warn even though we supported this Regulation when it was brought in means last year before Homeland Thanksgiving. So this is a Regulation on the donation of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in areas of special state care to Croatian defenders and family members of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. We know for ourselves that this is now a copy of that regulation that was already passed last year before Homeland Thanksgiving. Unfortunately, though, we failed to discuss it. In this regulation, although at first sight we support the part that allows all these groups of the Croatian Defence Act to obtain meaning apartments and houses in areas of special state-owned care means no compensation. The problem arises for those meaning groups of victims or Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disableds who, before the adoption of this original regulation, have already entered this process and the process of solving through the agency means ABM. For they have now been brought into an unequal position compared to those who did not seek it before. Because those who requested during this period when the regulation, when the Government adopted the Regulation, it means either last year since 5 August they have the right to gain means without the compensation of the state to transfer that property to either house or apartment to them. But many of the victims had already entered with APN. One part, unfortunately, is probably not going to be able to get rid of it. It is those who immediately paid in cash that part that was mandatory under the contract they concluded with APN. But that's what I was saying on behalf of the Club and on the Committee on Legislatives, I think the Government should now react that in the cases of those meanings of the victims of the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, Croatian defenders of themselves, Croatian wartime disabled people who entered into a contractual relationship with APN and paid off in meals that part of the purchase of the house or apartment. So that's where they should react, at least in that part, to put them in the same position as everyone else, all of these groups that are now in that position for the first time. This means that at least they are given away this part of the payment of the war payment, so that at least they try to protect themselves because our HSP Club has addressed a large number of Croatian wartime disabled and Croatian defenders, mainly from these areas, means from Vukovar-Srijem County and other counties belonging to areas of special state care, which means they have already entered into the course of resolving their housing issue with APN, but they have this obligation contractually means that they are paying off that house or apartment that the State or APN granted to them in meals. So on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I suggest that they be placed in the same group. This means that they are allowed no longer to have an obligation to enter into a routing payment of that house or apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57569	Thank you. For the HNS Club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57570	Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would say that we are, of course, against the fact that the government's right, to regulate some questions from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, if not an emergency, and we have come to a situation that we have actually almost given up on that right, so that in previous years perhaps one regulation has been passed annually with legal force. So now we have only these months of the Parliament's break from 15 December to 15 January we have 6 regulations, of which 5 regulations are amendments or additions to the law. So we're going back to one practice that's been abandoned, and it's particularly unpopular for regulations to change laws. Some questions from the Croatian Parliament's jurisdiction may sometimes not be avoided in this way. But changing the laws especially then if it is obvious that in some way the Croatian Parliament is eskicipating it is certainly not what is in the spirit of the law that has been passed and we are absolutely opposed to it. So five regulations have been passed. Some were adopted on December 19th, 4 days after the constitutional deadline for, a constitutional deadline came into effect when the Assembly did not meet and some regulations were adopted on December 23rd. I will talk about a regulation that has very difficult implications, very serious implications and the question is why this regulation was adopted only a few days after the Parliament stopped sitting. I repeat, it is difficult to take the impression that it was deliberately waiting for the Parliament not to sit, so that this legal possibility can then be used and that some issues that might be more politically difficult are resolved, but indeed better resolved through the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to say a little more about the regulation that's been passed on the amendment and addition of the Waste Act. This law was adopted because there were difficulties with the adoption, i.e. the interpretation of the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste, and that regulation amended the law to avoid the charges of potentially anti-conclusive regulation. Our law states that regulations should not regulate matters concerning the state budget and tax matters. However, this Regulation introduces a fee so that one article of the law is amended and, instead of dealing with specific categories of waste, the types, amounts and charges paid by payment bonds for specific categories of waste etc. are introduced. So it's not a tax but it's a fee and it's a very serious fee, which is de facto then law enforcement. This way, according to the budget of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, 570 million kunas should be poured into the fund. Producers say it's even more, it's about a billion kunas or even more. It is therefore a very high item and it is part of a secure budget of what is called a wider budget of the state. Thus, in this way, there has been a de facto violation of the law prohibiting the Government of the Republic of Croatia from introducing taxes. This isn't a tax, but it's a fee that's hard to repeat, according to the fund's information, by their budgets, 570 million kuna. It's too serious a question. We can bring here the strategies that we are discussing for days, the laws we have been discussing for days, and then the government brings us rules that weigh 570 million kunas and then reports the Croatian Parliament with a backlog of here almost two months. Related to this Regulation, as you know, which has raised a great deal of dust, a great dissatisfaction between the manufacturer and the seller is a packaging, i.e. a substance with packaging waste. You should say a few words. This Regulation, to which this Regulation covers, has been adopted beyond serious consultation with the social partners. He has raised a number of issues that are unclear how it will be resolved, such as the question of how the seller or sellers will deal with the waste. Who will cover the costs of the collection and transport of waste, the sorting of waste, the reporting of the various types of waste they collect. This Regulation has not been resolved, as of course it has not been resolved in which the funds will be spent and the large funds that will be received through this Regulation, i.e. through this law, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. These are all very important questions. These issues will lead to sellers not being able to bear these costs, that producers will also not be able to bear those costs, so they will naturally fall on the back of consumers. This is likely to happen or is already happening, and the fact is that there has been a delay in the application of these regulations tells us that this regulation or this law should not have been amended in this way. It's too serious a question. The issue of environmental protection and the investment of these large funds in environmental protection is a first-class political issue and it is not wise to address it in rules without an adequate share of the Croatian Parliament, and this question should not be addressed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this way, in fact, by the possibility that, in the right way, in the right procedure, and then by a quality document, which will ultimately be discussed, the Croatian Parliament is discussing. Thus, this regulation, which is therefore covered by this Regulation, states that the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund is to enter into a contract with authorised persons for the disposal of waste at market price. But it's not clear what the market price means. It is not mentioned anywhere about a public tender which would then be the only legal procedure which could determine what a market price is. So the question is how will the Environmental Protection Fund hire these people to take care of this waste. I have in my hand one decision from the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency where a company called "B.B." d.o.o. from Zagreb subsidized interest of 2% effective interest on commercial credit. The company, which received therefore a subsidized interest from the Environmental Protection Fund, received 4 million kunas to help investment. This company is absolutely, it has advantages over all other companies. On which grounds, by which logic and whether it is the company with which the regulation will then be concluded a contract with an authorised person for the disposal of waste at market price, which will not be based on a public tender when all companies will have the same opportunity, and then equal State aid, through the subsidized interest as it stands here, or through the Development and Employment Fund, so that a proper match can be established. So there's too many open questions. The very figure I was talking about, which is 570 million kuna, and according to the manufacturer's views and over a billion kuna, says that this is too serious a question and this question, the fates of that regulation, which can be changed again, with all these stories being run around it, conflicts, etc., for the next 6 months. The question is why did we enter this process, to discuss it, to consult, to then adopt this regulation. And then the regulation determines that in six months, a new rule will be adopted. So it's all a bad procedure, and it's a very important issue and that's why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party won't support this report. In addition to the fact that the law that enables the Croatian Government should indeed be used in extreme urgency, and not as we seem to be deliberately waiting to pass the legal deadline for the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and then to adopt such regulations, that is to say, changes to the laws that might be problematic in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57571	Thank you. SDP club, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57572	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We at the Club of Representatives of the SDP are in a serious dilemma whether to support or not to support this report. ... constitutional reasons and for natural economic and social reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that we received this report, in the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority, actually 6 regulations. 2/3 of those 6 regulations, so 4 of them were adopted so as to enter into force on the day of their publication in "The People's Newspaper". The fact is that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the formal condition that the regulations that enter into force must have certain vacatio legions, and if the deadline is reduced by less than 8 days, then it must be justified, in particular the justified reasons why it is necessary to do so. But what is far more important to us is the fact that we have passed a law authorising the Government to pass regulations with a legal force, in certain cases, that we have, of course, ruled out, in accordance with the Constitution, when they are not able to do so. But there are some things that do not serve us or the executive government that this delegation, in accordance with the Constitution, is actually coming true. We would like to remind ourselves of the fact that, often in the debate in certain laws which were subject to these regulations, we have had very heated discussions, warning that some of the issues which, for example, are regulated by laws are difficult to ensure their implementation, given the deadlines shortened and given the possibilities and objective and subjective nature. So, for example. in the Amending of the Road Transport Act, when we warned that the age of the vehicle to be prescribed would be difficult for the legal person and the appropriate, or prescribed law, to ensure this, regardless of what we wish to achieve the appropriate degree of safety, related to the transport and insurance of the team, such vehicles, starting from the bus via freight vehicles to car taxis, then the Government remained firmly at its position, in its proposal and at the same time disregarded the fact of objective reasons which were raised in the parliamentary debate among other things. The law is passed. In order to finally get a regulation that puts that key deadline, and in fact the whole change of the law went precisely for those reasons, or it was one of the key reasons for changing that law, a practical one where it was prolonged for the next, for a period of two years from the date of entry into force, now again this law, or regulation. Now the question is, who needs it and what is it? After all, it turns out that the government is kind to our legal entities, economic operators, and, behold, it gives them one more chance, and the wicked Parliament practically does not do so through its legislative activity. Now, that would be simplified. It is far more serious that this issue or this law regulates certain positions of economic operators on the market, and that the regulation practically changes their situation significantly in a particular situation. And then it is said that this regulation will take effect on the day of its publication. Logically, because it was passed, as it says here on December 19th, and the deadline was due to expire on December 24th until they were due to comply or enforce the law. Of course, there should be no particular warning of what it means to apply the law and to ensure the implementation of the law in practice, given such permanent prolongations, on the one hand. On the other hand, the efforts made by individual legal entities, in this particular case by legal persons who have fulfilled the law, have fulfilled their obligations by taking loans or additional duties, of course by changing their terms of submission in relation to others who have expected and managed to deal with these matters among other things which have not implemented the law. In fact, they have become or received an appropriate reward, unless we are really put into a situation that as a Parliament, we have been mistaken that it is still impossible and it is not realistic in our terms to ensure that such a law is implemented, but then we should, at least, come into a position to share that responsibility and get a proposal to amend and supplement the law in the parliamentary procedure, and not to regulate this issue in the same way and on the shortcut. The second question that we want to point out is very serious, in fact, from the aspect of the Constitution is becoming increasingly common in regulations not only affecting areas which the Assembly has authorised to regulate by law in exceptional situations where the Assembly is not in session but also in areas specifically forbidden by the Constitution to regulate certain issues from its own circle, except for those relating to the development of the constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, the structure of the work of the state body and local self-government. See when you take a regulation on the donation of apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia in the field of special state care for Croatian defenders and members of their families, it is sickened by how law enforcement agencies will act, how the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity will act, how the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior will act. Excuse me, these are all issues that need to be regulated by law and must not be regulated by this Regulation because that is exactly what excludes the Constitution. This is a way of working that needs to be excluded and that the Constitution does not allow a regulation with legal force to be regulated. Why? Because these conditions, this legal procedure must be known in time and must be in line with that. The second thing we would like to point out in this section is the fact that this regulation refers specifically to all those who found themselves in such apartments and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia, of course, in a situation where they were found there by 1 August 2005. But what happens now? Suddenly, the deadline for submission of applications is extended by 30 days and this Regulation has been further resolved. It says that this Regulation enters into force on 1 January 2006 in Article 7 and Article 5(2) states that applications will be able to be submitted by 1 February 2006 so from 1 January to 1 February 2006 and is now asking the question which is the target group of defenders who are in that position in the area of special state care in dwellings and houses owned by the Republic of Croatia and whether constitutional law is guaranteed among other categories of defenders in similar positions that are equal before the law. It seems to us that in such a situation it would not be good to support this regulation either, and we believe that these things should not happen in the future because they are in fact seriously jeopardising the legislative authority and are referring to the question that regulations by the executive authority of the area governed by the law are quite different from what the law has offered. A colleague, Rados, rightly criticised the Regulation amending and supplementing the Waste Act, because, in fact, through this fee, a parafiscal institution was introduced, i.e. a tax applicable with the corresponding interest, ensuring that a particular category of producer, i.e. the importer of the product, was actually burdened on their product, i.e. their goods, at the same time on the outstanding amount, together with the corresponding interest, applies the provision of Article 26(1), (2), (3) and (4) and Article 27 and Article 28. Law on the Environmental Fund, etc. Of course, this significantly strengthens their conditioning conditions, but they must know about when the law enters into force, not on the basis of a regulation that amends the law, and then, with all this regulation, it suddenly again prescribes not only the way a single national body works, which is again the opposite of Article 87, but the cited paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia rather than, however, prescribes that the minister, therefore, will continue to exercise the delegation of power to the minister, because the minister will prescribe and adopt the regulation referred to in Article 104(1), point (1), (2) and (3) and indent 1. The waste law in which it will, in fact, adopt within six months of the date of entry into force of this Regulation, which will lay down actually the conditions for the exercise of the right. This is simply permissible not only because the way the state body works is prescribed, which is prohibited under the Constitution by a regulation to be done, but for the simple reason that this same Regulation can actually change what the legislator wanted and did with the legal standard, and in such a situation we will not be able to support this regulation, as there is more than an additional solution in Article 3(3) where, for example, it is said: until the entry into force of the Regulation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article which regulates the issues relating to packaging... remains in force under the provisions of the Regulation on packaging and packaging waste until now. Now what's up? What's used and what's the use of who's going. If, however, they do not stay and continue to operate under the now applicable Regulation, they shall mean, in respect of the collection referred to in paragraph 1, if they do not collect all those claims prescribed by the Regulation in Article 17a. the new or Article 1 of the Regulation will charge not only the price but also the corresponding interest and everything else. So the question arises, in fact, what is happening in such a situation and with the right of our producers and our traders, wholesalers react to this regulation, and no matter how much we all want to strengthen environmental protection and the protection of natural resources, and... with us, it is obvious that such a question cannot be done in this way and overnight, without actually being regulated by law and without proper debate. [[You don't understand.]] The second or third Regulation is a regulation amending the State measure law as a cadastre of real estate. What's going on with this regulation? Well, nothing, it simply extends as of 1 January 2006, is replaced by 1 January 2007. So for another year, it is given to whom, to persons with medium professional training who deal with the issue of problems measured by cataster and real estate, to actually extend their time to obtain appropriate qualifications, etc. And when we warned when the law was passed that it was simply impossible to implement it within such a short time period, then practically or not only in opposition, but also some representatives of the position that were shyly warned were brought into a position that any of their remarks had been rejected so that we would now get a subsequent recognition from the government, but in relation to the public, the situation turns out to be quite different, because practically that legislative part done by the Parliament, it turns out that the Parliament is much more stringent towards our citizens in terms of fulfilling individual conditions and criteria on the one hand and on the other hand that at the same time the government is ruling and allowing its citizens a better position than that the legislative body brings or wants and in such a situation is actually disabling and discrediting the legislative body, then the team remains more questionable, and whether this issue can be regulated and regulated in such a manner with regard to the status and status issues that are regulated. The regulations relating to the addition of the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, as well as the regulation relating to the Law on the Payments of Officials, do not make sense to waste words, but it is a key thing, it is impossible to deny and restrict the rights of a regulation of a particular category of our citizens and of civil servants and judges in this situation. We, when we were making the budget, passed the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and the Law on Budgetary Implementation, that question should have been settled. For reasons of lack of funds in the state budget on the one hand and on the other hand, to show at the same time that if you will... for the public and solidarity with all our citizens by state officials and judicial authorities, i.e. judicial officials as we can and wish to share together the difficult fate in which we are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it does not need to be regulated by regulations, it needs to be settled by the Budgetary Act and definitely removed these issues from the agenda. From all this, we will vote depending on the regulation to the regulation on the agenda. If the vote is voted on the full report all of a sudden, then unfortunately the SDP's Club of Representatives is because most of the regulations, which we've counted, we can't support then we won't be able to vote for the full report. But if there is an individual vote on individual regulations, then we will be able to support some regulations, and some of us will vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57573	Thank you. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57574	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This is exactly how government regulations are made when the parliament does not sit has motivated the HSS Club to propose a conclusion that the Parliament would discuss the role of the government, but also about the role of the Parliament in the adoption of laws and all of those acts that are important to the Republic of Croatia. We believe that, in this way, when the Government adopts an unnecessary regulation, the authority of the Parliament is withdrawn. And we believe that this is how the Parliament is marginalized. Of course it produces poor law quality, we change them too often. Of course, this also speaks of the poor quality of government work because the government does not respond in time. He's waiting for the deadline to expire, so he doesn't propose laws or changes during the session session. In principle, it proposes beyond the regular session and too often. But what we want here to discuss at the HSS Club is also the way the law is passed. Here is a characteristic example of the water compensation we had here a few weeks ago where the government was left room to bring the regulation. And that kind of regulation that has more weight than the law itself. In this way the Government through the regulation can also change the essence of the law. Investors who have received a new inducement will have to pay within a relatively short period in less than a year several hundred million kunas. It is a new burden that even happens for local self-government units, for municipalities, cities that will have to pay a new wage if roads work, build roads. It's like they're guilty that these roads weren't built before and that they'd work them if they didn't have to. Of course, it brings a certain legal uncertainty. Besides regulations, that happens with rules. Rules have more weight than the law itself as often as they do. But I don't want to accuse the government here. I think it's our fault that we're sitting here in the Parliament because we're not actually doing our job for which we're paid. We give the government to do it for us and lift it, not all of us, but apparently raises hands for such procedures, such procedures and such practice. Obviously, the exception of becoming in these regulations is more and more of a rule, and we'd like to put an end to it. A good example is also the Road Transport Act, which is also regulated by the regulation in this break where there is a famous provision in this Act which is a condition and refers to vehicles older than 18 years, that cannot be used especially if crafts or commercial companies are opened. And there is also a provision for the transport of pupils in vehicles not over 10 years of age. It is interesting that there are no such provisions in EU legislation anywhere. And it's interesting that at the same time in front of the HSS Club, he was in the emergency procedure of the Law, or his amendments, but we didn't want to discuss it here in the Parliament. We left the government two days behind to bring in a regulation that caused great dissatisfaction with these small people involved in transport. That's where I think of craftsmen and small companies because it turns out they wouldn't want to buy a car under 18. Well, of course they would, but I can't. But here's the government who knows why she's brought such a regulation. I would not want to accuse anyone of protecting the large capital that enters Croatia in the area of large-door transport. In the area of Slavonia we have already found it, soon we can expect it in the area of Bjelovar in Chazmatrans, in the area of Sibenik. And I am afraid that this way, since we are introducing a unique practice in this area of Europe where the condition for doing business is age, not technical correctness of the vehicle to miss and give in fact to the Government to do what should not be done to harm citizens beyond the procedure in the Parliament. It is also interesting, however, that there are certain government regulations for which it has been given the Parliament's mandate within 60 days to bring them in. I'll remind you of the famous changes to the law on renting a business space. Better said about selling business space to state-owned craftsmen. This Regulation should appear before, within 60 days of the adoption of the amendments to the Law, but it has passed 6 times 60 days, it has not been published, it has not been published. Apparently, the government is acting on the principle of hot-cold-hot, as it suits her at what point. However, it is obvious that if we continue with this practice, we have nothing left to do but propose amendments to the Government's Law on Power to adopt a regulation where the government could and should only be empowered to bring such regulations in the event of, I don't know, more force, war dangers and so on because it has been a little overplayed. She took over the role of Parliament. I don't think we should accept that, and I hope that through the proposed conclusion of the HSS we will discuss exactly the role, the legislative role of the Government and the Parliament soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57575	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When the Law on the Law of Government was passed, the government's powers to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's domain, then there was a reason to bring such a reason. It is certainly a smooth functioning of the state at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. That's the law you need. The state cannot stop because the Parliament is not in session, because in its constitutional stop, either in winter, it was in the summer period. That is how the Government was expected to understand this legal authority, and they are not tearing away, meaning interpreting it restrictively in extreme urgency when it is necessary to correct something in the functioning of the state, and there is no possibility of calling a session of the Parliament, apart from possibly an extraordinary session, and then perhaps it would not be entirely rational because of some small change in some single legal act. But when the government starts this extensively, interpreting its power so widely, then we can ask ourselves, and what will happen if the government continues with this and every year it expands and understands this legal authority. We're gonna get in a situation where we don't have to discuss any laws here at all. What's the Parliament doing? Why the Parliament? So let the Government change all the rules nicely, and the Parliament will meet afterwards and 124 amendments to the regulation adopted by the Government will discuss everything within one point, and this point will be called the Report on Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we will vote on all these 124 laws together and that will be the work of the Croatian Parliament. That's absolutely unacceptable, and now let's look at these regulations. You tell me, is there a regulation here that the government has not, that the government couldn't have known in advance that the law would have to be amended. There's not one. But not a single one. It won't pay 0.5% to state officials per year of internship. So it was known to expire on January 1st. Well, that was known, so why didn't it change in time to the Parliament? Apparently, someone in the government wasn't taking care of their business. He didn't warn the entire government in time that it was necessary to amend the law. It wasn't in time that he referred it to the government to amend the law. That goes for the judges, too. Please, what to say about the Regulation amending and supplementing the Waste Act. So look at what the government is saying in reason. Veli, the legal area of waste management has been governed by the 2004 Waste Act. Since 2004, it's been known that there's something wrong with the law. The waste management strategy was adopted in 2005, and says in law enforcement, no precise economic instruments have been properly regulated. In the application of the law applicable until 2004. So what have you been doing following that law since 2004? So you found out that law didn't work. When? December 16th, when the Parliament ceased its session. When did you find that the law didn't work? So listen, if you needed all that time, then resign. Then resign your duties, for you are not for those places you behave. In July 2003, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund was established, and now the government has only just realized. Look, she needed it from July 2003 until now to realize that the proposed addition of the Waste Act, which is prescribed for the benefit of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, was to be paid. It took so long. Listen, one who takes so long to realize that the law passed in July 2003 will have to be applied is not for the work he's doing. In addition, see, under this Waste Regulation, the widest possible public debate has been carried out. It's being discussed in public. That's what television shows are about. Government representatives, assistant minister, secretary of state, I don't know what Ruzhinski is. The representatives of the merchants, the chambers are coming. There is a dispute going on between the government and the Chamber of Commerce, a dispute over the solution to this issue, which is undoubtedly important. Well, that's one legal amendment. In addition, this changes the four articles that were unconditionally to be discussed in the Assembly, unconditionally. In addition, look, the waste was not collected for years and was not carried to the shops and received 50 limes for it. For years, what kind of urgency this was now to address the issue by regulation, and it cannot wait for January 15th to begin the Parliament's work so that the issue can be thoroughly discussed here in the Parliament. That the law changes according to the Constitution of a guaranteed procedure. The people of God still have to distinguish when it says so in the Constitution, and it says that there is a legislative and executive authority in Croatia. And it says, if the government doesn't agree with it, let it enter into the procedure of amending the Constitution, so let all the authorities take hold of themselves, and then change the laws, but then we have to change the constitution. But as long as the Parliament brings the laws. Let's try to hold on to it. Let's try not to take away the Parliament's right to bring laws. Therefore, because there is no legitimate reason why the government was late to refer these legal proposals to the procedure by December 15th, but no valid reason. There are no circumstances that came suddenly, unpredictablely, so that the government reacts to the regulation. Since there is no such reason this report should simply be rejected. Get the government to send all these legal regulations and legislative changes to the Parliament in a regular procedure and thus teach the Government how to behave, so that the Parliament can't be treated. You know, if the government makes some kind of prevention regulation, I don't know how to spread the bird flu because it came out suddenly, then it's justifiable. Then it's justified, but if she changes the laws she knew in advance she'd have to change them then it's unacceptable. Therefore, in the interest of protecting Parliament's integrity, and today the Prime Minister has answered one parliamentary question here that is in his interest, it is in the government's interest to encourage Parliament's work, to preserve Parliament's dignity, in the interest of protecting Parliament's integrity, to reject this report and thus force the government to act in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57577	Thank you. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57578	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I don't think we should be surrounded, but we should go to the bottom of things. All five regulations in my court are formally contrary to the law and to the Constitution, and two are essentially contrary to both the law and the Constitution. Why? The Council of the Republic of Croatia also gives power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt regulations and not to say a regulation with legal force but to a regulation within a year. The last authority to the government was given in the 10th month of 2005 and what under the Constitution can only last a year and the ex-legation will cease in the 10th month of 2006. So the government will not have the authority to regulate the issues that are in its area, in the Croatian Parliament's area after 10 months 2006, there is no such authorisation. And what the government has done with these regulations. Let's get this straight. In a regulation supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, this matter is regulated throughout 2006 by the Government, and it ends in the 10th month. So this regulation will cease to operate in the 10th month because there is no foundation, even as the Constitution says, only as long as the authorisation works, and for the longest year. So this regulation will stop working in the 10th month. So the government itself violates or breaks the authority given to it by the Croatian Parliament. The second Regulation also provides for a two-year extension of the time limit, in addition to what the government has regulated, by means of its regulation, of the amendment of the Law on road transport, to bring some business of craftsmen into line within two years, but this Regulation ceases to operate within 10 months of this year and the legal effect of the provision of this Regulation ceases. So it breaks the authority of the one given to it by the law of the Government. But look at the apartment donation regulation. It provides for some obligations in the contract for 10 years, a ban on the availability of housing that it receives under this, and the regulation will cease to operate in the 10th month of this year, no legal basis, no obligation. So this is a matter absolutely governed by law, not regulation. The regulations limit the duration, and the Constitution prescribes it as long as the government's authority is going on, it only lasts 8 months, only 8 months today, so it can only edit matter within that period of up to 8 months, and it regulates it for 10 years by regulation, 10 years, and this regulation will cease ex-legations in the 10th month, and all legal effects will be zero. If we were to add to this the debate that was here about the essence of things like the waste regulation, then we must really ask ourselves, those who represent citizens in this Parliament who are our task to bring declarations, strategies and other things, and the government will deal with regulations the most important things in life, the amount of what is paid and how much it costs and how long it will take. That's why I think it would be in the interest of the legality and constitutional role of this Parliament to return this to the Government with a sign of a regulation, and even these, let's close our eyes that matter is so urgent, bring the regulations, okay, but bring them to the exact length of your mandate until the 10th month of this year. You cannot predominate, resume or think that you will be given a bi-authority from this Parliament, it would simply not be correct for Parliament. That's why the Constitution has passed a provision saying it's been given authority for a year, not more. To no longer owe my proposal is really to return the regulations to the Government, to bring them into line with the Constitution and the mandate given under the law, so that we can accept no report but that regulation because the purpose of coming here is the report to confirm the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is the only way that the rule of law works, because the Croatian Parliament is a legislative body, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57579	Thank you. Do any of the proposing representatives want to look back? No, I don't. Then I'm closing the argument. Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal powers. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 68 votes for 6 abstentions and 24 against, the proposed report was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57582	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Legislatives sent a report to the President of the Parliament on a proposal for a credible interpretation which the Committee on Legislatives discussed at the 58th session of 7 December 2005 and a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 19. The Law on Political Parties and related articles amending the same law sent the President of the Croatian Parliament an act of 12 November "HNS and PGS Representatives' Club". I'm going to say very briefly what the proposal of the Legislative Committee is. If there is a need in the final review, I will look back on behalf of the board and some objections. Therefore, the Committee considers, in accordance with Article 173(2), that there is no need to give a credible interpretation of this law and, in the reasons, we have made it clear that in doubt whether the obligation of representatives of national minorities or independent representatives is to provide the means to work as are provided to political parties in accordance with the principle of equality, therefore, the Committee considers that this obligation exists under the same conditions or that there is no basis for giving credible interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57583	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. ... He's giving up? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Here you go. ... No one checked in. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm looking at the application logs. ... Here, you see, it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And where did my secretary go? Because in this, there are only two MPs and MPs listed in the proposal for that decision in this folder. Now she's given her colleague Lalic a third application and you're saying you've submitted your applications for the club. ... Okay, we'll see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Col. Arlović, vice president of the House on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57584	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! We of the SDP Representatives Club will not be able to vote for this report or this proposal on not giving authentic interpretation. We believe that simply this proposal does not give a credible interpretation, tries in fact to strengthen already done by the competent committee of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that has actually expanded not only the interpretation but also the jurisdiction of the Law on Political Parties. In fact, we'd like to remind you of one important fact first. The law on political parties expressly states that... the funds for the work of political parties to be provided in the state budget for the next financial year of 00.56% of the current budget revenues and, of course, the schedule for funding from these funds to political parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In itself, it is not possible to finance from these funds the work of a single representative more that, in accordance with the Law on the Rights of Representatives, there is actually a flat-rate compensation for individual work of legislators on the ground. Third, the fact is that on this issue one of the parliamentary parties of our colleague and colleagues from the HSS also addressed the Constitutional Court. Although the Constitutional Court has made no reference to this question, it has, in the light of its decision or solution, indicated among other things that this issue should be resolved and regulated by law, in fact, aware of the fact that the Law on political parties did not resolve this issue in a way that would give a legal basis for interpreting it as interpreted in practice by the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure. In particular, we would like to point out that I am the Committee on Legislatives, in my report, also states that the debate on the basis of this proposal for a credible interpretation has also provided a proposal to amend or supplement the rules in the area of electoral legislation or political parties in question to address and remove the possibility of different interpretations. Therefore, the Committee itself, which proposes such a report itself, determines that there is an opinion that can be interpreted in a number of ways in which such provisions of the Law on political parties are interpreted and that it would be most likely that the next amendment and addition of the law should be regulated if individual representatives can receive compensation for their work, in fact, by a competent law. We must, of course, point out that this solution to the Constitution Committee and the political system supported by the Assembly and, of course, supports the end and the Legislative Committee by proposing this report to the Assembly that no authentic interpretation is accepted, we have practically introduced a new practice, at a very political fluid and tense moment in the Republic of Croatia, from which such a single prize has resulted in a practical connection between a significant number of representatives and a coalition within the parliamentary majority for the majority of the ruling coalition, which can be said that, in fact, through such a material financial reward or compensation has actually been stimulated to such behaviour. We cautioned that this was a very serious precedent that caused a whole series of actions by members of different political parties and political options, and in particular individuals, to actually engage in talks, negotiations and crossing arrangements, as well as buying mandates or replacing mandates for certain situations, and in particular to stress that the basis of the Law on Political Parties is also adequate in Article 19. In fact, the law also applies to local self-government units. The question arises as to how much information we still have this fee granted to the political parties in the units of local self-government has not begun and paid individually to the council but in relation to this interpretation if the Parliament accepts it not to give an interpretation, so that even if the laws do so in their own position in relation to this interpretation, the position of the Committee on the Constitution and the political system will practically give the green light to start units of local and regional self-government on the ground by applying Article 7. The Law amending the Law on Political Parties, National No. 36 of 2001 in an adequate way to apply this provision of Article 19 to those representative bodies of the unit of local self-government and to practically those who passed over for mandates, which changed the will of the electoral authority, which led to the calling of extraordinary elections in certain units of local self-government to request and to win. And to get by this law money from, and for individual work as members proportional to the possibilities that are... In this way we actually want, we would not want to have one form of political action that could be said as an incentive to one form, conditionally told the bribery of the council to change and not only the councillor but also the MPs themselves to change their political will by declaring themselves independent and to secure those funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a big deal. It's a big deal. For our occasions on very large funds, especially when it comes to parliamentary deputies. According to some calculations and indicators, this is about the funds of around one million kuna for a four-year term, which certainly points to the fact that such one representative comes into an absolutely privileged position in relation to all other representatives because those assets that are party members take and belong to the political work law, and this representative who individually receives these funds actually enables himself not only to perform certain political but also to do the work which tries to justify these assets and, of course, tries to achieve not only political influence but actually distributes with great resources that give him other powers than that which he should have as a representative of citizens and peoples, or that he has political power and influence. Because of all these things, we openly warn that such a solution is not good. That, if this issue is to be returned in accordance with the guidance resulting from the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision and of the Committee on Legislatives itself, it would be good to remove this item from the agenda, prepare the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties or the new Law on the financing of political parties, and then resolve that issue. But not with the Law on the financing of political parties, but parallelly and prepare the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Rights of Representatives and to resolve in that law the equal position of all MPs independently of their political membership and option. Because we should remind ourselves of the fact that we also have a representative of MPs, representatives of national minorities who are not elected to the Croatian Assembly only as representatives of national minorities but as representatives, members of the political party who ran them, and they are in an unequal position in relation to the other representatives of national minorities, and that we are not saying that the other representatives belonging to political options are also in an unequal position compared to the individual MPs. And in this respect, the constitutional principle that we must all be equal before the law is also violated. We don't think this is good. That this should be withdrawn from the debate and that it should definitely open up the far more important debate, which is the question of how to finally settle the position until the end of the political parties, and that it corresponds to the current moment of multilaterals in Croatia by adopting a new Law on Political Parties. By adopting this law on the financing of political parties or of a special or within that law, and of course, in particular should be regulated now, after 15 years of independent and sovereign Croatia and on the rights and duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that these issues should definitely be removed from the agenda and, of course, in accordance with those laws, to regulate issues relating to the choice and choice of representatives and otherwise representatives of citizens in representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. For all of these reasons, we unfortunately cannot join in voting for such an interpretation because we believe that if we voted for such an interpretation and such an interpretation, such a proposal on actually not giving an interpretation in order to legalise, at the very least, an immoral action that has allowed, among other things, such consequences that have led to the purchase and trading of council mandates and the trading of council mandates in the area of local and regional self-government as well as in the Croatian Parliament. Let us not forget that some coalitions stayed for both money or that some remained in the coalition with the ruling coalition among other things and because of these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57585	Thank you. IDS Club. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57586	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government's representatives, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Oh, by my judgment, nothing here that the Committee suggested is, nothing, the representatives of the government I said, yeah, well, I meant it. I don't think anything here that the Committee proposes is controversial or should be. It is clear that all MPs are equal whether they are large or small parties, whether they are national or regional, whether they are independent lists or MPs that come to Parliament in this way. Whether it's national minority representatives. This logic means all obligations, all rights for all MPs or for each representative must be the same. So whether it's immunity, whether it's a salary, whether it's some of the basic fees, I don't know the funds for the work of political parties for which the budget provides 0,056% of the current funds from the previous year, it was clear that each of the MPs was given the same opportunity to participate in the debate. It is extremely unfair, or it would be unfair for parties to have certain rights and individuals, for example, who have been autonomously elected to this Parliament if they do not have those rights. I mean, here, specifically, the representatives of the national minority. The more we all agree, the more we are bound by the Constitution or by the laws that mandates exclusively or mandates belong to a representative, the less a foreigner. But where did the problem arise in Croatia? The public’s impression is that the ruling majority of such interpretations began, under quotes, to buy representatives of national minorities or representatives of some other political provinces. And that's the problem. Everyone who receives that fee is clearly in favour of HDZ. Or so practice has been so far. So everyone who receives the compensation backs the government and gets the impression that the government introduced this principle to maintain the parliamentary majority. On the other hand, the fee that, the principle of pardon, that this fee has to belong only to the parties is absolutely hollow. Why? Because this would prefer parties to other political entities in some way, although today the question of who is independent in the Republic of Croatia? For example, Mrs Holjevac received some percentage elections for the City of Zagreb city assembly to form a political party with her husband today. And now it's still sold as an independent. It's nothing but the people would say "Monty Python." Clearly, it is difficult to defend the principle that a stranger belongs to something, not an individual. This would be an inequality, however, I will repeat that this is the way in which this parliamentary stability is purchased in Croatia, and that will be all until the MPs in this House are under the allegations of "political institutions" and while all power is exclusively concentrated in the executive government. When that happens, it is clear that we will speak or that it will be a different position for the Croatian Parliament as well. If there is a difference in the funding of MPs in this House, then all other issues about the financing of political parties should be clearly opened because some parties have largely representative areas that they then rent, which in this way can live very well. While you have on the other hand a political party that actually has nothing and only lives on this fee. All in all, I think that what should certainly change in the political life of the Republic of Croatia is the position of MPs. It can't happen that 300 people have higher incomes than MPs on Croatian television, Croatia's insurance, too, and there may be 5 hundred in the INA. Any assistant minister or I don't know there, some boss is in a better position than Parliament. This draws attention to Parliament. On the other hand, it's doing whatever it wants, and it's certainly not good practice. In one word, for the end, these 0.056% should be divided by 152 as many MPs as there are at this time, and clearly, no matter what political implementation and what status that money is allocated clearly to those who are party to them personally but to the parties. So each needs to be assigned that one through one, 152 as it's already said, no, the share in that money. However, once again, what only bothers me is that it simply happened or coincides that those who receive these fees, first of all from the ranks of national minorities, are solely supporting a clear party in power and then it was thought that this principle was introduced to ensure the parliamentary majority. Okay, now we have one principle, and probably for those next elections, that principle won't change anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57587	Now the HNS club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57588	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I could not agree in any letter with what my colleague Cain said, let alone in terms of what he said. In fact, we launched this initiative because we are convinced that the letter of the law has been violated, but that the spirit of the law has also been violated. The intensity of the law, what the Law on political parties wanted to achieve and wanted to do. We are not at all in doubt whether Article 19 is. The law on political parties regulated the issue of funding political representatives, individual representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's not. It's not. The article regulates the financing of political parties, encourages parliamentaryism and multilateralism. Don't talk about how much an agent needs to get costs. That is why we have launched this initiative and we cannot agree with the position of the Committee on Law that the interpretation of the law should not be given. Four key reasons why the HNS club thinks so. First, the Law on Political Parties in full, and that is the name it tells it, deals with the topic of action and some part of the financing of political parties as an inevitable factor in parliamentary democracy. The law does not speak of the political action of individual parliamentary representatives, independents, those elected from party lists, those elected, those elected from a list of national minorities or any other. In Article 19, paragraph 2 is The law speaks of the principle of financing political parties. Therefore, the financing of the parties from the state budget is linked to the number of representatives in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, with the individual representative being the measures of the funds provided for by the political party in the budget. Therefore, the resources should not go individually to the representative, but to the agent. If one MP is so much a percentage, if two are double, if three are triple. The Article does not provide for the possibility of an individual representative to be the bearer or useful means. By amending the Law of '93, '98. and in 2001, the level and method of accounting of funding are clarified. It is clearly said that funds are being calculated, and I quote: "They represent the political party's central account three months at equal amounts.". How to reconcile with the fact that these funds are available on, I won't say privately, but the official account of individual parliamentary deputies I don't know. It's a direct violation of the law. The third reason, it is clear that the legislator's intention to set funding for political parties according to the criteria of the number of MPs in the Croatian Parliament was to advance the functioning of political parties, multilaterals and parliamentary democracy. Not to finance political work on the ground of individual representatives. There are other means to do that. If these funds are not sufficient to finance the political work of independent representatives who do not have the infrastructure of the parties behind them, then another regulation, not through this law, should determine that these representatives are to be placed in an equal position with the other representatives and the funds are to be realised in some way, so not by these thousand 700 pausals that all MPs receive, but by some larger means that are sufficient for their political functioning. And fourthly, it is wrong, under the term "independent representative" to include an MP who was elected from the candidate list of some of the political parties because in this case it is not an independent representative but a non-party representative on the political party list. There are such representatives in this House. Independent representatives, and the correct name according to the Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament is an independent list and an independent representative can only be the one selected from an independent list of candidates. So one that no political party has proposed has already been supported by citizens by their signatures under the law. This practice, as implemented in this Parliament, is the practice of direct financing of individual MPs who have dared to leave a party whose list they entered this Parliament, sends a clear message and... from such a message is that the mandate is for sale, that the mandate is worth some money and that it can be cashed. [[You don't understand.]] In the local elections in Croatia, some have applied it perfectly and made it a business. Today, there's a voice about how we're the country where corruption blooms. It's not just the fact that a civil servant or a doctor or a professor, if you want to, and what I know about who he comes to, with a blue service envelope, but the fact that we look favorably at these moves, that we actually find an excuse, an excuse for something that is, in fact, opposed to the basic settings of not only political jurisdiction but also basic civil decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57589	Thank you. For the HSS club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57590	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS requested a credible interpretation of Article 19. The Law on Political Parties and the related Article 1 of the amendment referred to in Article 96, Article 2 of the amendments of the 98th and Article 6 of the 2001 Act. The expected Legislative Committee proposes not to give the required interpretation, but not to Article 19, but to amend and supplement the Law on Political Parties. The Committee proposes a decision to the Parliament, and by reason of the decision, Article 19 whose credible interpretation is required is amended. This is probably a precedent in the legal and legislative practice of democratic and legal states, but obviously nothing should surprise us. Article 19 itself is clear and really does not need to be interpreted, but this article is misused by the Committee of this Assembly, which bears the name of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. It was misused on the day when the State budget funds were allocated to part-financing by parties to independent representatives and representatives of national minorities. In fact, Article 19 says, I quote: "The share of the funds for the work of political parties provided in the state budget for the next financial year is 0,056%, the funds of the current expenditure of the budget of the previous year." finished the quote. Therefore, the law clearly states that these funds are intended to finance parties, not representatives. As a criterion for the allocation of these funds among parliamentary parties is the number of MPs the party has in the Croatian Parliament. According to the same article, these funds are presented to the political party's central account. It is evident that the legislator's intention was also to prescribe the financing of political parties, not individuals. Why political parties? Because they are the expressions of a democratic multiparty system as part of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. So political parties are the expression of a democratic multilateral system which is one of the highest values of our constitutional order, and that is why the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia commits to the legal arrangement of the way of financing and is done by the Law on Political Parties. They cannot spend that money untransparently because the law obliges them to submit annual accounts to the Croatian Assembly and publicly display the origins and purposes of the funds they have received during the year. I repeat, this is not about the funding of MPs but about political parties as expressions of a democratic multilateral system. By deciding on the allocation of funds, the Constitutional Committee takes a completely wrong approach by treating these funds as funds for the financing of political work of MPs. The means of work of MPs shall be provided by means of the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Parliamentarians and state officials and shall be obtained through salary, a representative's fee, a fee of travel expenses that we have in the conduct of the agent's work, of course if we meet the requirements laid down by law. The application of this law shows the equality of all MPs before the law. The Committee on the Constitution is completely wrongly called for in Article 14. A constitution that says that all citizens are equal before the law. They are equal, but in the exercise of their rights and freedoms. Citing this very provision, the committee says, I quote, "The constitutional provision states that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament must have equal rights regardless of party and political commitment." finished the quote. Under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Parliamentarians, they were equal because they were paid for their political work equally independently of their political or party commitment. By its decision, the Committee introduces the inequality and discrimination of those representatives who have remained faithful to the parties on whose lists they have been elected. It is precisely these representatives who finance their political work from their own incomes, which is quite normal and we really have nothing against it. By its decision, the Committee has led to the privilege of one part of the MPs whose political work is additionally financed in addition to personal income from the state budget. An additional topic is the transparency of spending these funds. But we return to Article 19, which says that the work of political parties in the state budget for next year provides an amount of 0,056% of the resources of the current expenditure of the budget from the previous year. So a certain amount is allocated to parliamentary parties to finance their work to build the political will of citizens. Therefore, the incorrect claim made by the Committee on the Constitution is, I quote, "The decision taken by the Committee on 3.11.2004 did not violate the Law on political parties because the parties were allocated exactly as much funds as they owned by the Law.", finished quote. This is not true because they were not allocated 0.056% of the current expenditure of the budget from the previous year but were allocated less for the amount allocated to independent representatives and representatives of national minorities. And that's more than a million kuna per MP during the term of office. The whole mess was made when he could not properly answer the question of how many MPs the individual parliamentary party had. There are as many mandates as she won on the basis of the citizens' will expressed in the elections. It is entirely irrelevant whether he is a member of the political party or not. By accepting the candidacy on the list of some of the parties, he promised citizens he would represent the political stances and the party's candidate programme in parliament. That's why the citizens voted in favour of the list. The post of election abandonment of political positions and a party programme whose candidate was probably disappointed most of the voters who voted in favour of the list, but was therefore rewarded by the current government with at least one million kuna during the term of office, of course on top of the salary. It is also the right of every representative to change his political position and commitment during the term of office, but cannot give him the right to non-transparently receive and spend funds by law intended to finance political parties as an expression of a democratic, multilateral system as part of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It is an unsustainable argument that independent representatives, according to the constitutional principle of equality, have the right to funds for political work. Who are they equal with? With other agents? So these other MPs only have their own salaries, a representative's fee, unlike them, some others under a parol of equality next to pay and a representative's fee receive at least 250 thousand kuna a year. For the Committee, the dilemma to which the party belongs is that representative who is not a member of any party. The only logical answer, the one who ran him. It is unclear why the Committee does not fully recognise the clear provision of a law aimed at financing or rather financing political parties in part. In this way, protecting their freedom to represent citizens' interests in which they participated in building political will. Furthermore, the Legislative Committee assesses the proposal to give credible interpretation to unfounded calls for a solution to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and to give its position on this issue. The opinion and attitude of the Constitutional Court are not a source of justice, but let's ignore that little thing. The Committee should not appeal to this solution because the reasoning states, quotes: "The relevant Law on Political Parties sets out the criteria for the allocation of funds for the work of parliamentary political parties from the state budget, while the criteria for the allocation of funds for the work of representatives from the state budget should be governed by the applicable law governing the rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Any recognition of the right to grant funds for the work of representatives from the state budget and the legal arrangement of the issue is within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament," the quote concluded. Well, this House passed the law, and the equality of all before the law has violated the Constitution Committee by approving some of the greater rights than prescribed. It is incomprehensible that the Constitutional Court correctly points to the need to regulate the other law, and then says that there are no constitutional obstacles to the granting of taxpayers' money even though there is no legal basis for it, which means that it is unlawfully granted. Thus, we are guided by one who is called by law and is obliged to follow the fulfillment of not only constitutionality but also legality. He directs, suggests and recommends an act contrary to the law. Obviously, we should not be surprised at the lack of trust in the functioning of the rule of law. This is an example and clearly shows that a fully clear legal provision can be misused if there is political will for this abuse. The motives of such a political will do not need to be explained because they are fully recognizable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57591	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57592	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague Lalic said the Committee on the Constitution abused Article 19. The law. That such a decision actually led to the inequality and privilege of certain MPs. That's not true, of course. I respect actually the opinion and the position of the club, they have a legitimate right to think about the Committee's decision this or that, but it's simply not true and it comes from the very decision of the Constitutional Court from which the colleague read certain quotes. But the fundamental thing about that Constitutional Court decision is that it is said that the Constitutional Court assesses it until it can be regulated by the relevant law. We can really discuss this in which law we can arrange it. National minority representatives and independent MPs may be provided with the means to work with the appropriate application of the criterion laid down in Article 19. The law on political parties. All the rest is polymizing with a Constitutional Court ruling that's explicit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57593	Thank you. Second Amendment, Honored Representative Zdenka Chuhil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57594	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of counterpart Lalic, who claims that only political party representatives are the constitutional category. Both minority representatives and independent MPs are also representatives who are defined as constitutional category. Citing equality and giving up the right that such representatives cannot act politically, and forgetting that their electoral unit is all of Croatia is still far from the equality you are calling for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57595	Third correction, honourable representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57596	Well, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Lalic in the part in which she explains the distribution of compensation for the work of political parties and when she says that political parties did not get as much as the law allows them. On the contrary, the political parties, in accordance with the number of MPs in this House, received exactly the amount prescribed by the Political Party Act, in Article 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57597	And respected representative Ivan Drmic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57598	Mrs. Lalic could also agree in part that this problem could be better regulated legally, but certainly cannot agree with her allegations that the money is being spent by independent MPs and minority representatives non-transparently. I think that's what I'm saying in advance at my club because this is the first time we've filed a report for the past year. I responsibly argue that when the report is completed, or almost and delivered, that we can present it to the public and that the full amount of money we have received has been completely transparently spent, and that he would point out to her that her party and other political parties are spending money and will then see what non-transparent spending is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57599	For the club of independent MPs, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57600	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the thinking of the independent club, and on the subject we're discussing here, unfortunately, I can't help thinking that this subject that's now on the agenda is actually in some way focused on spending resources that, in my personal opinion and the opinion of the club of independent representatives, belongs in accordance with Article 19. Laws on political parties, but first and foremost guaranteed rights under the Constitution. So let me feel really uncomfortable when trade is mentioned in this context, and as you all do, and I believe that everyone and every single representative in this Croatian Parliament knows well that at least that part of the trade is not in any way related to the club of independent representatives and with another fact that all members of the club of independent representatives, I am talking about the facts did not leave the party but were kicked out of the party. On 12 November 2004, however, the HNS Club, the PGS, sent a proposal to the President of the Croatian Parliament for a credible interpretation of the Law on Political Parties in Part 19 which determines the amount and method of distribution of funds for the work of political parties. In the light of its proposal, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, held a decision on 3 November 2004 which directly violates Article 19. The law on political parties, which speaks of the financing of political parties whose candidates were elected to the Croatian Parliament. In this proposal for the HNS Club, the PGS is a controversial decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the allocation of funds for the work of political parties in 2004, which was unanimously decided by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on 3 November 2004, by which the funds for the work of political parties for the period from 1 October to 31 December of the same year were allocated to 15 political parties whose candidates were elected to the Croatian Parliament, i.e. 4 representatives of national minorities and 1 independent MPs. For the club of independent representatives, the decisions on amendments and additions to the decision on the allocation of funds for the work of political parties in 2004 by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System on 3 November 2004 were fully valid, consistent with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, of course the Law on Political Parties. I must stress that here I am referring to political parties and that I claim that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system have consistently applied Article 19 when it comes to political parties and that no political party has been cut off by such a schedule of funds for the simple reason that Article 19 sets out precisely how and how the funds are allocated when it comes to political parties. So, it was said for the speaker, it is allocated to political parties according to the law to be 0,056% of the current expenditure of the previous year and that this amount of money is divided into the total number of parliamentary representatives of this Parliament, and that then each political party, or coalition that took place in the elections, is relatively the number of political party representatives, i.e. the number of political party representatives, is the corresponding amount. Therefore, it cannot be spoken, and it has been discussed that any political party or coalition list has been suspended in this asset schedule. I think it is important to stress that and because of the public that it would not turn out to be at the expense of independent representatives or representatives of national minorities that any political party represented in the Croatian Parliament is damaged. It is true, however, that the Law on Political Parties does not mention independent representatives or mention representatives of national minorities. It is also indisputable that the Law on Political Parties in paragraph 3 of Article 19 clearly states that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament makes a decision on the allocation of funds for each year establishing the same amount of funding for each representative in the Croatian Parliament, so for each representative in the Croatian Parliament, of course for representatives of the national minority and for each independent representative. The right of representatives of the national minority and of an independent representative to the amount of funds for their political work comes from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is prescribed by the provision of Article 14, I repeat the quote: "That everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independent of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social status or other characteristics and that everyone is equal to the law". Before the debate began, I was convinced that the proposal for a credible interpretation of the Law on Political Parties does not constitute a denial of the rights of independent representatives and representatives of national minorities to the amount of funds for their political work, which, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, articulate and represent the interests of their voters, so those who elected them. After a few points of thought and discussion, I'm no longer convinced of it. However, I think there is an unwarranted criticism or a negatively targeted charge against independent representatives or representatives of national minorities in the part where it is said that they do not have a fee for political work and that they do not have a right to this fee. In conclusion, it is in the view that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament have equal rights independent of party membership and political determination of each representative shall be entitled to equal amounts of funds for political work, regardless of whether he is a member of a political party, a representative of national minorities or an independent representative. Taking away the right to work on independent representatives and representatives of national minorities would mean a harsh violation of fundamental constitutional and legal rights and an attempt to knowingly limit the political action of representatives of national minorities and independent representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57601	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57602	Mr. President, MP Šišljagic said they were expelled from the party. No, they are not expelled from the party, but according to the HDZ statute, you are not allowed to be in one party and make a list for another party. Since they already made a list for the other party they couldn't stay, they threw themselves out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57603	I'm the one who's got to get the arbitration. It's true that it's done by the Institute of Deletation, not by disfellowshipping. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57604	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the quote of a colleague who says there's one negative charge to independent MPs that is manifested through the denial of rights. That's just not true. We have just expressed our opinion that I cannot exercise those rights under Article 19. The law on political parties, which explicitly says it is the means to finance political parties but we do not object to the Croatian Parliament passing another law regulating their funding. Therefore, it is not a negative charge or a denial of the rights that should possibly be laid down by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57605	Thank you. And the third correction by the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So counterpart Šišljagic said in his debate that he felt that he was certain that it was a negative attitude because of this debate on independent MPs. This is simply not possible because, as far as I am aware, there is not one independent representative who would have been elected in the Assembly under the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. However, the law does not use an independent term but an independent list and no one has been elected with an independent list and no one has the status of an independent representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57607	These are difficult questions. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57608	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! So far, the debate and the request of the HNS Club indicate the lack of the provisions of Article 19. The law on political parties and on many other provisions of this Law on political parties. In this regard, the Court’s argument that this substance must be fully regulated and that the Committee’s attempt to regulate, in late 2004, in the procedure of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on political parties, or where it wished to regulate all the relations related to Article 19, means that it relates to independent lists, representatives from independent lists or representatives of national minorities. So it's obvious that we're going to have to regulate all these things correctly. Because these relationships so far show that there are many doubts and various situations. Let's say, normally I don't dispute that the HNS Club proposal is legal and legitimate to launch this issue, but on the other hand they don't mind that the LIBRE representative who is now with them who was on the SDP list today is within their club and that they get the funds from it. It's okay for them. But it's not okay. this part for independent or national minorities. Also, it's interesting to listen to Mr. Cain who says that according to the law that I agree with the independent lists if you're looking at the explicits they have no right but let's say his party has been doing this at a lower level in Poreč, Pula, Umag for five, six years now. It's allowed there, but I'm saying here in this variant is not allowed. It's an interesting situation, so you've been giving independent lists for years that way from the local budget, according to article 19, and here you're saying it's not right. Let's just be, let's remember the situation that exists. Like, it's the same situation. The HSS has its position but, let's say, in the City of Zagreb Assembly, they voted that the independent list Tatjana Holjevac has the right to do so and with their votes, the list was given the right, they opened the giro-account even though the law does not speak of Article 19. Therefore, there are many such situations that talk about it. For example, neither the CNS nor anyone else and the HSS didn't mind when the former coalition government split up, the HSLS split apart, and then a new Libra party was founded that didn't take part in the elections at all. It did not participate in the elections at all, and then it was normal and legal for them that the new political party, according to the number of MPs who did not participate as such, with the name "Libra", was called HSLS that they were getting the money. Then let's finally agree on what we want. If we want to, I think it'd be the smartest. This can be legally served on behalf of the club that the Constitutional Court has given the Committee the right to do so, but the Constitutional Court is correct and said it should be regulated correctly, so let's regulate everything. Whether it will be in the Law on Political Parties or it will be about the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials, but let's regulate all relations then. Does this refer to a political party that participated in parliamentary elections or will it refer to that political party that was created in the meantime? As was the Libre case during the former government. Does this also apply to the independents who participated or who became independent afterwards? So there are a lot of these situations that need to be regulated so that there are no these doubts and further debates. So, then, we stick to a bill of law. I think that we can even bring it all in by consensus and determine that there are no various resistances that have a character in being demagogy because one is spoken in the Croatian Parliament, and the other is done at lower local levels. Let's be consistent, let's regulate and then let's say that it will be applied at the level of the county, the cities and the municipalities, right? And how and to what extent and shape? That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57609	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57610	It is true that independent lists are awarded these funds in Istria, but this is now about the Law on Political Parties, Article 19 which tangs the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And in this it is probably one important thing, and that distinction should be made between the election of representatives and the financing of these parties, or of the independent and local ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57611	What was that all about? That was all, that was one explanation, one explanation was it? For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57612	... Honored Mr. President, dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]] I have to admit some times that this masochism that we as parliamentarians agree to fascinate me a little bit. The same one of the many auto goals that we've managed to figure out in these political games that we have in public this rating that we have is actually showing these things that are happening so here and now and actually again by who knows which times we're convinced that we actually have equal ones, that we're not all equal in front of the law. And some would like to introduce some additional and additional elements to distinguish. I mean this story, by the way, I say that in Croatia there is this particular anti-political hysteria, then in some ways I think it would be good for us to keep our own, our own dignity, and that a lot of things will be, if anything else is at least amongst us, we are cursing more clearly. I'm so afraid that by actually this story of MPs, independent MPs, representatives of national minorities, their stories that they became overnight millionaires, we actually made ourselves one in a series of these auto goals. I think there's enough in this country that there's an institution that can track how the resources that actually represent, through this form, are the members, are they members of political parties or are they independent, that there are institutions that are being monitored and that can really be very, very clear whether someone is, is someone that is being used correctly from the state budget or not, or was spending it wrongly? It would not be a good idea to really leave it to the court like this, that it is truly believed that someone who knows from whom, again, the most likely political reasons, becomes an independent representative, so that it becomes compositative immediately overnight, and that it is indeed experiencing that these 250 or already many thousand kunas are using in the wrong way annually. I mean, with that again, it must be clear that here I am in Parliament since 1992, there has been no call to Parliament where there have been no resolutions and where people have not changed political parties. It started there in 1992 if I remember with HND, with that so then in 1997 we had the HSLS resolution on HSLS and LS, and then in 2001 we had the same HSLS on Libr and Libr and HSLS and in some way and this is what happens in this assembly that some MPs actually left and changed it, in fact, their starting positions as they entered parliament. But it really does belong, it belongs to that political game risk. Anyone with who does this is actually taking the risk of getting a finger up or a finger down and there's no reason why we're still gonna be those judges and we're making it impossible for them, we're making it impossible for them, I don't know, or that we're now discussing whether colleagues and colleagues from national minorities or independent representatives have or are not entitled to compensation. Exactly that, if the Constitution guarantees the equality of all people, then according to no reason to... Some other criterion and this principle of equality should be the principle of which we, in our discussions, will also go through relations and I say indeed there is an institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, that money cannot be spent untransparently. He must, he must justify himself to the last kuna that the political parties are thus also valid for those individuals who receive the money from the title of being independent representatives or representatives, representatives of minorities. The second thing is whether or not we have to think about maybe someone else, changes in fact to some of our legal regulations. Is the only really good principle to be the principle of the chieftain, which means that the money to individual parties is divided only by the number of MPs, and then in the beginning we actually create those who have quite a lot. These are HDZ and SDP representatives. Or those who have very little or almost, who are almost those funds that they receive from the state budget are not enough for one normal functioning because there is no big difference in the functioning of a small or medium or large party, and I think that there should actually think about going exactly to be a government that will actually offer some other solutions that would be acceptable. Where in fact all parliamentary parties would in the beginning no matter how many MPs they had had to be in an equal position, and one of them, and that smaller element should be exactly the number of MPs that in the beginning did not even have this significant differentiation between large and conditionally spoken or small parties. And this, indeed, this story about whether or not I really want to believe that our legal state is working, that the institutions that are monitoring, that are following our transparency. If we all have to contribute every year to how these money was spent, I also believe that it's true for these MPs, and that's where people really fall or don't pass. I really want to believe that no one really has become a millionaire and that, and that 250 thousand kuna has just been paid for political action that certainly to those who themselves have made it harder for them. It seems to me again somehow that really between collectives and individuals that we always stand on, always apriorius we side with collectives and then the collective is fine. It's a business that's considered to be okay, and as soon as we actually meet the fact that some times an individual acts as an institution that is immediately in the beginning comprehensible. We hope that these times have passed and that we really need to defend this principle of equality, this principle of equality, and that, regardless of the status that they have in this Parliament, indeed, what the law says is to be distributed. We can even say here that we, the male part of the Parliament, are in a weaker position, right? There's this, and I'm going to say this bonus that belongs to MPs, MPs, and it doesn't belong to MPs. Just that in the name of the HSLS club, it seems to me that, too, don't get me wrong, one in a series of these auto goals where we're actually giving ourselves material, staff, public and then that, and we don't keep joystick and very hard interpretation anyway, trust me dear colleagues, it's not going in our favor, but it's precisely in apricot that I want to believe that we do it honorably, honestly and in some way every 4 years we take exams in front of that public. We're testing ourselves that there's no need to actually get ahead of this job is that, this is how we present ourselves whether someone really is or not a millionaire. I think it's one wrong question and a question that doesn't seem to help change the perception of our role and work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57613	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57614	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected representative, Kramaric, is eager to prove that those who advocate that money for political parties' work is shared with political parties advocates the inequality of MPs. No, it's not true, it's the other way around. In fact, MPs coming from political parties to the Croatian Parliament are no longer deciding individually on money for political parties' work. And every independent agent decides on a million kunas in office, just him. Therefore, this equality and the purpose and purpose of money is completely profiled, lost, because it is not a day for political parties to work. By adding immediately, I also advocate that independent MPs get the right part, the appropriate part for political activity, not to take the money for political parties to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57615	Thank you. At 17.02, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57616	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What did our Legislative Committee say when he refused to give an authentic interpretation? So he respected the opinion, the position of the Constitutional Committee, and the Constitutional Committee says, it stands at the point that the party is equal representative. Well, it's not. It's not because of much. First of all, the elemental logic points us to that, it would be the same as in Movati if the judge were the same court in which he judges. It's not. The parties are one constitutional category, the value of the Constitution. Our Constitution says that multilateral, democratic multilateral is one of the basic constitutional values. The allocation of funds to the parties by the number of MPs in the Assembly means that the agent here is an accounting unit. It could have been defined differently. It could be said that the formula is like this, the parties will, the parties will be allocated funds according to the percentage of votes received in the elections, if you calculate them in terms of Dont's method. Because it's the same thing. But then it would be clear that the money belongs to the parties according to their success in the elections and that it is money that can belong to the parties and only to the parties. Now, the Constitutional Committee has turned that accounting unit into a representative. It's illogical first, the second one's totally illegal. Because this is opposed to both sayings and norms and intensities of the Law on Political Parties. Why the parties even have money? The parties receiving the money on the basis of the mandates won, i.e. the results converted into mandates by Dont's method of spending on their overall activities. And not just for the action of your club, not just for the action of your representatives. According to that logic, this is the second argument which makes it impossible to even the party in its integrity with the mandate of the MPs. It is said in this decision that it puts MPs in an equal position. Listen, not to be put in an equal position, but exactly the opposite. The MPs share. They are divided into independents who receive besides their salaries, besides all that other MPs receive, one million kuna per term. And to those, to the other group, to the parties, who don't get that money. That money gets the party they belong to. This leads to something that is peaceful, without exaggeration and without the intention of calling anyone insults political corruption, or the introduction to political corruption. It's a purchase of loyalty. Trade behaviour in the representative government is emerging. It's coming. It's said to be sent a message, you come out of these parties of yours, whose lists you've come to, you declare yourself independent, it's purely material to you. Not small, not small, a million kunas per term. And that encourages such behaviour destroys what I was talking about at the beginning, constitutional value, multiparty system. Let's change the constitutional value and declare that an independent representation is an independent representation in the Parliament of constitutional values. Let's change it so the Constitution Committee and the Legislative Committee will be absolutely right. But as long as we have this constitutional value, let's not go over it. Let's not deny it. Let's not pretend it doesn't exist. Let us not invent values that are above or equal to it. And if we think those values are there, then let's get them into the Constitution. But let's have this guts to suggest. If the intention is fair, and if the intention is to corrupt it, buy the voice, buy it, and I won't, then of course they won't propose. Now, what to do with non-party representatives and minority representatives, the question is legitimate, of course. The only thing that is not legitimate is not to solve it and allow it to be fished in a blur on the basis of this question which is legitimate and which may need to be solved. It highlights an asset benefit that is not small. When it comes to these independent and minority representatives, I think they should be distinguished. One is minority representatives, and we make a solution to associations of minorities that exist and that they represent get money. Not their representatives, but those minorities. They will then be put back in a position where party representatives, with party representatives, receive money, and here they will receive minority associations that have run for office, who have voted for them and which they represent here in the Parliament. When it comes to non-partisan MPs who are of a kind, let's call them apatrides, no one belongs to them, they have no domestic citizenship of the party, so there are two types. One who entered parliament as independent and non-partisan, who chose their non-partisan mandate and those who entered the party list and then became impartial. Whether because the party kicked them out or because they didn't want to be in the party anymore, either for some third reason that now they can't imagine who it might be. Logic can be followed and such a representative has been elected so whether he is selected on the party list or not, he remains a representative because he has no imperative mandate etc. And he needs some funds for political work that can't be covered with that cobweb. You got it. Well, let's agree on how much these funds are, how long it takes them to normally perform their function uninterruptedly. But, dear people, let's not pronounce them parties when they're not parties, so they're not. So we can resist our board as much as they want to declare a representative a party and they can't because no one trusts him. Let's agree that these need money, let's say we change the Law on the Rights of Representatives, where we determine how much that amount must be, but I assure you that if we change that law, it will not amount to a million kunas per term. Well, maybe that's why it's not done, so the government doesn't even start that change of legislation. But please, on behalf of the integrity of the elemental one, I call on all the independent MPs, calling on them to propose an amendment to this law, I will more believe to them that their independence is not motivated by a million kunas per term than that it is motivated by a desire to get adequate means for fair political work, which we are all for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57617	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57618	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would correct the quote of fellow Stazic who, in the decision of the board, actually saw one political corruption, purchase value, trade, and he's right, I don't mind if we evaluate an act one way or another. But I find this allegation incorrect because in fact the goal was not to buy anyone but indeed the goal was to implement the legal provision in a way to ensure the equality of all before the law. This means that those representatives who are within the party and those who are independent have equal working conditions and that I think is our motive, and I think it would also be your party's motive when it actually worked in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57619	Replica, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57620	Thank you. I'm replicating my esteemed colleague, Stazic. If I understand correctly, he says political parties are constitutional values, I fully agree. But then by arguments and contrast, it turns out that an individual is not a constitutional value. I hope my colleague Stazic didn't think at the end of his mind that an individual wouldn't represent a value in our constitution, a desirable value. And then actually out of that thesis of collectiveism that's anti-individual is actually pulling this second one out that it's really political corruption every time. You see, in 92, when a number of HDZ people went to HND, they actually went to say that in a weaker position, they just agreed, they rebelled against something, and they agreed to be a minority, they didn't go after the benefits. When she was 97... HSLS we stayed within the opposition, not that disolution was connected to some material or I don't know I don't give God some other values. [[You don't understand.]] I want to believe that this is also in 2002 with the Libra case where people have actually just maintained the existing situation and that in no way have they been politically corrupt and let's not be, and let's not really insinuate in advance that every time there are certain political misunderstandings that are indeed political corruption. ... I think there's an example of it all you want, but I'm afraid it's really this insistence on something that creates a very bad impression in public, that once with such a practice we should break up and that it's really about unnecessary plantings. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57621	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57622	Dear counterpart Kramaric, first of all, does not say Stazic that the political multiparty is constitutional value, the constitution says. That's different. Second of all, we can't get out of it and contrario is the conclusion that an individual is not a constitutional value. We can't. It's a logical mistake. And an individual is a value but not in a sense where a political party is and cannot be equated with a political party, cannot be equated with a political party, and if we do not equate it we cannot conclude that we do not appreciate an individual as a party. Second or third, motive to move into independent representation, I said could be material. I said, it's a prelude to corruption. But you know what's certainly a prelude to corruption or corruption alone? It's an insistence not to solve this issue. To leave it in such a cloudy way with interpretations that are actually completely unsustainable, with the refusal to amend the Law on Political Parties, the Law on Representatives, and to resolve the issue in a rational way. On a rational note, in order to derail any possibility, any doubt, any chance that any of us here, either of us, or the public, of any of us, are accused of corruption when fate or our own decision takes him into independent representation. It is a non-resolvement, a non-resolvement of this quite certainly creates or encourages a picture of the corruption of our society. With this, we have problems in negotiations with the European Commission. You'll see, these problems will still be revealed. Let's at least solve the ones we can solve in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57623	Another replica, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57624	So I want to replicate my fellow Stazic right in that part and agree with him that it's really high time to regulate this. In the sense that minority representatives finally cease to be discriminated against and that they finally gain value as do other political representatives, or political party representatives, because we said they had the same value that comes from the Constitution. You were here talking about the value of a million-dollar minority representative. And your value is equal to a million kunas with you spending your resources through the work of the political party, we'll spend it through the office. And maybe we took one step ahead of you. Perhaps this is the time to open up the real issue of financing political parties on the one hand and on the other hand the spending of funds stemming from the parliamentary mandate. All over Europe, the funds stemming from the parliamentary mandate are spent on the functioning of the office in the constituency where the office is opened, where it is working with voters. Unlike you really legal and totally agree to spend your resources through a political party, I spend them through an office that's open in my unit and available to all voters. And therefore, I have no property benefit as you have mentioned, but I have made very good contact with my constituents, using them for the same goals your party uses.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57625	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57626	Well, look, these money's being spent both in parties and in your office equally. And the party has its offices in local communications areas with the parties. I am for it, as you are, to regulate the question of minorities, but you misread it when you claim that my value is one million kuna per term. No, that's not my individual value. I'm here as a reckoning unit as I said. It's an accounting unit. As many percentages as my party won in the election, so when it is calculated by Dont's method in terms of mandates, that's how much money comes from the budget. She doesn't belong to money called Nenad Stazic or Joseph Lek. No, I don't. And you see, in minorities and independents, that money is suddenly individualized, and that's where the problem arises. And that's where the problem arises. Money, you're a minority representative, and I am for it, I am for it, and you've achieved a certain election result. When it is presented and mandated that the minorities you represent here in the Parliament, you are worth doing it, sacrificially and honestly, Mrs. Chuhnil, that these minorities, the associations of these minorities get that money. And let them organize as my party organizes offices, let them organize your office, but that money cannot go to your expense. He can't. We're against it. I'm not saying it goes to yours, with individual agents going to their account. We're against it, and that's why we're against this kind of interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57627	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. She's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57628	Mr. President, let's remind ourselves first of my question is when. On November 12, 2004, we requested an interpretation of us at the time of the disputed provision of the law. November 12, 2004. We're discussing this today, it's fast. It was only 8 days after the Committee made a controversial decision for us at that time. And with no events after all, by declaring new self-proclaimed independent MPs. Possible writings and affairs on how to spend these funds, our proposal doesn't matter because it was given first of all. That's the first one. And especially not with the Independent Advocacy Club because they are the youngest in Parliament. They've been erased or turned off, anyway. Second, what were we looking for? We addressed the Committee with the opinion that Article 19. The law on political parties is interpreted differently by the Committee and asked the Parliament to give the interpretation of the law. But we haven't written any interpretations, we haven't spoken in the text of interpretation as we see it. We warned, pointed to a problem or a possible problem and addressed the only competent body and said give an interpretation, we have different attitudes, we think differently about the law, we read it differently. So we didn't offer the text of the interpretation. So why, then, if the Committee is convinced that the decision of the Constitutional Committee is not legal and has made a proposal to interpret that, under the Law on political parties, independent representatives have those rights. And they would delay, even this debate wouldn't last that long maybe. No arguments, no bile, no arguments, nothing would happen. But the obvious problem is that such an interpretation is given which becomes an integral part of the law, that a new Pandora's box can then be opened. That's why he didn't want to, and he doesn't want to give an interpretation. I think in our proposal we were extremely correct. You suggest an interpretation, we didn't force it, we didn't offer it back then. We're offering it today. Is there an interpretation to be given? It takes the very fact that we read the laws differently in Parliament. So if we're interpreting here differently the law that was passed in this same assembly, then how will the citizens interpret the law? So if we interpret the law differently because it's really so hard to interpret, we reach consensus and interpret those provisions. And what is particularly dangerous, the debate has come down to whether minority representatives have the right or do they not have the right to funds? Who was it when he challenged our initiative, who was the problem when the initiative was launched? But we said it was the Law on political parties, which took the number of party representatives as a benchmark for determining the amount and that it cannot be financed by those who are not political parties. Is it necessary to resolve how national minority representatives are financed? Yeah. So why doesn't someone come up with a suggestion on how to handle it? Whether it is necessary to accept the fact that, beyond the Law on Elections in Parliament, only declared independent representatives automatically receive the status of an independent representative, or we will say that only those who have passed the elections with an independent list are independent and we will also solve their funding, but also as the Constitutional Court's opinion that this must be the subject of other relevant regulations. So let's get other proper regulations and then settle it, set the rules of the game, and we'll never have to talk about it again. There is no other way than by interpreting regulations when there is a dispute to solve the problem and take off any credit or possible credit from the people who use it rightly. This is how it's gonna be the most damage to them. Coli Kramarić advocates pushing things under the carpet, pretending there is nothing, and there is a problem, he calls it masochism. Where else to solve problems than in Parliament, colleague Kramarić? It is not a question of rights but of insisting on respecting the law as it is written, and if you feel that such an interpretation and our approach would make national minorities, or their MPs, and even independents were damaged and you are part of the ruling coalition, so make an urgent proposal for a law to remove it from the agenda. There was nothing else here, there were no other initiatives, there are no other backgrounds about it because I don't know how else and get out of it if we turn to Parliament to interpret the law and if we have any more points behind this interpretation of the law, and yet another where clearly there is a different reading of the law. And finally, if not by interpreting the law, why not supplement and amend the Law on political parties? Why don't we change that institute and change or supplement the law to make it perfectly clear if not by interpreting the law? So what's the problem? Obviously there is a problem, one offer of ways of solving is declared not by attacking independent, independent and minority, but other solutions are not offered, it bothers me. That is why I am sad that we must not even open these topics in Parliament in this way in some ways and clear things up and it is said that the debate is disturbing, damaging Parliament's reputation. I'm not sure that the proposals and efforts to solve the problem and delay suspicions are disturbing the reputation of the problem. Maybe there's something about Parliament's reputation that bothers you, but this certainly doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57629	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57630	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you see, colleague Lesar, you're asking quite logical questions here. The title of the law is whose own provisions want to interpret here beyond the law, the Law on the financing of political parties. Often, if we don't know what the title is, if we don't already know, then the financing of political parties. Is it fair that others do? These are other questions that cannot be brought under this, and it is quite logical that you ask the question why, so this is the Parliament that passed the laws, but it does not rape the laws or do so. And you see, so there's no interpretation here, the most estensive, extensive interpretation can't withstand this intention, or this kind of realization. It can be nice, you have most, you can come with such a legal proposal and everything is fine. This is inadmissible. What kind of message we send to ordinary people when this is happening in Parliament, and in the end, just draw up a parallel of the interpretation of such, or the application of the law's caucus and the repayment of the debt to the pensioners. Restriction restrictions, there are no rights that have died until then to deprive themselves of that part of the debt, then do not have these heirs, then now please also interpreting such restrictive provisions of the law do not even users of the family's pension. So just compare these two things now and then how will the citizens trust this Parliament? Not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57631	Not rape, to pardon. The answer to the replica, if he asked, was not asked for by Mr. Representative Lesar. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57632	It's a good thing it's not being transmitted because the President of the Parliament would be charged with sexism, but I hope that doesn't happen. ... Isn't that right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's good. First of all, let me tell my colleague Lesar, I don't know where he gets this idea that I belong to the ruling coalition, I really have to admit it. ... Not very confident. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] God forbid anyone would work on planting things under the carpet but as they usually come to us instead of here in a few of Parliament's calls, it was proposed to change the Law on the financing of political parties, and that this was also one of the foundations of these constitutional values that were allegedly being sought by political parties, and that was clearly not remembered, but I also participated in it, but how much I was indeed a member of any coalition that proved to be how these appeals ended in the basket. What's wrong and what's actually with your... I wanted to win the club, which is that it's not exactly this perception that politics is corrupt, and it's all these logical performances that are actually logical nonsense because we can show ourselves a hundred times that every time every discussion and every giving up was politically motivated, and not by any corruption to preserve or participate in something, and that's what fellow Lesar is about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You need to find proof when someone was motivated to do otherwise, to confirm these thesis that it's about political corruption, and that some things should be standardized for me that I agree with you too, but not in this way that a priori started talking about corruption and that it's about immorality and that it's about actually and you try to deny it in public right now. And I don't want any part of that story. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57633	I don't know why a charity pledoise would be sexism. ... You'd be charged with moving if you'd harden the rape rate forward. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57634	Thank you very much. A colleague asks you not to defend her, so be worthy. First, a colleague of Kramarić's that HSLS belongs to a part of the ruling coalition I read in the paper and see how you vote every time the key points are, so I led to that conclusion. ... I can see that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And then when your hand got stuck on the camera, it was supposed to remind you that you needed to raise your hand. Secondly, I did not say political corruption, and I did not speak of political corruption at all to my colleague Kramaric. And something like that wasn't on my mind. So, if you're pollomizing with the thesis of political corruption, then the other one said it and neither of us did. None of us have said that, God forbid. But the problem is that you, by your approach and performance, advocate that there is no discussion as if there is no problem because you do not offer solutions but you represent yourself as the moral vertical of this Parliament in a way that we must not discuss topics that you do not like, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57635	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57636	Thank you, Mr. President. So on the agenda of this session, we have three requests for credible interpretation. One of these is this one, and I don't see why the HNS Club then and PGS did something wrong when they asked for authentic interpretation because this is the only place that can give such authentic interpretation. We have come up with those ideas that both colleagues Vuljanic and colleagues, Lesar, presented in their discussions, meaning those four points cited by fellow Vuljanic from the law that says exactly what is called, is the Law on political parties, is not an independent law and I don't know which other, and is not even the law on the financing of political parties, but is the Law on political parties and the very fact that such a law speaks of political parties. One article also touches the way in which the articles are financed, in Article 19, which was both controversial to us, and where they are told exactly where, which way, and how much of that money is calculated and how much of the budget is allocated to that political party. It's all in that law. And now you'd be replicating some of the people who called here and I'd be done with this part. I think that the HNS has in good faith launched this initiative with the intention to regulate these illogical documents because the question is raised, we have the Law on political parties, whether in a different way to regulate some other law or supplementing this law the financing of both independent and other parliamentary representatives. We believe it should, but they are not subject to this law. Now, let me rephrase to those who say that in this way we're all equal. I say we're not. No way. We who are in parties are in a more unequal position in any case than those who are independent. They can set up offices, they can charge themselves travel expenses, they can't know everything they don't, go to various counseling, have even employed their staff. None of us who are in a political party can do that. By the way, we all pay membership fees in our own parties. For example, I like every colleague from my party a thousand kunas a month. A thousand and 700 get to work on the ground, a thousand kunas pay membership fees. Everything else we pay out of our pocket, all travels and everything else we all pay out of our pocket, and because of that, if we talk about that equality, then I claim that we are in a much more unequal position than those who now receive 25, 26 or 27 thousand kuna. And it's easy to wash it and I'll tell you that on my example because so far since I've been here in Parliament I've got four offers to change party colors if I don't count on that one that I could go to independent so I take those 25 thousand kunas. I also got four offers to go to other parties, and one of them was like, "Let's make a deal, half the party and half you."so these stories about it we don't know, is, isn't, can do, can't do it anyway. One thing I'm curious about is that we're law enforcement. This is the Political Party Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57637	Yeah, half of you and half of Charles gives. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57638	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect quote of counterpart Kapraljevic when he says he is a member of a political party in an unequal position or an unequal position. It is simply not true, because he as a political party representative gets the same amount of money but gets his political party, and how the political party and the political party's leadership spends so he doesn't care about symposia, exchange rates, travel costs is the domestic matter of the political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57639	Five minutes of debate, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57640	Thank you, Mr. President. I feel a little guilty about starting this whole initiative so things don't go unsaid. The initiative's initiative was the law and its respect. No more than that, but no less. So, solve what's unclear. As the law now applies, as decided by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to apply it opens up space and leaves opportunities for various interpretations that at least benefit independent representatives, representatives of national minorities and so on. No one needs that. It was therefore the law's intensities to clarify the intensity of our initiative. No one intended agents outside the parties to resort to some pillar of shame and now find out that they don't know what they're doing with 250 thousand kunas a year or how it turns out. But what we're talking about right now isn't the law that speaks of them at all. Well, they shouldn't have been mentioned in the discussion. It's not the law they're talking about, it's supposed to be some other law, some other regulation that would regulate their financial rights to finance political work and wait bigger. The collectiveity and the individual. At least no one in the Croatian People's Party has ever thought of this dilemma in the Club of Representatives, and the least solution to the dilemma is that the collectiveity is everything, and the individual is so only by the way. But no one, no individual, and no party here is aporeori suspicious or apriori saint. Except for one who does not respect the laws passed by this House. If we insist on respecting the law, they are also worth the collectiveity of political parties, of course for individuals. So let's apply the law while it's here. Let's apply it before and above everything as it says. It was the beginning of our initiative. Then let's apply it the way he had the intensity. What's his social intensity? The social intensity of this Law is to encourage parliamentaryism and multilateralism in Croatia. That's what it says, that's what it says in there. As long as it says so, we should stick to it. The moment we find that these solutions have fellers, that they leave out one significant number of people, one significant number of parliamentary deputies, and so we change the rules, we bring in a new regulation, and we solve things in the best possible way. Again in the interest of the very ones in question. As for the auto-naked. The only auto golf that we give ourselves is when we don't talk openly about things that hurt both us and that keep citizens out of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57641	And the auto goal is naked. For the Club of Independent Representatives, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57642	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The club of independent representatives respects all those arguments and arguments made here in the debate, and it is absolutely certain that we can agree on one fact, and that it is obvious that the applicable legislation is not sufficient, is not transparent and that this is why there are no more doubts in discussions than the opposing positions in this case on compensation, compensation for the work of both political parties and representatives of national minorities or independent representatives. It was also said in my opinion hard words about political corruption, about trade. I believe that these words are not said in an evil way, but there is absolutely no reason to approach the transparent legislative regulation of this problem seriously. Whether it will be called the law on political parties or the law on the financing of political parties in the Croatian Parliament and representatives and other MPs is perfectly irrelevant, irrelevant. But obviously there is a need for the part of the work of independent representatives and representatives of national minorities, and perhaps today or tomorrow and some third, fourth categories of representatives to be regulated legally by their funding and their political work. When we talk about the amount of funds then a lot, when said in the four-year term of a million kuna, then it's, I agree, very much. But it is also a fact that every political party representative in particular, especially when the numbering funds are allocated, receives a million kunas, or that amount for each political party representative, is just the political party. The political party, according to the number of MPs, also has those, with millions depending on the number of representatives of the political party. Of course, an independent representative or representative of national minorities is available although it is not a million kunas, I think it is somewhat smaller, but it does not matter, it has the same means and I think it is the right and independent representatives and representatives of the national minority to be equal in this Croatian Assembly, so all MPs and when it comes to compensation for political work. But I also think it is and I think it is obvious that this issue must be regulated very quickly by the relevant laws or regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57643	Thank you. And the HSLS Club, the esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić. Five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57644	... I know it seems strange to you. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]] I know you live in paradoxes or one or the other, but I always... I assure you I didn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And believe my word. As I trust you with my word, you are the opposition. No, yeah, yeah, that's it. ... Mr. President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, it's very interesting how we're inclined to actually live a virtual reality. It's, and of course we're speaking very well now, in principle, we didn't want to hurt anyone. There are no insinuations, no implications, and in fact, we are here to witness that from time to time from the bench he throws himself into being a millionaire or that someone is doing something just to become a millionaire and so forth. We are, but we are very principled. And it is, and don't let God question the relationship that collectiveity is everything and the individual is nothing. If so, if we agree with this fundamental premise that we really don't think that collectiveity is everything, and the individual is nothing, then why are we so avoiding doing something infravors of an individual without any additional legal solutions that are currently in place, not this moment in 2006 but since 1990 do not exist in this Parliament. And I'm sorry if someone's just fighting that virtual, or that perception that's being created and waiting for you on the street because you're an individual with your name and name going to the polls and you're not hiding behind the collectiveity, so let me defend the individual. To defend some principles. But here it's all very possible. We didn't want anything. We've only launched the initiative because, the matter is unresolved, it's not normable. We wanted to standardize. So who told us to keep it normal? And then the initiatives were that indeed, yes, so in my opening statement, I said that it was, that it was not good for the chieftain to be the only principle. That it's not good, that it's out of every sense and that in the white world, it's not a major thing, but it's one of the elements that rewards the fact that the electoral body is supported. But in order for parliamentary parties by definition to be in Parliament, and that something must belong precisely to the functioning and parliamentary parties. And here I'm just not letting there really be first-, second- and third-row representatives. That's all it's about, and it's just defending itself, not moving things under the carpet. It would be inadmissible if we were really here, not to say what the principles are, but we have one, and then the Association of National Minorities should, so someone else should. I mean, what are the solutions? Where are these grounds legally? Where they are founded, in which law rather than our own way. To suck out of our fingers, we suck out some solutions because, in short, only this little chronology has shown that most of the political disagreements have not been politically motivated, in that sense, in order to benefit the majority. Find me this example in these last 15 years, for example in Croatia. On the contrary, people were abandoning the position of President of the Parliament from certain likely political motives, not because it would go better. Long ago 1994. That's what it was then. And so. And that's why really when we're going, well right, and you're not going to say it, I'm saying it's this virtual reality that this very virtual reality of ours, this planting between us actually isn't real exactly that perception of the public that we really live here happily. And here's what fellow Caine says that from a colleague... He hasn't won in 15 years he hasn't got lip. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's, on the one hand, let the parties solve these problems why they're actually making it impossible for me or Kapraljevic or someone else to do what they're supposed to do, how they're supposed to work. Or it's just the fact that you're agreeing to join a political party to make it so. But there are institutions that follow whether something is transparent or not transparent, how it is spent or how it is not spent. And I don't want to believe that one of us suspects that... They're spending these funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But don't ask it to be us, that we prove it here. Well, we're not the court and the police here. And that's all it's about. And indeed, once we stop these infertile debates that are as principled, and we're actually agreeing to live exactly this duality that is inadmissible and which, in fact, forgive me, as a man and a politician bothers me. Well, then let me hear here that something I don't know that anyone else knows that I, I don't know, belong to this one or that block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57645	Thank you. Well, the rapporteur, president of the Committee, respected representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57646	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I had a need for a few minutes to report to the final review. Not as much for this point as these next two. Let me remind you that we have proposed here a decision that we propose not to give a credible interpretation. We have absorbed that decision on the Legislative Committee in a way that President Shakespeare has absorbed some points, I open up, I conclude the debate. Our debate lasted two to three minutes and we voted off our feet. And besides the proposing, respected colleague Vuljanić, who is a member of the Committee, because he had to vote like that because he suggested that a credible interpretation be given, we all said we should not give a credible interpretation here is all clear. And that is our decision, and we have just passed on a proposal in this House not to give a credible interpretation. And there's been a debate that's developed. So they claim one another, the other another, etc. What would be here if the Legislative Committee were to propose, God forbid, that an interpretation be given to someone who has received that money that money does not belong, because the proposal for a credible interpretation and the credible interpretation that this House brings to this proposal has retroactive effect. That's the kind of decision someone would have to pay someone back. They are independent representatives and political party representatives, independent representatives and representatives of national minorities to political parties or some other variant, one, yes, the other. This committee, the Legislative Committee, did not want to relax. And the Legislative Committee, and I will take this opportunity here because it will be asked at the next two points, in particular thanking Vice-President Lek and all the members of the Legislative Committee, because we, first of all, special and colleague Peri Kovacevic, are working exclusively as lawyers on the Legislative Committee. And on this issue, the legal profession has agreed. No credible interpretation should be given. The person who thinks that his individual decision, which is the decision on the allocation of funds, has the right to have instruments of judicial protection, including the complaint and return of funds to his own account from the possible individuals who have wrongly received it or if there has been an unfair distribution. Therefore, the observation by colleagues Arlovic and his colleague Lalić that this position prevents someone from adopting a different regulation absolutely does not stand. Notwithstanding this view, any authorised legislator may propose legislation, amendments to the law which will regulate this issue in the way he thinks appropriate. In particular, it does not stand for the quasi-legal opinion of counterpart Lalic that decisions and the opinion of the Constitutional Court are not a source of law. They certainly are, and it was never questionable for us lawyers. Once again, I thank all the members of the Legislative Committee here so publicly for the excellent and collegiate relationship with such difficult issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57647	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57648	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's completely incorrect that my colleague Boras said that I said this was an obstacle to the law. No, I, perhaps, for you in a quasi-judge, am the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, pointing out that under the law to which the Constitutional Committee is called, no such decision can be made. But we represent the view that it is necessary to pass the law in order for such proceedings to be based on the law. Well, my colleague Boras, when you convince him, at least consistently convince him. Maybe it won't be quasi-equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57649	Thank you very much. Peace out there. Order there! Let's go to... I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Decision on a proposal to give a credible interpretation of Article 19 Laws on political parties and Article 1 Law amending the Law on Political Parties, Article 2. Law amending the Law on political parties and Article 6 Law amending the Law on political parties. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion, the decision shall not give a credible interpretation of Articles 19 and 19 of the other articles. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes for 3 abstentions 28 against the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57652	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Maybe this previous final review of me also because of the previous point, but also because of this point. Namely, the Legislative Committee submitted a report on the proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 3(2). The law on the privatisation of Croatian telecommunications, which was submitted by Vlado Jukic of the Croatian Party to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 1 July 2005. Since I suppose a bile debate will develop here too, and I will say this here immediately, once again, the Legislative Committee proposes that no credible interpretation be given because the provision is clear, and by us no doubt in the provision of which interpretation is required. And here at the debate on the committee is pointed out if someone believes that such application of the rules violates one's right, especially the material right, the right to shares, the right to dividends, that the only way to judicial protection including that last instance is the Constitutional Court and the suit that can be brought there. The Committee on Legislative Law therefore proposes that no credible interpretation be given. There have been objections that the Committee on Legislatives and I, as its president, have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on certain deadlines, I immediately reject all such objections here at first. There have been some misunderstandings, irregularities, etc. but they have not affected anyone's rights, and you can see in particular that the Legislative Committee finally comes up with a proposal like this. Therefore, the Legislative Committee proposes that this Parliament should not be given a credible interpretation, it shall decide not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3(2). Law on privatisation of Croatian Telecommunications d.d. People's Newspaper, number 65/99. and 68/01. I'm not going to read the text of the argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57653	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. For the club of HSP representatives, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57654	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I've been here for 10 years, so I've heard a lot of things, but this is what my colleague-in-Office of the Committee of Legislatives said, and that means there were some deadlines that didn't matter, but good. As you know about those who are representatives, there are many who were representatives from the ruling party, when in Croatia the Croatian Telecom Deute Telekom was sold to the Croatian party at the time we were public and in every way possible and here in the Parliament and we were asking questions about why gold coke, which means monopoly in telecommunications sales, and it was sold as you know about very small amounts that we had doubts about. It was a few, 300 million DEM then. That we were right to say today, and it is manifested in the next. Win 2001, 310 million kuna. Get a billion and 864 million kuna in 2002. Get 2003 billion and 488 million kuna. Get in 2004 billion 924 million. Each of these benefits is the total amount paid, except, of course, this first one, which the Croatian State received for the majority package of Croatian Telekom sold to Deutsche Telekom. That's amazing but true. However, whenever the topic of the contract and between the Croatian state of the contract on the sale and privatisation of the Croatian Telekom was raised as a question and on the agenda, we always came across the wall. In Croatia, it is not a military secret, it is not a state secret, it is a top military secret as far as the planes can take off at this time, but there is a big secret agreement on the privatisation of Croatian Telekom. What is available in normal democratic states on the Internet and in newspapers to all citizens, as it should be reminded of the fact that this Croatian Telekom was created by investing Croatian citizens. Hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens invested their money in the construction of the Croatian Telekom, which someone sold for peanuts, for amounts that are ridiculous when we look at the amount of profits per year back five years. It is precisely funny and of course that there are arguments for one great doubt, and this doubt could only be shown in a way that is publicly announced about the sale of Croatian Telekom so let's see who is what and why he signed and sold and the question unfortunately and in the mandate of the last government was a matter of all questions to us and we tried to open the issue a number of times. We have the right by law, by whatever means you will, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to information, we MPs cannot see with our eyes the contract to sell Croatian Telekom. What's normal in neighbouring countries to publish in newspapers is saying something. And speaking of bribery and corruption, we should start with big things, not talking about bribery and corruption in some categories of 100, 200 or a few thousand kunas. Sadly, that is the case. Last year in July, July 1st and as a Croatian defender and as chairman of the Committee on War Veterans, I opened the question because then to remind you there is not a single kuna based on 7% of the shares of the Croatian Defence Fund was paid to the Croatian Defence Fund. In the meantime, of course, nearly a year has passed, several hundred, 200 and some million kuna shares of dividends have been paid into the Croatian Defence Fund. So, however, Croatian defenders received a certain amount of dividends from the ownership of 7% of Croatian Telekom shares, but they did not get what belongs to them under the Law on Privatisation of Croatian Telecommunications. What is also an open question of the government's and parliament's relations and the functioning of this House. President of the Parliament, you have not once shown that you are very careful that the proposals that come before this High House are consistent with the Rules of Procedure and we have little or no examples that the proposals of certain legal acts or other acts have been returned with the remark that they are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I ask the question how is it possible that the proposal for such content has come to the Parliament's agenda when it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and is not in line for the following reasons. You, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, submitted a proposal for a credible interpretation to the home working body of the Committee on Economy, which was the parent working body where the members and representatives of this Assembly were present, held a session on 7 July of last year, meaning 7 days after the submission of the proposal in the procedure, which was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and reached certain conclusions. However, although the Committee on Legislative Law was obliged, it did not put the opinion of the Committee on Legislative Affairs as a parent working body in general into the material that we are discussing today. He simply ignored the fact that the home working body discussed the proposal and that the opinion of the home working body is very important for the agenda procedure. On the contrary, although the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament speak explicitly about the deadlines, but not about the deadlines, but about the deadlines in a way that is very significant and explicit in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and they refer to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So says article 173 of our Rules of Procedure, and we all say we should stick to the Rules of Procedure. "After the expiry of the period referred to in Article 172(3) of this Rules of Procedure, it shall assess whether the proposal for a credible interpretation of the law has been established and shall, within 15 days, report on its position as Parliament." So our Croatian Parliament has a Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that if the Government does not give an opinion on a request for credible interpretation within 15 days it has to be considered, it explicitly states in the Rules of Procedure, that the Government gives its consent. However, our Legislative Committee has completely ignored the express provision of the Rules of Procedure and has found it here in the materials, which should not be, so I have an observation. He has been calling for the government's opinion since 22 September. Imagine 5, 6 times the deadline. The government gentlemen knew that the deadline was 15 days, and if they did not give an opinion within 15 days then they would be deemed to be in agreement with the giving of credible interpretation. And that is the legal fact that must have been in this proposal, Mr. President of the Parliament, which is not contained in this proposal. On the contrary, the violation of the Rules of Procedure in point 2 of this proposal mentions the opinion of a government that does not exist legally. It has been sent beyond all deadlines and has been considered in my opinion, according to the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that the Croatian government has given consent to give a credible interpretation. And that's what the formal objection to this proposal is. Of course, there is no opinion here from the Committee on War Veterans who would certainly have anything to say about this. Unfortunately, however, I must inform you that my attempts as chairman of the Committee have been in vain. And that the representatives of the ruling party in this House, apart from the honorable exception, had obstructed the work of the Committee and it was not possible to put together a quorum of the War Veterans Committee on this subject. And that is, of course, one of the political facts that needs to be respected, and for that reason, you have no opinion of the War Veterans Committee. Finally, I find, therefore, this proposal has no formal basis for being included in the agenda in this way. Because, on the one hand, it ignores business obligations, which means the parent working body, on the other hand, calls for the opinion of a government that simply cannot be in such a proposal because, according to our Rules of Procedure, the Government has agreed that this opinion should expire within 15 days. There are no other interpretations or interpretations. And now something about the essence of the proposal. It could be discussed, and which one of you wants could also read what the opposition is. Obviously, there's a legal doubt. There's a legal doubt. People who wrote the Law on the Privatisation of Telecommunications who made a proposal and a lot of legal experts claim what I say. That the dividend money belongs to the Croatian Defence Fund from the day the Telecommunication Privatisation Act was passed. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not done so but believes that money belongs to the Croatian Defence Fund since the moment those shares were transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund. Although when you read, if you read, clearly and unequivocally what was the intention and what exactly it says in the Privatisation Act of Croatian Telecommunications. However, unfortunately our Committee on Legislatives, such is the proposal here, called for the general law, and so on. Lex specialis simply neglects. Of course, there is a legal doubt, there is a political doubt. But if there's already a doubt then the question needs to be asked. The issue is the government's relationship with these ruling majority to Croatian defenders. Because it is certain that the government has done everything and that the ruling party in the Croatian Parliament has done everything and has violated the Rules of Procedure at several stages to prevent credible interpretation. And this means to prevent the Croatian Defence Fund from getting another 150 million kunas which, in my opinion and opinion, a lot of people belong to Croatian defenders. When we remember that this government has made great efforts and amending the Law and a good part of the money has gone to the Croatian defenders, so the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry has crossed 4 billion kunas, then we really need to ask ourselves what the problem is and whether these 150 controversial millions is so much to question the general relationship of the Government to Croatian defenders. But obviously there's something here. Because this kind of struggle after a year is over by all deadlines, by searching for all possible ways, by manipulations of the Rules of Procedure that I have never seen in the Croatian Parliament, and here I am for 10 years, obviously saying that there is motive. What is the motive of such a struggle not to give interpretation and that Croatian defenders do not get that 150 million, and I repeat this government has made billions for Croatian defenders. So we have an agreement with HVO where several hundred million more will be given by the Croatian state to Croatian defenders. It's amazing that this 150 million problem, but obviously the problem lies in something else. Because if not, this is what happens to this credible interpretation in complete contrast with the government's stance and the announcements "we will restore dignity to Croatian defenders". We cannot restore dignity to Croatian defenders if we violate the law, if we violate the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, if the legal doubt which should be interpreted in favour of Croatian defenders is used against Croatian defenders. This is not restoring dignity to Croatian defenders, and the amount is not enough to justify such one behaviour. I believe that the government has illegally kept in the Croatian budget dividends belonging to the Croatian Defence Fund. I, of course, have the right to this attitude, not to write it by heart, but to consult, I say, with a lot of experts and with those who wrote the Law. The government thinks that's not the case. Was it not normal for it to be resolved here in the Croatian Parliament, in the body brought by this Law and interpreted by it? No, but of course someone will be forced to apply for an assessment of constitutionality, legality and all those legal procedures, and some other government will return the money to Croatian defenders. But I'm not surprised at that. We are filled with the Ministry of Croatian Defence, a little bit and the account is blocked and it is a shame that in this Croatian state, which so calls for its relationship positive towards Croatian defenders that the Croatian Ministry of Defence has a little bit of a blocked account due to the performance of these same defenders who had to exercise their rights through the judicial system and the prosecutions and the lawsuits. That's sad, so I hope it doesn't happen in this case. That this story is interesting, it tells the fact that according to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and this Fund is formed as you know, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Telecom one is given by the Fund, i.e., by association of defenders. And you know what happened? A year ago, they determined that our co-ordination of defenders was determined by an article of the Fund's Supervisory Board, one of the heads of the association. Do you know who sits on the Fund Supervisory Board, on the Supervisory Board of Croatian Telecom? A representative of the Government who does not wish to withdraw the Government of the Republic of Croatia is sitting in spite of all efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a year is not allowing or withdrawing a member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund, the Supervisory Board of Croatian Telecom and there does not simply want to allow a representative of the Croatian Defence Fund who, by law, has the right to do so and is speaking of something about the relation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Croatian defenders through the action and work of the Croatian Defence Fund. My colleagues and colleagues on this story won't end. I assure you, we're not going to give you a credible interpretation. The decision is not in favour of Croatian defenders. If there is a doubt, I am convinced and I suggest that the Croatian Parliament and if there is a doubt there will be a solution for the benefit of Croatian defenders, not to the harm of Croatian defenders, as contained in this proposal by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57655	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57656	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll speak a little differently from Mr. Yukic. The first thing I'm saying is that the Croatian Defence Fund has been making dividends for over a year. Mr. Jukic, some here speak clearly that this should be made possible for defenders since 2001, more specifically since 27.7.2001. ... 2003. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Other things I want to say to Croatian defenders, especially disabled people are not legally neglected. The other thing is that some tycoons took advantage of the moment when there was war and became very clearly rich with the support of those who sent these others to war. Clearly over these were to carry out a revision of the conversion, it did not happen. I agree that it hurts the truth about the huge profits that are made in Croatian Telecom. We just heard the data in 2001. 310 million kuna, 2002. ... $800 million, 2003 billion 488 million, 2004 billion 927 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It pains that the former governments have sold this at this time we see the most profitable Croatian monopoly. It pains that the Croatian Telecom's profits are being transferred or exported or extracted to Germany today. It hurts to see Croatian telecoms, as you can see, etc. and others who have received concessions on these telecommunications today agree on the price of telephony, which is contrary to any fair market match and to which no Croatian government institution reacts. It also hurts the secrecy of the contract for the sale of Deutsche Telekom hrvatski telecom to which this House cannot get insight and pain and that clearly Croatian power has spent this great gain in the part in which it has been represented long ago. But what now? Does pushing the country into some anarchy, in chaos, into bankruptcy, to divide the profits, mean retroactively or perhaps to preserve it from it? Here we heard Mr. Jukic talking about 150 million kuna. Okay, someone's gonna say it's not spectacularly big money. If the state spent those 150 million kunas then it probably spent them on 4.3 million inhabitants, the defenders in this country have about 600 thousand. Today I told them that dividend was paid off. Yesterday it wasn't. Is it possible to pay off the backlogs like this 150 million kuna? I will not say that it is not possible, but we are now coming to this authentic interpretation or credible interpretation of this legislative proposal. It is clear that the future government must comply with the laws this Parliament is making, in the future clearly paying the dividend, but today retroactively without the Constitutional Court's decision we can make such a decision as in the case of the return of pensions, I am speaking now in the Constitutional Court's decision, and I do not think that in such a commitment we should not give in. I also believe that even the opposition shouldn't be too late about it because it could easily be taken over in 2007 and then what? Finally, the HSP should not promise impossible because the question of whether they will respect it, and anyway when you support the budget, etc. You can make a deal with the government to honor, say, one tiny, under quotes "detail" of only 150 million kuna. It is possible to return, i.e. To meet this obligation to, for example, The state sells some monopolies, and that by building these funds, then settle the debt as it will pay the pensioners 50% of their debt clearly without interest, etc. by selling INA, HT, and perhaps ultimately Croatia's insurance. What would you say? We're supposed to sell now because we're not going to meet this obligation by defenders of which 50% I dare say never the fronts have seen, I'm talking about those who were in these various offices, etc. Once again, I'm going to say that this is 150 million kuna, for example. We could do it elegantly to sell Jadrolini as mentioned in the Government's bill. But my advice is let's not do that. On the other hand, the defenders weren't at war to win anything. For those who have come out of the Homeland War as such, let us not make them all, gentlemen, unreal promises, because with such promises, in some way, we are destroying the earth. Come on, let's all ask ourselves how to get the money. In order for a craftsman or not to pay a salary of 3 thousand kuna he must earn at least 20 or 25 thousand kuna and let's keep that detail in mind, so let's not exaggerate with the rights that are not based on the possibilities of this country. I'm going to say once again, to the disabled absolutely everything, the others will realize that some things shouldn't be promised. We can, let's go split it all up, but I'm saying it's better instead of maybe spending through the allocation of certain rights to divide or rather invest in the development that money creates money. This is how we spend our substance, and in the end, we have nothing. However, as it is not realistic to promise, it is clear that the government should not ignore the laws. The position of the IDS is clear that future dividends are shared in accordance with the legal provision and that this issue is now not open earlier years because it is not that Croatia cannot resolve this, but once again I will say, I believe that these people will understand very much the moment in which the country is located. Finally, once again, when we pass laws, we take care of the country's material possibilities. The dividends do not restore dignity to Croatian defenders. The dignity of Croatian defenders returns when we hire the 30,000 of the 310 thousand people who do not have a job in Croatia today. Let's settle the status of new pensioners. We have allowed the defenders 45% of the minimum if I am not wrong about pay, so they have pensions which are huge and hard work of the Republic of Croatia that will only "come" to financial taxpayers. We solve the health system and then we share, sell out, sell out everything we have to be cynical clearly, but first we solve the naked existence of 310 thousand unemployed of which is 30,000 and defenders. On these 30,000 unemployed defenders, it is clear that there are 30,000 people with disabilities and not these 150 million kunas. Lastly, it might be best if this decision or if one such request were to go to the Constitutional Court and, according to their senses, the Croatian government also took steps to implement the decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57657	Thank you. Corrections to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect quote when he said that the opposition was lamenting with this request for credible interpretation. That proves he hasn't studied the material at all. The credible interpretation applies and should be determined by this credible interpretation of whether or not the Government or the State has abolished Croatian defenders. And it is evident that whoever was in power needs that debt to the defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57659	Second correction by the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57660	I am also correcting the inaccuracies of the esteemed colleague Cain who said that this proposal by Mr Jukic has the character of unreal promises. It is incorrect because this is only about respecting the legality or respect of the Law on Privatisation of Croatian Telecommunications and requires respect because the Government has transferred 150 million to the budget and should not have done so. So it's about legality, not unreal promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57661	Third correction, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57662	An incorrect set of allegations by fellow Cain is related to retroactiveness and time distances. I am the proposal of my colleague Cain, who probably did not read the guides 1.7 last year and refers to the current year and the income of 150 million kuna in the current year means that budget that was not even planned in the budget. And if the law and the rules of procedure had been respected, the idea of retroactiveness and time distances would have nothing to discuss today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57663	Thank you. For the SDP Club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57664	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to note that this is the third or fourth time we have discussed the problem of Croatian defenders in the late evening hours. Maybe it's an accident or maybe it isn't, but in any case, the truth can't be hidden. It is not the first time we have discussed this problem whether to pay the dividend obtained by privatising Croatian Telecom from the moment of the decision on the transfer of shares or from the moment of adoption of the Privatisation Act of the Croatian Telecom. As I understand this initiative by Mr. Jukic and HSP, I understand it in the sense that it was one occasion for the honour of the Government of Croatia to admit the mistake they made and thus to correct it, to correct this injustice against Croatian defenders and to make the 140 or 150 million kuna received from that dividend into a trust fund for Croatian defenders. However, as we can see, the majority of the congregation did not recognize this good will, and so we were given such a decision not to give a credible interpretation by calling for the conclusion that there is no doubt. Well, it seems that there really is no doubt because the MPs continued to interpret this legal provision one by reading the law I believe correctly and the other by reading it the way the government ordered them to read. The government appears to have made a decision on the basis of the 99th Law on Privatisation of Croatian Telecommunications. If we were to read this fundamental law, we could really come to this conclusion that the parliamentary majority is now forced to defend. However, it appears they dropped changes to the 2001 HT Privatisation Act where the following are clearly and loudly stated. It may be necessary to read one more time, which is the provision of Article 3(2), which says, that is, paragraph 1: "The dividend achieved on the basis of shares owned by the Republic of Croatia is the income of the state budget" which is not disputed. And Article 2 which is controversial for some: "Not income from the state budget dividend achieved by the transfer shares without compensation within the meaning of Article 2(1) of this Act" which otherwise speaks of the transfer of shares to Croatian defenders. The most interesting fact is, however, that these amendments to the law here in the Croatian Parliament in the old council were brought to me by consensus, with the active participation of the current Minister of Finance, Mr Shuker. And I think that HDZ has just insisted that this provision be introduced into the law on, in amendments to the Law on the privatisation of Croatian Telekom. And the Parliament majority accepted it. And now the fundamental question other than the return of these 140 million kunas to Croatian defenders is the question where does this salty mortal in the heads of the current parliamentary majority and government? How we interpret one thing when we're in opposition and when we come to power, we act like we didn't say it. It's not the first time. We know, from these benches we could hear that the Law on Defense passed in 2001 was bad. She accused the former government of not repeating everything. It's not a topic, I don't want to politicize. She's been accusing herself of a lot of things. But it continued not only then but now. A month ago on one of the Defence Committees, it was repeated by a member of the parliamentary majority. A member of the HDZ. That they've corrected all the injustices of the former government. Charged the SDP that he planted this cowardly egg, approximately like that. So if we planted it, then we planted it along with the current Minister Shuker. Here's the charge. Then let the government say, and this is our sin. We made a mistake, then we promised something to the Croatian defenders that we couldn't keep. We wanted to come to power. That was the first reason for all our promises. And now that we've seen what state the state is in, then charge again that it's our fault. Here's the 140 million kuna we can't find. That would be more moral. More acceptable. It's like this on a little door underneath, underneath the grain to play with the interpretation of something that's quite clear. Because it will turn out that we want it but we are not ready for such a policy-making way that we are now accusing you of playing Croatian defenders, that on the one hand you are giving and on the other hand you are taking these same Croatian defenders. That won't get us far. But it will remain this written fact and no one will be able to escape from it again for this 140, 150 million kuna debt to remain. And I warned you a year ago, let's not let that happen so that the debt stays, that we can make a discussion of this problem at all. Until the fourth year of office, then when some new government comes, no matter which, I believe it will be, that will make it a current opposition and then it will be,...... Here, then Mrs Babić-Petricevic, who smiled so sweetly and what about these 140 million kunas your 2001 law promised to Croatian defenders and we couldn't do it because Mr Boras misread this provision of the law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's what we're admitting. And now give back that 140, 150 million kuna. I can cut myself here that there's going to be some kind of debate. Along with associations of Croatian defenders, from whom is a good part of the silence that will also ask the question of what is this government doing? What's the new government doing? When will this 150 million kuna be returned? Well, I'm not saying it by heart. Well, that's what happened when the pensioners got their debt back. HDZ governments in the '90s took that money and then the bill came to the expense of the 2000 coalition government. And today we see how this problem is solved. So we wanted to avoid it, but it seems that we will continue to deal with this dividend problem even though I think I can also say on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club we will never behave the way HDZ behaved by manipulating Croatian defenders and manipulating this problem that is ahead of us. What is certainly coming is the further legal or judicial exorcision of this debt by the association of defenders from the Homeland War now, here is now the last moment that makes most of the management of the Croatian Defence Fund decide to take a stand to protect their interests and take certain steps or not to take. It's their right. Because the fact is that the government of the Croatian Democratic Community does not want to give this money from the remaining dividends to the Croatian Defence Fund. And there's the whole philosophy. There's the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57665	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57666	Thank you, Mr. President. The dignity of defenders, moaning, crying, treason and so forth. And now he won't give you the same things they said about topics that weren't material in nature, you know? They were, you took the defendants' dignity, justice, justice, justice, you will be judged and so forth. And you see now under the law that was passed on behalf of the Club Mr. Pancic here repeated it before the end and the mandate here is the same thing they say to you. They say the same thing. And there's the prime minister right. ... That's where it's changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They just won't give. But there's no 150 million kuna for defenders. Who stole the defenders? All defense attorneys and all of these have the right to sue a state that knowingly won't give them, not because it's in error, so he doesn't think it belongs to them. He won't give it to them. She gives them back their dignity but she won't give them the money. Well, look. Cell phones used to be used to get defenders to exercise their rights as quickly as possible. It was a parade in front of the cameras. And now the agent can't get to the secretary from the secretary. And the defense attorney has to bomb... that it may be accepted and heard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well done. Give these 150 million kunas back to the defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57667	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, and I must first say that the debate on Mr. Vlada Jukic's proposal is to give a credible interpretation of Article 3(2). The law on privatisation of Croatian telecommunications lasted two minutes. It lasted two minutes, because before that we spent all the time discussing a point that would now come to the agenda, meaning the credible interpretation of Article 9. And it's interesting now to listen to some MPs. In fact, against this position of the Committee, or a proposal for a decision by the Committee on Legislatives not to give a credible interpretation was just me. All HDZ and SDP have voted in favour of this decision, meaning no credible interpretation is given. I was the only one against it. I was the only one against it, but I'm saying Ingrid voted for what she's saying... No, no, Ingrid and Mr. Leco and Mr. Josipovic said, no, it's all legal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I had to explain to them as they raised their hand, had their hand in the air that in order to reject Mr. Jukic's request, not to give a credible interpretation, they were to explain the legal situation. And that's what's next, that's where the former government and this government made that mistake. The former government, which was technical at the time. Because we need to know that Article 3(2) is undeniably stated that this part of the shares belonging to the defenders is not the revenue of the state budget. However, Article 5 states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will establish a specific fund to transfer the shares referred to in Article 2(2), Article 1(1) of this Act. And that's what happened. It happened in 2003 when Mr. Pavle Kalinic and another HSS representative proposed the law that was passed. Therefore, this deadline has been running since September 2003, or since October, when the law was published in "The People's Newspaper" and this whole period is about the illegal conduct of the so-called "Nature Journal". the technical government which was at the time of the parliamentary elections held on 23 October 2003. Because this government only made this decision to transfer those 7% shares on February 17th 2005. So this is about that 150 million kuna. But it's interesting and the position of the Committee on Economy, me, and the committees and the government and the ministry that they say, the government has had, and that 150 million means invested, put into the state budget, so obviously it spent. Because it says that according to the Company Act, Article 167 paragraph 2 is prescribed that shares are regular, gives the holder the right to pay off part of the company's profits. But this is about the illegal owner, the owner who did not comply with the law, which is when the Fund Act was passed they automatically acquired legal conditions to transfer that part of the shares to the fund. And unfortunately, it was waiting here until February 2005. And it's interesting that we haven't been able to get a decision like that for a long time from the government to which it was passed. So the legal situation here is more than clear. This is about illegal conduct. Truth be told, that part was wanted, I don't know if Mr. Pancic was familiar with it, and the associations of an individual from the Homeland War. But normally, the Legislative Committee was unable to discuss their request, but it gave some opinion that everyone was in favour of both the HDZ and the SDP, except for me who was against the HSP, so legal opinion was given, so you do not have the right to ask for a credible interpretation, and according to Article 171, 172, only one who has the right to submit drafts of the law. And now I find it interesting to listen here to the discussion of the individuals who spoke on the Committee, and now they're saying the other. So, the legal thing is clear and it's obvious that this is where they're going to go to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57669	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57670	Oh, boy. What kind of stop is the court? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are you talking about? Of course we of the SDP were against making this decision. Because the law is clear. The law we passed is perfectly clear. It results in an obligation created at the time of the adoption of the law. Not the way the rulings now want to interpret it. And you can't go through this institute right now to come up with something that's perfectly, perfectly clear in law. But you said so, so the saying is, but you say often, not this time, you also said that, the former government and this government are guilty. And that's how you perform like the Messiah. And we have a few in the Parliament who are always holding power and opposition is just as undetectable in public. And that's how you see you create an illusion in the public that you're some kind of opposition, and you're basically always in favor of the ruling one. It's interesting here there won't be a decisive vote, but it's clear from your discussions, you know, otherwise. This is how you criticize everything, mostly all government moves, but neatly all fine, nice, together you vote, together you vote. So I repeat again, this is absolutely not about my individual debate and vote on the Committee. We're staying with it. The law is perfectly clear and should be applied. Or HDZ should pay back this money. 150 million kunas to the defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57671	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57672	Well, I'm glad to hear Mrs. Ingrid is telling us how we should vote. But listen, we decide how to vote on our own. We don't need your help here. I just wanted to remind you how you spoke at the committee session, and how you speak now. So be principled and consistent. And then I just said and I'm standing by it. That's what she was supposed to do first, so-called. Technical Government. Because we know that the Fund Act was passed at the last session before the 4th Assembly disbands. Right? Therefore, the obligation was both by the technical government and this government. No one else has fulfilled that obligation and I am legally speaking according to the law, as it says in the law. And that which ye say, as ye say, let men judge it. I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57673	Thank you. And the final review of the Committee's rapporteur, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, the respected representative of Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57674	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues of the Legislative Committee remain in the proposed solution, and what I particularly want to say in this final review is the following. The Committee on Legislatives, myself as its President and Vice-President Leko and the other members when we are given the task of entering into the spirit of the law into a wish what the legislator once wanted to say, and this cannot be clearly read, then we reach for the original text with the first proposal, with arguments, with discussions etc. etc. Using all these materials in preparation for the session, I did not find in the proposal for a law amending the Law on Croatian Telecom from 2001 or a dictionary on shares that would belong to Croatian defenders, on the fund, on dividends, etc. Not a letter. A heated debate has developed, some have asked that part of HT's shares belong to the defenders. The proponent opposed it in the debate, it asked HDZ to do so, then the opposition was found and a compromise was found which to God's defenders were given something so at least we of the Committee on Law ruled it out, in two provisions. In the provision of Article 2 of the provision which states that, in the provision of the article, only the moment we are interpreting, Article 3(2) which states that it is not the revenue of the state budget of the real share allocated for transfer without compensation, etc. There's no "no" in the nomotechnics. There's no description of what it isn't. The law says what it is. The real norm is this income belongs to the budget, Mark Mark Markovic, Janko Jankovic. This provision does not mean anything to us from the Committee on the Legislatives of fellow Members. It is some referring norm that may serve accountants to write this down, and in particular it does not mean anything because there is not a word of explanation in that necessary component of the bill, with the explanation of such a provision. There's no dictionary. This provision, in the light of the draft law, is not explained and reasoned. We of the Legislative Committee cannot interpret it in any other way than that it is a reference provision that does not speak of any rights, therefore, or declarative, etc. And if that were the case, we in the Legislative Committee have obtained a clear and unambiguous confirmation of this, because the same law in Article 5, paragraph 5, is that, which it says, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will establish a specific fund in which it will transfer the shares referred to in Article 2(1) of this Act with all relevant rights. According to us from the Legislative Committee, this clearly expressed the legislator's will that once in the future something will be done, that will be done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If the right will had been to transfer those shares to the fund and establish it, then this provision should have been set up by the Croatian Defence Fund, on the day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper" is considered to be established. The Government of Croatia is obliged to adopt the statutes and other acts of the Fund to register, register, etc. And this provision means nothing. She's profuturo saying something's gonna happen. And it was only when the current government established this fund and transferred shares and only from that moment on did this fund live as a legal person and only from that moment on can it create rights, have rights and obligations. This is the opinion of the Committee on Legislatives, and in this opinion, for this kind of reason, we were unanimous with the exception of what Mr. Pero Kovacevic said exactly, with the exception of the only member of the Committee on Legislatives, Pera Kovacevic. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57675	Thank you. There are several corrections to incorrect allegations. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57676	Well, I have more corrections to incorrect allegations, Mr. President, because I'm going to look back at two. First he says Mr. Boras that the debate was sharp, and it lasted only two minutes. I don't know how sharp she was, I was talking while others were coming out with their hand in the air. Second, about this part that these are referring norms. It's not a reference when they say it's not the revenue of the state budget. If there was no provision then it could have been made to be the revenue of the state budget. The constitution says everything is allowed which is not prohibited, and here it is forbidden because it says it is not the revenue of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57677	Thank you. Second correction by Honored Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57678	What to say after this show. I'm not a lawyer, I'm some kind of politician, but I guess this is the most specific interpretation of the law in Croatian history since the century 7. She says this provision means nothing, she's declarative, she's not talking about concrete rights, and our interpretation is only correct. Well, it would be good for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia if he doesn't like something, to start interpreting Croatian laws. I think it's really specific that this interpretation is not to use another term.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57679	Well, that's interpretation, interpretation of interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57680	It's incorrect that she doesn't mean anything, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57681	That's what to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57682	And it would be interesting to hear what you as an excellent lawyer think of what we just heard earlier, like this supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57683	I, unfortunately, cannot now express my opinion on the Rules of Procedure. And respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57684	So all this stuff that he said and explained to his colleague Boras, claiming it was a unanimous conclusion of the board, it's not true. Not only is it not true what you said, you said it, and there's nothing to add or subtract, I think that something like this is unique in such an interpretation. It would be very interesting to hear, or see how the defenders would accept that opinion, and I will not look back on it. I'm saying it's incorrect that we all voted unanimously in favour of your opinion. We were unanimous and that is, the argument, and that is correct, is true, when Kovačević says the debate lasted only two minutes. Well, it's not even true what you said about me saying there differently. We simply said both HDZ and SDP and others, you were in it persistently, but we agreed that you should not give an opinion. But for reasons that the law is clear, not because such provisions, as you say, do not produce any effects. That's a little bit of a concern, but that's another topic. It's not an correction of the allegations, it's an correction of something else that can't be corrected in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57685	5-minute debate for the HSP Club, respected representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57686	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, there are doubts about this proposal and there are two interpretations. According to one interpretation at the time of the transfer of shares, according to another interpretation at the time of the adoption of the law. Let's say that that doubt is, there is. It should be resolved by someone, I thought it would be resolved by the Croatian Parliament, but obviously it has nothing to do with it. But if we consider that the Committee's opinion is measurable and we look at October 14, 2005. The government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision on the transfer of shares. If we stick to it... The attack of the Committee's opinion then the stock and dividends for 2004, 3nd, 2nd and 1st could not appear in the Croatian Defence Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as we know, the Croatian Defence Fund received 104 million dividends for 2003 and received 134 million dividends for 2004. But the question is how can this be done if it is from the date of the decision. If it is in my opinion since the law was passed, then for all these four years the dividends were to be in the Croatian Defence Fund. Of course, we read the newspaper all of them, so we read, the representatives of the associations and said "we have agreed", but at the level of the Croatian Parliament, credible interpretation and compliance with the law in a transparent manner, and we cannot quite agree to verify here what is considered a political agreement, and it is a matter of explicit interpretation and implementation of the law. And that doubt, of course, remains and has an explanation for it. So we made a deal. Come on, we'll give you two years, two years we'll skip. It doesn't matter what the law says. I repeat, I submitted the proposal 1.7 last year. If you had respected the 15-day deadlines for the Committee and 15 for the Government, this issue would have been settled long ago. Of course, after a few months Croatian defenders received a certain portion of the money, if this proposal for credible interpretation was also an incentive, if it had any effect on the government to hurry, thank God, I am satisfied. But of course, we cannot skip this procedure and this was a correct warning to the government to do something and pay the money to the Croatian defenders. But not half as much as everything that belongs to them. Because if we have to stick to the law somewhere, it is here in the Croatian Parliament to avoid constitutional lawsuits and everything that follows, and probably follows a lot. The Committee's proposal does not give a credible interpretation. If we vote for nothing will happen, no money will come back. And if we vote against it, nothing will happen. So, in this formulation, the Legislative Committee's proposal no matter how we vote, there's no problem. There won't be consequences. So then we vote against, even if we formally show support for Croatian defenders, nothing will happen anyway, and the money will not come back and of course what has to happen will happen, which means legal consequences, lawsuits and all that follows negatively for the rightful person in the law does not want to respect Croatian defenders until the end. I say, in the end, I am surprised, after so much money invested in Croatian defenders and in their rights, this amount is minor compared to the billions invested. And it's completely illogical and unclear and there's no argument why and that small amount doesn't pay off and end that story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57687	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 3(2) The law on the privatisation of Croatian telecommunications in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives. I give the next decision to vote, no credible interpretation of Article 3(2) shall be given. The law on privatisation of Croatian telecommunications. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 74 votes for 10 abstentions and 16 against, the proposed decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57690	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, since it has been almost 19 hours I will also briefly inform you that the Committee on Legislatives held at the 58th session on 7 December 2005 considered the proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 9c in relation to Article 9a(4). Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 22 July 2005. The Legislative Committee did not consider this proposal for just 2 minutes, as we are the two previous ones, but now a broad debate has been divorced here. We have really discussed all the issues of resistance, all the open questions, all the concerns that arise from the doubts about how to apply certain provisions, or provisions, of this provision, which I referred to in Article 9c in relation to Article 9a, and the Committee has taken a majority of the votes proposed by this House not to give a credible interpretation of Article 9c in relation to Article 9a(4). Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. And in our explanation, we pointed out that it is estimated that the process of ensuring representation of members of national minorities in the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government is laid down in a transparent manner by the provisions of this Act, whose credible interpretation is proposed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Respecting the fundamental principles of the electoral system, the whole of this Act and the Constitutional Law on the Law of National Minorities, it is considered to be a fundamental failure to give a credible interpretation of those provisions. Here, that's the Committee's position. If there's any need, I'll call you back in the final review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57691	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone, the club's losing its word. HSP representative club, respected representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57692	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I am sorry that in this debate and this debate, Mr. Palaric, who made a proposal to the Government for a credible interpretation of this Act because this credible interpretation came from the complaint of the Club of Representatives of HDZ and HSP, the representatives of the Council of the County of Sisak-Moslavina because there was a case where we felt that it was illegal and that this kind of credible interpretation was required. However, we have pointed out that this credible interpretation or, if not credible interpretation, it is necessary to remove certain ambiguities related to the achievement of representation of representatives of national minorities in representative bodies of units of local, regional and regional self-government and what will happen at the time of the end of the term of office of individual members of the national minority if that representation is reached by the elections themselves. So one logical question arises whether someone wants to eliminate manipulations by such credible interpretations or amendments to the law or simply encourage manipulations that occur at a local level that we are all aware of and what we know. In particular, the number of members of national minorities in local self-government bodies as prescribed in Article 10(2) of this Act is if the elections do not achieve the appropriate representation of representatives of national minorities in the representative body of the local self-government units under the Constitutional Law, the number of members of the representative body of the units will only increase in cases where that representation is not reached in the elections. So, I don't see why the Legislative Committee said that this law is sufficient, as the Committee says, is sufficient to rule itself and it has determined precisely enough how the replacement of members of the council of representatives of national minorities will be arranged. Namely, I'll remind you a little bit more about what's actually going on in the field. The elected members of the national minority representatives in most cases are a Serb national minority and when elections are reached under the Constitutional Law, the quota of elected Serb national minority council members is then approached by manipulations that these elected Serb national minority council members, along with the suggestions of individual parties, are resigned, given seats in the headship, and replaced with representatives of Croats. We find it inadmissible, that it's immoral, that it's illegal, take it however you want, but at the very least it's manipulation. If someone thinks it's not manipulation, then forgive me, I don't know that what would be the will of the voters if, in one example, we had 15 councillors, so 7 council members of one coalition were elected, and 6 council members of the other coalition suddenly happened that 6 elected councillors of one coalition who won fewer terms in the election, 3 council members elected minorities resign and then complemented by 3 new and this minority, the minority in the elections becomes the majority and it actually forms power at the local level. So the intensity of councilmen's clubs that sought credible interpretation, who referred their complaints to the State Office for Local Self-Government and Management, please, it was not nice to reduce the rights of anyone or any national minority but simply to prevent these manipulations that I am now telling you about. However, why did the president of the Legislative Committee say that this topic did not last two minutes? I was present, it lasted a very long time, but it seems to me that there was no will, there was no political will to solve this problem, rather than to use this problem in a way of prolonging, and this problem will be the cause and I recommend to the representatives of the Serb national minority that this credible interpretation, i.e. the refusal of this credible interpretation, take advantage of the indemnity and, in some ways, of the unsaid use wherever and then simply in some counties, cities and municipalities can and now carry out the coups and I have already explained it with some colleagues and there is a fear of it, but we do not respond to the HSP club for possible manipulations which, after not accepting this credible interpretation, will happen in certain local environments. Unfortunately, I don't know why it waited almost 8 or 9 months for such a credible interpretation and that after 9 months here in the Assembly we simply reject it as unnecessary and that I have heard more and in the debate on the Committee on Legislatives that actually Parliament should not give credible interpretations, but that might even be a caselaw to prosecute and resolve, but if it isn't the Parliament as the most legislative body accordingly to bring credible interpretations then I wonder who it really is. I believe and I believe that the Parliament has the right to also adopt credible interpretations, and if credible interpretation does not solve the problem then we should go into amendments and additions to the law which will determine exactly how and how the representatives, elected representatives of the councils of national minorities will be replaced in case their mandate ceases whether by law or death force. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57693	Thank you. For the HSS club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57694	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here is another proposal from the Legislative Committee not to give a credible interpretation, this time Article 9c, in relation to Article 9a(4). Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. This time, however, the applicant of the proposal for a credible interpretation is not some opposition club of MPs, but is the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's stranger, these stranger things that require the interpretation of perfectly clear legal provisions whose credible interpretation of the will and desire of the government would change the law because credible interpretation has the power of law. The reason for the request for interpretation is the election results in Sisak-Moslavina County and the aim was without amending the law to create a legal basis for changing the will of voters who clearly said in the election of members of the Sisak-Moslavina County Assembly that they had had enough HDZ authorities and that they had given confidence in the coalition of SDP, HSS and other coalition parties. It is obvious that the voter's will did not coincide with the government's will and that legislative engineering needed to transform citizens' will and turn election losses into post-election winners. This change is not a specific instrument of the Sisak-Moslavina County. This became common after the 2005 elections in numerous municipalities and cities through various blackmail-to-purchasing methods, the government provided the executive authority of the political option it belongs to. The result is the contempt of citizens for politics at all, and the view of politics as something dirty, shameful and unworthy of the interest of honest citizens. The result is the increasing abstinence of citizens from going to the elections because they feel they are unnecessary, given that the will of political powers will change their will and will form an executive power that they did not want, but someone else wanted it. Well, the way to realize it or better to say it is also a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give a credible interpretation of what is clearly said. The cause and reason for the attempt is in an attempt to challenge the rights of the parties to determine who replaces the elected councilman in the event of his resignation. It is undeniable here that the SDP coalition list, the HSS, took part in the elections, with candidates from those parties. A number of council members have been elected as party candidates, not national minorities, based on the number of votes. The two council members shall resign and in accordance with Article 8(3) of the Law, which reads: "A member of the representative body elected on the coalition list of two or more political parties shall replace the unselected candidate from the list from which the member has been elected and appointed by the political party to whom a member of the representative body has ceased his term of office at the time of the election." The parties have appointed deputies and that's when there's actually a problem. By interpreting the elected councillors from the general party list, the Government wants to turn representatives of national minorities and limit the law given to the parties to freely decide on the loan. The government does not want to admit that elected councilmen are running for representatives of all citizens and not just national minorities. And then the government deliberately interferes with the grandmothers and frogs in order to completely change the will of the citizens expressed in the elections. For the purposes of the interpretation, only paragraph 2 of Article 9a shall apply. and this isolated and isolated from all other provisions, the Government wants to convince this House that a councilman elected on a general list who is a member of the national minority may, by chance, be replaced by only a member of the national minority. The reasoning of the proposal even states that it is the will of the legislator and the will of the legislator is quite different and it is explicitly referred to in Article 9c(3). which reads as follows: "Member of the minority representative body which has increased the number of members of the representative body in order to achieve representation of the national minority in accordance with the provisions of Article 9a. Paragraph 1 of this Act may only be replaced by a member of a national minority." Therefore, not all members of national minorities but only those who have increased the number of members of the representative body. In the case of the Council of Sisak-Moslavina County, it was not about increasing the number. It is obvious that the government has not read the entire law but only the part that could possibly change the will of the voters. Therefore, the explanation of the proposal is also unscathed but also unfounded when it states, I quote "that it was the legislator's will that a member of the representative body be replaced by a member of the national minority". This explanation shall only be missing in the case of a member who, by reason of national representation, has increased the number of members of the representative body. However, this is undeniable and, in addition, by confirming the existing legal provisions, it would not achieve the goal of seeking credible interpretation, and this is a change of power in Sisak-Moslavina County without a vote. Serious objections should be directed to a part of the members of the Constitution Committee who have been prepared by their interpretation without amending the law. It is fortunate that the conscience of the profession has prevailed and the motion for a decision has not been accepted. What he did not have the courage of the Constitutional Committee has been done by the Legislative Committee, proposing that no credible interpretation be given which the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party fully supports. The adoption of this proposal will most likely end the story of the executive government in Sisak-Moslavina County, but this case as well as the disbanding of representative bodies in Požega and Dubrovnik County and in the town of Velika Gorica will not correct the very poor perception of the ways of forming executive authority in numerous municipalities and cities. It seems that there has never been so much change in political uniforms and colors so far. The parties on whose lists were selected were changed and abandoned. Publicly speaking, buying, blackmail, threats, promises, and corruption. The authorities are silent, the issued parties are powerless and the citizens are bitter because they did not want such power. A number of local and regional self-government units have formed a government that the citizens in the elections said no, we will not. They rightly ask what is the government's obligation. In civilised and democratic states, it is an obligation to provide it with the authority that the citizens wanted. The government says it cannot prevent changes in the political uniforms of elected members of the representative bodies because the mandate belongs to the councilman. By means of a mandate belonging to council members who are not directly elected but who have been elected on the party lists, the authority shall be formed, which would mean that the power comes from the mandate. In Article 1(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states: "In the Republic of Croatia the power comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens." Article 3 of the same article says: "The people exercise power by electing their representatives and by direct decision.". The people chose their representatives by voting for the lists of parties offered to the people in this way by candidates as well as political programmes to be represented by the elected candidates. Citizens vote in favour of candidates, but also vote in favour of the political option represented by the party whose list they voted in favour of. But in the constitution of power, a gift is made. The elected members are leaving the political options of the parties on which the lists are selected. They support some other political options without the decision of the party's body whose candidates were. They're leaving promise days. The greatest rivals become allies, and in the nation there remains bitterness and belief that politics is something dirty that only the corrupt are dealing with. In which and in what way, what and how the citizens of Podgorica are thinking about when a councilwoman left a party whose candidate she was, supported the opposing political option, and for the award became President of the Council, with a fee of 680 kuna increasing to 2 and a half thousand kuna and that per month. She thus confirmed the truthfulness of her statement made before a number of witnesses that she was offered 50 thousand kuna for the transition. The price finally reached is even higher because in 4 years it will receive 90 thousand kuna more than its predecessor. Or what the citizens of the same community think of that councilman who supports the political option and then the branch of sewers changes direction and instead turns to the street where the councilman lives. What about politicians, politics and the importance of themselves and their roles as a choice of government thinks citizens of Slavonski Brod, Karlovac, Sisak, the municipalities of Gornji Bogicevci, Bebrina and a series of other units of local self-government where changes in political uniforms took place, followed by the appointment of relatives and friends to supervisory committees, chieftainships, city business directors, the employment of council members themselves, the payment of damages for physical damages and so on. Of course they think it's about the general trade of councilmen on their own behalf and for their own account everything under the cover of the national representatives who, from the people of the Constitution, should be created by power. It has absolutely nothing to do with the people, and the government is obliged to ensure the realization of the will of the people. If the term of office belongs to a councilman, then it is the only fair solution in the function of protecting the will of citizens as a source of government everywhere where there has been the formation of power based on the transition or support of political options without the decisions of party bodies that have been candidates to hold new elections that would show what kind of authority the people would like. Instead, the Government is giving us a proposal for a credible interpretation aimed at changing the legally elected power. It is good that this was opposed by the Legislative Committee whose proposal for a decision of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party accepts it as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57695	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57696	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Really too much, too much inaccuracy, too much inaccuracy to be able to fix everything in such a short time, but here's the quick one. It is incorrect that supporting this credible interpretation would lead to any change in government in Sisak-Moslavina County, as a respected colleague said. That's not true. It is incorrect because you are not well referred to that there has been an increase in the number of councilors in Sisak-Moslavina County, because according to the Statute 49 is members, and now it is behind you, on your knowledge 52. So there's been an increase, and that's why it's referred to the Assembly for this credible interpretation, not for someone to come to power by playing the voter's will as you claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57697	And another correction by respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57698	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57699	It's best with a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57700	Okay, thank you. Excuse me. I don't know what should be fixed because there really was a colleague named Lalić quite a bit of inaccuracy. First of all, I'm going to tell you it's not true that you keep saying that the voter's will has been played and that HDZ and HSP, without changing the law, want to come to power. There's something I need to tell you. HDZ and HSP received exactly half the mandate. And now I'm going to read to you the parties that have united against HDZ and the HSP, so you'll see how much that's the second half of the mandate of 49 council members. The list includes SDP, HSS, HNS, LS, SDA, SPH left alternatives, SDSS and HSS. They all got a second half of the term together. I appreciate so much the will of voters in Sisak-Moslavina County. A fellow trader corrected another inaccuracy. And it's not true that the number of councilmen has not been increased. There's been an increase in the number of councilmen. You obviously don't know how the constitutive session of the County Assembly ran. When the Mandate Commission submitted a report on the elections carried out The number of Serbian Nationalities councilors was sufficient. [[Good. Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-03-01-0.u57701	Thank you very much. Okay. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We interrupt the session now. We'll continue with point six tomorrow and further if we can get back to point one. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report if we have a quorum. Proposal for a decision on a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 9c. in respect of Article 9a. Article 2 Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next decision, no credible interpretation of Article 9c shall be given. in relation to Article 9a, Article 9a is replaced by the following: Article 2 Law on the selection of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 86 votes for 12 abstentions and 2 against the proposed decision has been made.
