ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61352	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the Croatian Party's Law Club on behalf of the workers of the tobacco factory Zagreb requires that the competent state bodies start to act according to the conclusions of this Croatian Parliament on the debate and conclusions on the conversion and privatisation because in the case of the conversion of TDR Zagreb there is an illegality according to the find of the State Audit. Therefore, I would also ask you, in terms of the implementation of the conclusions, to ask the relevant authorities to follow the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament and the findings of the State Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61353	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61354	On behalf of the SDP Club, I propose that today's debate on a set of health laws be postponed because these laws that are extremely important for patients, and therefore for other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, no agreement has been reached with the trade unions. Since we believe that the agreement with the trade unions on such changes is extremely important, we believe that the debate on this set of laws should be postponed until agreement is reached with the social partners. And on the other hand, I don't think it's necessary to ignore the fact that the trade unions have collected the signatures of about 300 thousand citizens who have also expressed their disagreement with such changes to the law, and therefore we feel once again that the debate should be postponed today and we should try to agree on key matters, so change in this law with the trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61355	With regard to this first proposal or initiative of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, some state bodies that have received the task agree to submit their TDR reports. With regard to this second proposal on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a proposal for a National Health Development Strategy came to the Assembly on 23 March 2006 through 2011. The following day, on 24 March, was included in the agenda without objection, without objections and with this proposal for a National Health Development Strategy in 2006 to 2011 together with this set of first-reading laws and with a proposal for legislation that earlier legislators put in the procedure. In the last part of the session, 68 votes in favour, 16 against and one abstention to hold a united debate on the National Health Development Strategy proposal together with these points of 2 and 8. I received union representatives today who also handed me a petition on health and pension reform with 333 thousand 768 signatures. However, this strategy is included in the agenda. These bill proposals are included. I cannot delay my decision or my will to delay the debate on this proposal, on this set of draft laws until we reach agreement on, with the trade unions on these proposals. So I'm having this debate, these are the draft laws that are included in the agenda in the first reading. I'm having this debate, what's she gonna do, what's the outcome of this debate? What's her score going to be? Whether these laws will be adopted or not will be adopted will be decided by the Croatian Parliament by its decisions, by its vote and by its decisions. But moving the debate, moving the debate, delaying the debate on this set of laws proposed by the SDP MPs club, has initiated that the debate on the first reading of these drafts of the law be postponed by the end of the established agenda, not prejudged what the proposal would clearly be on those laws in the first reading could not be done. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We propose that, in any case, a re-vote be held on the inclusion of points 1 to 8 on the agenda, and particularly on the National Health Development Strategy proposal. Our second proposal is to discuss first the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of healthcare submitted by HNS and HSS representatives because in this interpretation is primarily a recording of the situation and the proposal that should be done in order to achieve a better solution in the overall health system? It is very unusual to discuss a package of laws and a strategy that should go through the parliamentary procedure, and only after the interpolation of government work has been included. So we suggest that the point that is included under regular number 9 be item number 1 and that we hold a vote on points 1 to 8 whether to be included in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61357	With regard to this proposal for a re-vote on inclusion in the agenda, you are proposing to re-vote these points from 2 to 8 whether... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] From 1 to 8 to vote again on whether to stay or not in the agenda? Right? SDP club respected representative Ivica Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61358	Mr. President, health care is important to all people of this country. It would be extremely important to try to make a deal with the unions. You may not be able to extend the debate to that end, but the Parliament could, by its majority, prolong the debate. It's not the first time we've had a discussion about a situation like this. Is it about whether there's political will or not? I hope there is a political will to try such an important problem on the agenda with agreement and with the unions. That's why I'm proposing a prolonging debate on these agenda points. If you can't do it and I think you can do it, I suggest the Parliament report on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61359	Re-proposal for pro-longing the debate. With regard to this first proposal presented by the respected representative, Pecek, in relation to the position of the HSS Club's proposal to vote again on the inclusion in the agenda. That's not possible. Once voted, it was decided that those points were included in the agenda. I cannot put on the vote again to debate and vote on whether or not they will be included in the agenda. You in the SDP are proposing to postpone the debate on one to eight or to remove it from the agenda. Postponing the debate. To get off the agenda. Okay. So he takes off first, then he postpones or what? ... Yeah. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] If there's no political will to take it off then. Okay. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that points one to eight obviously are included in the agenda of this session by the majority of the votes in Parliament, I call on the Prime Minister Ljubicic's representative to withdraw the government's strategy and legislative proposals from the procedure so that they can get time to agree with both the unions as social partners and with professional professional associations that have also informed this Parliament that they cannot take responsibility for the consequences of health reforms. Both the second reason and as President of the Parliament and the Head of the session, you have the right and the possibility to establish according to the Rules of Procedure the order of the points that we will discuss and we suggest that we start with point nine relating to the proposal for impeletion on the work of the Government, given that it is the subject of the government's work so far, especially the government's programme. So, the basis that would allow, I am sure that this debate will improve the quality of the health reform documents when the government re-proposes the Parliament. So, Mr. President, I urge you to start at point nine, and let Minister Ljubicic take this package of governmental billing and strategy out of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61361	Okay. So, you're suggesting whether the minister withdraws these bill proposals from the procedure, and that the same as MP Pacek to discuss the government's interpretation, the health system, insurance before the others. HDZ representative club, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61362	Well, Mr. President, since we've heard here different proposals that come down to delaying the debate or taking off the HDZ Club agenda, ask a half-hour break to agree on it and take its views on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61363	HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61364	Mr President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement I would also suggest that this debate be postponed or if you wish to hold this debate to be treated as a previous procedure, as a previous debate. Therefore, we have enough time to reconcile our views with our social partners. We're also looking for a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61365	Honorable representative Damir Cain. IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61366	There is nothing left for us but to ask for a 30 minute break, although I seriously think that opportunities are so serious in Croatian health that there should be no need to extend anything but that 30 days alone should be discussed and after these discussions, the ministry should commit to putting up with the new National Strategy for the Development of Health of the Republic of Croatia in the period 2006 to 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61367	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. The HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61368	Please, on behalf of the HSS Club, take a break as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61369	HSP, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61370	On behalf of the club, half an hour's rest, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61371	Yeah, but not to you. I'm not you. I'm Mr. Zeljko Pavlica on behalf of my club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61372	So thank you very much. We're also looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61373	Okay. And respected representative Zlatko Kramaric on behalf of the HSLS Club. You'll do it again, please, because you've made it quite loud.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61374	I would ask you to calm down these colleagues who are very happy, and this is a very serious topic that my colleague Cain says and indeed requires a monthly debate. Also on behalf of the HSLS Club, a half-hour break. I thought for 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61375	And respected representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61376	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, we're looking for a break of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61377	Okay. And he's still looking for the SDP club. Honorable representative of Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61378	Maybe it's not enough for half an hour, but we're also joining our colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. We're looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61379	It's a 30-minute stop. It's 9:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61380	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. As you know, clubs have requested a break to consult on these proposals we have heard since this morning and the first on behalf of the HDZ Club is Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61381	... /The speaker away from the microphone./... colleagues and colleagues we discussed the proposals that were proposed here this morning and we believe that the laws were long enough in the public debate, over a month and a half, because in this public debate there were very good remarks, a total of more than 50 subjects made their remarks in this public debate. Over a hundred stands were held. We also believe that the law goes into two readings enough time to discuss one more time between the two readings and that one consensus is reached on this important social topic in this House of Commons. Therefore, we believe that there is a foundation and that this debate should be conducted, that this debate should be depolitised, that it must bring benefits to our patient, our insurance company, our health care provider. That this debate in which we can decide in a democratic procedure whether it is previous or whether it is the first reading must be in any case a discussion of the profession, less politics, a debate of knowledge, less ignorance. All the subjects have been consulted in the procedure so far. On the parent board were really wide layers presented from interested sick associations to chambers, etc. Many experts worked on the bill. In almost two months of public debates, all those who wanted to participate here and perhaps it is time to say both about trade unions and this petition. So it is not customary for signatures to be collected at the time of the public debate, but rather for constructive proposals to be made at the time of the public debate. Mr. North has made several suggestions and as I have seen a good part of these proposals have been accepted. Therefore, there is no room for this debate to be postponed, the more I repeat this package of laws, and it is clear that it has neither abolished nor envisioned the abolition of any social benefit of any citizen of this country. We remain protected chronic patients, remain protected socially at risk, and we save the drug market which when I have more time on behalf of the club I will explain, has come into a very dangerous situation. A number of other improvements are also being made, and any delay in the debate would go on, leading to a mill for those who do not want well, not those who want a good insurance and a patient. So we propose that the debate be conducted, that it be constructive, that everyone contributes and that the proposing accepts the most important proposals and remarks and all discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61382	Sir, on behalf of the club, I asked you to plead with me on the proposal that this be a previous debate or something, so I'd like to ask your opinion on that as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61383	I said the debate should be conducted. We can discuss whether it will be previous or eventually end up as the first reading. It's our suggestion to end up as a first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61384	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Retirement Party club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61385	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. And so last Friday, when we ended up voting, and when we decided on uniting these points of the agenda, we suggested that we do the same thing, we suggested that the previous procedure be carried out, that is, the previous debate, this allows us to do Article 131. The Rules of Procedure, and today we reiterate this proposal because the proposal can be given by the authorised legislator at the session itself, and the previous debate can be held at the session itself, the plenary session of the Assembly. We believe that the health care system should be discussed, because health care reform according to our information, and that is what we have sounded at a public forum in Istria that we held on April 3rd, and I will talk about the effects of that debate later on in the club's name. So the assessment is that health reform is at least five years late. However, the issue is how health reform should be discussed and what is the procedure. It has been assessed, and we are assessing that national strategy needs to be discussed first, and it is agreed on and then discussed in the package of all the laws that are proposed because the national strategy gives us the framework for the development of the health system over the next five or ten years depends on our ambitions to project it. In Croatia, we pensioners' foreigners swallowed the dumpling in July 2005 neither guilty nor due, when they are willing to do most of the parliamentary majority, and contrary to the Croatian Party of pensioners' will to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act and an administrative fee introduced, and as a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health I asked for a debate on the effects of the same in the health system, however, I still did not get it today. Has she helped and saved health care so much since these amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act have been made by ultra-emergency procedure. We from the Croatian Pensions Party are looking for a meaningful, targeted, comprehensive debate on the national strategy priority with the aim of achieving a social, professional, political and civil consensus on the development and functioning of the health system. What is the situation now at this point we are aware in Croatia of the pensioners' dissatisfaction with the profession, that dissatisfied social partners, and these social partners have swallowed a lot of reforms over the past 15 years which is not good for them, and it is not good for civil society as a whole, are dissatisfied users and without a precise projection of the goal which and how in 5 or 10 years this debate will make no sense to us. We appreciate our proposal to conduct a previous debate with a useful and acceptable nature. Finally, trade unions did not agree to a national strategy or to amendments to the law. The Croatian medical chamber is being fenced, the Croatian dental chamber has not seen their position on either national strategy or with changes and additions to the entire package of laws. As political partners, we took note of the government's intention to reform what was then called health reform. I see that the ambitions of reform have made it a little bit different. We propose to decide now and at this point before the debate is opened whether this will be treated as a previous debate and then to continue the debate. We consider this a useful proposal to know what we are on, and also to the purpose of what Mr Hebrang said, in order to depoliticalise this debate, it is necessary to treat this as a previous debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61386	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61387	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament and Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Unlike those who demand a delay in the discussion of the IDS club, the opinion is that health opportunities are so complex, so complex, so ungrateful that they don't need to run away from the debate. However, if we want to strengthen Parliament's position, the Parliament should discuss this, on the basis of this debate, the government should offer us a new strategy. Croatia, we all agree it has great doctors, but the system is ahead of the financial breakdown. What's going on? The total expenditure in 2005 was €16.2 billion, revenues of €14.7 billion. We are latently missing a billion to 2 billion kuna a year, and this strategy, for example, for this year, which proposes 300 million kuna savings, does not solve anything. That the system goes to hell is also seen by the fact that in 2004, in the gross product we had health care participation of 7.6%, 2005. 7.3%, 2006 is planned 6.9%, 2008. 6.1%. So the growth of gross social product can no longer compensate for these expected reductions and health savings. General hospitals are gentlemen down, obligations are made by the state, local self-government has to deal with them. I also thought that it was a timely mistake to reduce the contribution to health insurance from 16% to 15% because this shifted 4 billion kunas, 2 billion in the development of truth, but 2 billion kunas remained in the pockets of individuals. I'm saying all of this, gentlemen, because just these days, one of my family members is in one very, very, very serious operating procedure and these opportunities as many as I can for months as I can in some way like a patient, and I assure you that every citizen of this country, especially those people, would be happy to single out 0.5 or 1% more of the opportunities in health are stabilised and in so many ways, and keeping in mind that 100,000 people every day knock on some office and these people and higher than them, they expect the Assembly to discuss health issues, but that based on the taste of our discussions, the ministry offers a new strategy, and that this debate is seen as a previous debate. In particular, the Mandatory Health Insurance Act should be amended which will further divide our society into those who have and those who do not and will not be able to be treated anymore. If I have to go somewhere, I agree with everyone, to reach a consensus, it's health care, and even when it comes to separations because without money there's no happiness, but there's no health as opportunities at this point and without money we know nothing revolutionary will be solved. So you need to reroute a way of funding between state and local self-government and general hospitals, introduce a kind of decentralisation in the field of health, but what is most important is to give hope to patients especially those poorest that they will not be the only one damaged by this health reform. So we need to discuss, we don't need to run away from the debate because the unions are looking for it and we need to clearly ask the minister for a new strategy. It is certain, we are all aware of the irrationality in that health system from Pula further, that I do not speak, but where it is not, but it will not be able to resolve the Parliament. So this should be a previous strategy, and as far as what we are offered is clear that IDS will not vote as we will not vote in this Health Protection Act, but surely this matter should be discussed today because it is still too late for those people who expect concrete healthcare.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61388	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is obvious that it would be necessary in today's package of the Health Act in which there are as many as 8 points to include another additional point called the Euthanasia Act because health care is in a coma, health care is connected to appliances, the brain is clearly out of function, this strategy that has been in front of us, and artificial oxygen and artificial food has been receiving healthcare for a long time. Should we declare health care dead and exclude it from the apparatus depends exactly on what legal proposals we are going to adopt here in the Assembly, but on what we are going to discuss today, especially with the Health Protection Act, mandatory and voluntary health insurance and health insurance at work. These legislative proposals, together with the Health Development Strategy until 2011, are not compatible with the programme of work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which we heard here in the Parliament in 12 months 2003, and are equally incompatible with budgetary policies both for this year and for 2007 and 2008 that we also discussed here in the Parliament. The HSS is against increasing citizens' participation, now citizens are participating somewhere at 20.62%, and according to these proposals, the participation would exceed 30%. We're against profits on citizens' health. Health care rights are reduced and treatment costs are clearly transferred to patients. It's a bad suggestion, a proposal that's not for first reading. We can eventually agree here to make this a previous debate. Because if we're going to argue in our first reading, we're going to act on further loss generation. Obviously, we're going to go back in quality because I don't see anything new in quality here and we're going to get patient dissatisfaction and so is the dissatisfaction of a doctor. I remind you that the Medical Chamber has made objections to this package and over 60 objections are not respected in this alleged public debate that preceded the inclusion of the law in the parliamentary procedure. We at the HSS Club suggest that we discuss first the interpretation of the work of the government in the field of health. That would make sense. We suggest that this strategy is withdrawn or that it goes to work and I say, possibly, consider the possibility to hold a previous debate on the package of laws. If the trade unions are against it, if they're doctors, if it's obvious against it, most clubs here in the Parliament would be just pro-forma. That's why I suggest that if we can't reach a consensus in public already and obviously we couldn't at least here in the Parliament, we MPs reach a consensus to respect the opinion of 330,000 people who put the signature on and said that it would not be good for us here in the Parliament to discuss such proposals that are ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61390	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61391	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! The HSP club advocates discussing this package as in the previous debate. Why? Because I have before me the latest public research that is empty for the health system. Namely, the current health system is dissatisfied with over 50% of Croatian citizens. Only 14% are satisfied with the current health system. Furthermore, over 43% of Croatian citizens think that the last few years system is back and this applies to both the former and the current government, and 38% thinks, so over 43% thinks the health situation is worse and worse and 38% thinks it's as bad as it used to be. Therefore, the issue of health reform cannot be discussed as a party issue but must be discussed from the point of view of Croatian citizens and from the point of view of the profession. Furthermore, the fact that more than 50% of Croatian citizens think that this reform is only about saving. Furthermore, the position of the HSP Club and the expert team as well as with relevant institutions from other countries dealing with healthcare that it is realistic to expect that the current proposals, which we need to discuss, will cause further dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens, inadequate savings and deepened debt of the health system, a setback in the existing quality and availability of medicines and new therapies. Namely, health reform has started through drug reform only, but so that these people are essential to the reform, which is the availability of medicines and new treatments, is being kicked out of the health insurance system, which reduces availability and let alone improves. Non-transparently defines what is not in line with the effective health systems in the world and with the requirements for harmonising our legislation in the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union. Therefore, we cannot discuss this as party issues such as impelations and everything else. Let's make sure that it runs this part and we implement the reform in stages, so that Croatian citizens see that effective results are achieved from one stage to the other and not that it ends up even worse again, means further dissatisfaction with Croatian citizens. So let's not fight party and political today, but let's make it a profession to say what needs to be done in this system and not argue over all of this, and I will deliver more detailed results to this latest public research during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61392	Thank you very much. On behalf of the PGS Club, SBHS Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61393	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen! So, on behalf of the PGS Club, the SBH, let the IMF state our position on the fate of these bill proposals and on the health strategy. Our proposal is therefore to withdraw these laws and not to discuss them today, except for the interpretation of which we could discuss the very problem of health care, and in particular we appeal to the inclusion of health insurance laws in today's debate, these three laws submitted by SDP, PGS, SBS and IMF and the Croatian People's Party because they are problematic. They are trying to solve a current problem and this is a problem of travel costs for patients and disabled people. As you know, this law, therefore, was unfortunately limited to the possibility of this right to travel costs of more than 100 kilometers, so today still after six months of application of this law, many of our patients and disabled children are deprived of this right and simply some of them because they themselves have to bear the costs of giving up treatment, giving up therapy, which we think is inadmissible and which we think is particularly unacceptable when it comes to laws that treat health care and health insurance. Two are important reasons why we are in order for these laws to be removed from the agenda, strategy and following the laws. The first to not reach agreement between social and professional partners and we have heard today that these laws are opposed by both trade unions and patients, and doctors and citizens themselves. The union, therefore, warns that after a signed petition signed by more than 300 thousand workers, unions warn that the proposals do not comply with the unions, i.e. that the Ministry of Health and Social Care simply violated the October 2005 agreement on the establishment of a Health Reform Working Group, which will be attended by one representative of trade unions and employers. In addition, this reform and these accompanying laws are opposed by associations of patients who warn about the trend of narrowing the rights of patients who have specifically escalated this Regulation on the abolition of travel rights up to 100 km and the Office on Administrative Taxation. They also warn that the announced health reform endangers poor and sick and even severely ill and disabled children. We have heard here that the reform itself is opposed by doctors, i.e. The Croatian Medical Chamber which says: "The Council of the Medical Chamber is fully built on the National Health Strategy and, in particular, on the proposed package of laws and their negative consequences, leading to the collapse of a health system that has further generation of losses, a return to quality and growing dissatisfaction of patients and doctors. And there are our citizens, we heard just before, so there was a survey. More than 50% of them think that the state wants to reform health care solely because of the lack of money. So we don't think these are the conditions in which these laws, which could actually be discussed, because I think the debate and this broad must have been carried out much, much earlier and much, much more quality, therefore, than it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61394	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61395	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps this is actually a unique opportunity to introduce perhaps some new customs in the conduct of Croatia, in the Croatian Parliament. You actually seem to me, I do, I've been in Parliament for a long time I don't have that need or custom to talk about things that, which are very important to discuss for a long time. In Germany, I don't know, the budget debate is almost all year round. So I also think that this one, and the debate on health care actually deserves not to have the problem of prolonging, of delaying, of thinking that something will then be solved by itself. Someone here has said and it is true that this, indeed, this problem of every citizen of this country is tanging. Sooner or later. You just can't get away from it. The condition is said critically, in a coma, we heard that health care is in a coma and then it seems to me that some of the suggestions that actually diagnosed it are then saying, "Okay." We're in a coma or cancer, but, I don't know, we're gonna deal with it, we're only gonna deal with the problem that tells us that we're getting a little bit of pressure up. I don't think that's a good approach. That it should be maintained, that I should say introduce these new customs. It is a previous reading that all of us, in some way, would show that there is also our political sensitivity that we do not just miss this topic and that we simply try to achieve this full political consensus because we all say it, but I'm afraid then we are using this topic for these political purposes and then we are saying that, I don't know, reforms, strategies are good or bad, but I'm afraid it won't help the citizens of this country. Is it also unclear what this means for a public debate? Here they say that the public debate that it was then again we have that, that the social, or partners who were to participate that they were not very happy with it until the end. Obviously, we need to change certain habits here, too. I don't know why not work in Parliament and "hearing" to come, that we have people here from time to time who are going to be in really delicate and important topics that we will be able to listen to and in some way help us make the right decisions. On the other hand, all companies that want to be responsible, who want to be serious and who really want to be democratic never treat health and education as a cost, and that is why companies that care, who take care of their own democratic legitimacy, are insisting on solving health and education problems. That's, I've said it many times in previous terms. The famous Nobelan "Sean" has just written in his book "Development as Democracy", "Freedom Like, Freedom as Development" has just insisted on solving health and education-related problems. So I would also like to ask that this previous reading be held here, that we do not run away from this problem. To try to achieve this consensus right now to see what we really want, what kind of health care we want, and that is how we demonstrate this and our social sensitivity exactly isn't being shared with us as we are in front of each of our citizens and on that segment, and then we create a health care that will only be for the rich, and where one large part of our population will actually leave it, to the system that obviously doesn't work very well. Therefore, here is the HSLS Club joining those who believe this should have been a previous debate. And just to point out that last Friday, in Zagreb, this restored school, this national health "Andrija Stampar" was reopened. If we are indeed, we have a tradition called, which is called this very great man who in some way is a pioneer in this area of national health, then I think it would be very good to use these, some of these experiences and be those schools that will offer us this National Strategy, and that politics alone knows how to recognize and articulate and convert it into legal parameters. Thank you. [[That's right, that's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61396	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Vojislav Stanimirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61397	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party considers this Health Law package as well as the National Health Strategy for the next 5 years necessary to go into debate but only as a previous debate. We feel that this debate is necessary and that we may already be late with it today and therefore it is necessary to discuss it in this House of Commons. On this matter, which can be called strategic matter, it is necessary, in our opinion, to agree views with the social partners as well as with professional organisations, primarily chambers which, according to the letters we have received, are being restricted from this strategy. Our interest is and would have to be of interest to this House to bring maximum possible and maximum good solutions for doctors, dentists and other medical professionals so that they are good especially for healthcare users that means for patients. We have so far had cases in the Republic of Croatia that we see today in France what happens when laws are passed in parliaments, and they do not agree with stakeholders. In order to avoid such situations, we believe that this debate should go but extremely as previous reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61398	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Ivica Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61399	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We know very well that in every country the topic of health is one of the most fundamental topics that requires always seriousness. In Croatia especially given the acute state of health and I think it is therefore very important that we come before the Croatian Parliament as a proposal. That the state of health is seriously known, that the dissatisfaction of people with this condition is even greater, we also know that some things are getting worse starting with non-payment, health loss, and that the level of health care for most people except for those who can pay, of course, are rich, so they can pay health care otherwise we also know that. We are aware of these situations and we think that serious changes in health care are necessary. We think we need to do a lot of things to sort out the health system as a whole, because the problems in the functioning of this system are evident. However, we cannot accept that the problems are being resolved in a partial manner and in a way that reduces the rights of patients or increases the prices of health services. What I also want to stress is that we have proposed and we are still proposing that the Government's proposals be removed from the agenda in an effort to try to bring these proposals in line with the opinions and views of the social partners. Yes, it would be very good if in the Croatian Parliament it could succeed in achieving such a topic of political consensus, but it is not possible unless there is an adequate effort to reach this consensus, consensus comes between the social partners. And as we see in the views on that side, we see that there is no consensus, we also see assessments that are very difficult, which is that social dialogue is even played, and if anywhere here I agree with someone who has already mentioned it, a good social dialogue and a good agreement would be needed as a consequence of this social dialogue. Then it's no doubt in health care. I think it concerns both the fact and the assessment of the professional associations themselves that their views in the design of the strategy and the bill are also ignored. I can understand the government's interest. It's speed, but at this last stage. But I don't think it can be the behaviour of the highest representative body of Croatian citizens, because when the most representative body of Croatian citizens, this Croatian Parliament receives a petition of over 330 000 citizens he cannot ignore these same citizens, because it is very important what he tells them. I'm closing up. So, we're for taking off the agenda of the government's proposal. If, however, most think it is necessary, that a previous debate is needed, we will resort to it. But I am then warning this previous debate cannot be professional but complete, among other things, political. Then the question is, what are we going to discuss, whether the government's proposals or the state of health and those who insist on the previous debate then mean that they must also accept these rules of the game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61400	Thank you very much. We have another club. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61401	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the National Strategy for Health Development until 2011, 4 of the Government's legislative proposals and 3 of the opposition proposals that are trying to correct several of the bad solutions that this government has proposed and this parliamentary majority has accepted two years ago. The ninth point is the impelation of government work so far in the last 26 months. It is interesting that the text of interpretation in its contents to President Parliament did not like for 14 days, so we had to change it so long until the Government's package came into procedure to create a business being able to discuss the same day or one behind the other. But we're going to discuss the interpretation before or after this package. What does the government ask of us today? To be arbiters. The Croatian Medical Chamber wrote to us that the Croatian Medical Chamber is being built on all the consequences that its healthcare system, patients and healthcare professionals will have for the Croatian society in 2006-2011 and health laws, as well as the gap between their content. The position on the Medical Chamber was adopted on 31 March this year. So, a professional, Czech association says it does not want to share responsibility for the future of Croatian health care on the basis of these proposals. The unions warn us, however, the proposals are not in line with the unions. So, representatives of working and retirement interests, and the social dialogue that the prime minister says has no alternative, which is true, is just a mechanism that comes to harmonised solutions that is the fundamental difference between formal and real social dialogue. Suggestions if adopted are written by trade unions for healthcare users in the near future mean only one thing – greater health rights will be given to citizens who can buy them. And the third is this model for which private health interests lobby, including pharmaceutical houses, insurance companies. And who in this House will lobby for Croatian citizens asking us unions? 333,000 citizens of this country signed a petition asking the government not to make this decision. How many times have we asked the government to write the position of the Economic and Social Council in the light of the law which was the subject of the debate on the Economic and Social Council? Again, not in any law anything about it. If, therefore, no one in this country is satisfied with the reform offered, on whose behalf it is proposed, by the World Bank, by the IMF or by someone third. And if the ruling party does not wish to reach consensus with the opposition in this House, make at least an effort to make such an agreement with the social partners and the profession and then come before us and ask that if and then it is not possible to reach that agreement. We offer, therefore, and I offered the minister to withdraw these proposals from the procedure and thus allow for additional time. If the government does not intend to withdraw these proposals from the procedure, we can only debate these documents as a previous debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61402	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia, the delegation of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the President Saeima Ingrídre and I ask that we warmly welcome it together with the members of the delegation. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] We are, all the clubs, ten clubs have come forward to discuss what to do with these proposals. It was from the proposals that went into it to decide whether this was the first reading or the previous debate in progress and at the end of the debate. It was to open only a previous debate. It was to be discussed without delay on behalf of the IDS. There were possible discussions, but first the interpretation. There was a proposal to reopen the previous debate on the state of health, to discuss measures and laws in stages, it was HSP. To discuss interpretation and strategy, it was PGS, SBH and MDS. It was Mr. Kramaric's previous debate. A debate is needed, says Mr. Stanimirovic, but as a previous debate. Mr Racan that it is a desirable consensus, social consensus and political consensus, but it needs social, broad social dialogue. And Mr. Lesar, that is, to withdraw, the laws are withdrawn from the procedure, and that a previous debate may be held. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, no one here has disputed the need to discuss this important issue. And as some club representatives have said, there is no need for political conflict on these crucial issues of health and health reform. As Mr. Racan and others have said, a social and political consensus is desirable. If it started with a public debate that lasted months, two days, if a lot of these professional, scientific, trade unions and these various professional associations were involved, if, in fact, there were unions, someone like this, someone, someone, someone in the health care community, was also different about it, it is obvious that there is a need to finally get into this difficult problem. So I think it takes a strategy to discuss, to discuss these laws, to invite everyone to a critical, constructive debate on every aspect of this problem. We will then decide in the Parliament, if we estimate that it is mature to be the first reading then we will vote whether it is the first reading, or we will conclude that we consider this debate a previous debate. In either case, we can't lose if we invite everyone to a broad discussion about it. And preferably to pursue social and political consensus, including all those who are interested, because there is space both politically and time on all elements and if you want and timing first, second reading while it is being discussed, or previously, and then first, second reading. There's plenty of time. And I don't think we should waste any further on procedural issues here any further time, but to go to the debate on, as the Parliament has concluded, the strategy, about these points that we've said. The next item was the interpretation of the state of health, that the discussions of the legislators of the individual laws would be 20 minutes. If you think it's small, then make it more, but it'll be 20 minutes before anything can be said. That clubs also discuss 15 minutes, if you think it's a little 15 minutes to make it 20 minutes. That's where I think we can work it out. And it will obviously be necessary and to extend the debate on this, because as you can see, we have twice extended the debate of this session, not because we wanted to, but because the agenda was such that we couldn't overcome it in this time. So my proposal is that without a firm, firm view, whether it's a first reading or a previous debate, we start this debate and eventually decide, in accordance with what is being said here and whose arguments are in this regard, as I would say, clearer and stronger and ultimately take a stand. In order for us not to discuss it again, we have adopted the agenda and I suggest that we move to the 1st point of the agenda - Proposal for a National Health Development Strategy 2006. - 2011 and to discuss two, three, four, five, six, seven and eight within this point. Mr. Hrelja, here you go. I'm just asking you not to do it again, we heard it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61403	Mr. Vice President, you don't think I'd suggest something that I don't think makes sense, or that it wouldn't be useful to do and not fit right now. We believe that the mature conditions are that this is treated as a previous debate, and I ask you before the debate opens that democratically as Mr Hebrang said, it is decided by this House because we are now at this opportunity, not later, to decide now. If you do not want us to vote now, I ask you to call on the extended Presidency and agree and take a unique position precisely for the reason Mr Hebrang was saying, that this debate would be depolitised, because it longs to be depolitic if we are to talk long-term health in the interests of our citizens and health care as a notion of people's health rather than just as financial components of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61404	Thank you. I understand. This House took a view on the fact that these points were placed on the agenda, that they would be discussed as we did on the last Friday, that they would be in the first reading, and this is what the Parliament concluded. However, on the proposal of many clubs, including HDZ, an open question has been left to discuss, based on what we are going to say here today, perhaps tomorrow, that in the end we conclude, and how we will conclude in advance what we are going to say. So then we can figure out if it's a previous debate or if it's a first reading. If we're gonna reopen this now, we're gonna have to re-invoke clubs. But I have no authority here to change anything to what the Parliament has concluded the other day when it has declared itself, but I have to suggest that in the course of the debate or at the end of the debate on these issues, a final, final position is taken whether it is a previous debate or a first reading. Here you go, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61405	Well, I don't think it's a good idea for Mr. Vice President for us to vote here and that we should go in the direction of the previous debate. The previous debate is neither reading, first reading, or second reading, nor final reading. The previous debate, as has been said here today, is in some way strengthening parliamentaryism, new practice, a previous debate would also be respecting the petition of 300 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's certainly the interest of every patient of ours. So with the previous debate, we don't outvote ourselves, we don't raise anyone, we change parliamentary customs in some way, we take responsibility for health care, and hopefully he takes care of patients, and so much Mr. President, if we want to get out of this stalemate situation, let this be treated by a previous debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61406	Mr. Pacek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61407	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, you made a very unusual proposal to initiate the debate without knowing how we started it. If we start an emergency hearing, we know what she's wearing. If that's the first reading, we also know what that means. Likewise, if the previous debate is like a softer form according to this package of laws, and I believe it is the best attitude, because both patients and citizens and all of us would like to finally start solving this issue. But apparently most of me would say almost all clubs consider the best variant to be a previous debate. So I'm asking you before we start the debate, to decide how we discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61408	Thank you very much. Vice President, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like... to extend this debate, but I think it was obvious from what the clubs said, that absolutely everyone, all the clubs were for the best case scenario, or even to take off the agenda, but at the best for the previous debate except for the HDZ club that he thought could be discussed in the first reading, and eventually eventually to decide. But since absolutely all clubs have declared themselves to be at best a previous debate except one, I think it is obvious that the previous debate is the most we can hold, and logically it is quite different debate in the first reading concerning the objections to the laws, and the debate, the previous debate relates somewhat to the whole context of health care. So quite differently-oriented previous debate and first reading, so please respect what everyone but one club is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61410	Thank you very much. Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it is evident that there are topics that really exceed party policy where it really does not make sense to bid on issues relating to citizens' standards. I really suggest calling up an extended session of the Presidency and making a decision on how we're going to work, because this way we can do rotations every half hour and plead on behalf of the clubs. Look at the time, so we won't open the debate. I'd like a session of the Bureau of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61412	So, if we want to clearly testify that we are not up to any policies but that we are having a responsible and serious debate about this important social and political and any other issue, then I suggest that point 1 to 8 be declared by the previous debate and that we finally begin the debate, because we will best come up with this in one way that will not create some conflicts and so on. It's going to get into things. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61413	On behalf of our club as legislators, so who was talking about travel expenses, it is our suggestion that these laws be done to allow people to get the right to travel expenses as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61414	Please be nice, if the previous debate is no-one's mind-blowing and when it's in the first reading of the debate, let alone as a previous debate. Which is why we would now waste time again to process something if one can hear the opinions of all clubs, all parties, and for first reading suggest better text or improved text as well as for final adoption. I don't see any reason, I think we've done it here, and now we can always answer the word, I think. I am opening a preliminary debate on the item 1 to 8 of the agenda that we have already adopted. I think that's clear now. Does Mr. Secretary want to? Proposal for a National Health Development Strategy 2006 – 2011, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, First Reading, First Reading, Club of the SDP, Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act first reading, Proposer of PGS Club, SBS and MDS and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health Insurance, First Reading P.Z. 409th, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. The proposed Strategy is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. In the adoption of the Strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law apply, the discussions were conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. And you received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. Minister Dr. Neven Ljubicic, Minister of Health, Social Services. Here you go. Please give your opinion and explanation of the other points that are subject to the agenda, in addition to the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61415	Here's Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So here I think this is a nice start, it started with a consensus, and of course I don't mind starting with a previous debate because this is also an indicator for our Croatian people who want a better one, and that means we have a consensus on what several MPs here have spoken very clearly. I would like to say because this is where we mentioned health reform and I would like to make a clear distinction between health reform and strategy. Health reform is something here as it says, which practically started with the Croatian state, began with its independence. Health reform has practically gone according to governments, so it has been proposed in different strategies since '93. The year, '98. In 2000, and of course, this government also wants to propose its strategy as a continuation of a united joint reform. So it's a health development strategy in the five-year period in 2006-2011, and why is it related to this, let's call it a package of laws? Well precisely because we have both been given a clear task in conversations and social partners or everyone else, we want united, we want together and we want a single package that will practically have everything that the Croatian people in the field of health need. What I would like to say to begin by designing this strategy, which practically started in early 2004, we have done a detailed analysis of the situation. I'm going to be honest right now, and so both in front of the public and in front of you that the databases we've been available with have been extremely difficult. You know what it means to make a database for each hospital separately, what does it mean to make a database for each group of our patients separately? It's a great ladies and gentlemen's job and it's all finally reconciled and in some way getting away with world solutions, and that's exactly the answer for those who say, and why you're late. We're not late, but we wanted to make a mature and clever statement of what we're about to present today. In December 2005, together with the social partners, and you will remember this, there was a conclusion that practically wants a comprehensive and complete solution. In January 2006 after the first presentation of what we want and how we want the social partners have clearly said reform is going in the right direction. In February, on February 17th, we begin a public debate. On the website of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, virtually all laws have been published together with the National Health Development Strategy. That's when the unions back up. At the second meeting of the Economic Social Council, and I want... Tons and some falses to read clearly the conclusions made by the Economic Social Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I quote: "The Economic Social Council supports the National Health Strategy proposal for the period 2006 to 2011 by setting out the objectives, deadlines, holders and implementation control measures in detail." Thus, the Economic Social Council fully supported the National Strategy. I quote further: "The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Employers' Association supports the reference to the first reading of the reform documents package. The opinion of the representatives of the trade union has been set out, which does not support the reference of the laws in question in the follow-up procedure, but is the view that it is necessary to adopt the National Health Strategy before." And finally, after the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, until the final draft of those laws, further harmonisation of the views on certain issues in these documents will continue through the tripartite working group on health reform. I think this clearly, ladies and gentlemen, is saying that social dialogue comes first, that it continues, and that what we are here today is a continuation of public debate. I will also make it clear this moment that we have received more than 50 different remarks, opinions, observations, not only in legal acts but also on the national strategy, and that we have practically more than 60% of very high-quality solutions and accepted. And it is not true that we do not have the support of relevant chambers, I will say that we have clear and unconditional support and Croatian dental chambers written and therefore Croatian medical chambers, Croatian chambers of nurses. True, the Croatian medical chamber did not give its consent. Why? Because we couldn't adopt certain things they proposed, which were related to work outside full-time, which were tied up to put the Chamber above the Ministry of Health and Social Care and to decide directly on certain things. That's what the ladies and gentlemen couldn't accept. But there's something else I want to say. We have clear support for those I have to admit here are certainly the most important and these are the support of the Association of Patients, the support of the associations of dialysis, transplanted, I don't have to explain which association, the Sanus Association. It's an association of parents and children suffering from malignant tumors. We have the support of the Leukemia Association, the lymphomas here from the neighborhood, which is where individual parliamentary representatives are coming from, who were already at the beginning negatively talking about this whole thing. Or, for example, we actually have the support of laryngectomy patients who themselves have several tens of thousands. So this clearly says how broad the public debate we've actually started is and it's just saying that we need a national consensus and I think we're very close to it. Of course, the basic question is why we have now given a strategy, what we want to achieve with this strategy and we will not run away from problems and difficulties in the system. They're more than clear than large separations, I think actually there's someone very clearly mentioned it, from an inappropriate way of funding within the system, primarily indistinguishable, from one irrational consumption. I want to make it clear here. There's no savings in health care. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot be spared at the expense of health and health care, it's impossible. But rationalization, spending with reason is something else, and those two concepts can't really intertwine with each other. Finally, the problem of preserving and improving quality. At this point we are all actually talking about a quality system in different segments, but in health care such a system is not yet organised and not clear. And finally what we want is an improvement in the organization of the system. I'm not saying we have bad systems. In fact, I also praised him in December last year at the first informal meeting of the European Union ministers where Croatia first came with the right to vote and then I met therefore members of the European Union what our system looks like. It is quality and good but in some segments it needs to be absolutely improved to make it even more effective, to be even better. When we talk about big separations here is listed if I'm not wrong and that's where the decision is to reduce the personal income of each employee, so a working person to 15% of the personal income. Here, here you can clearly see where the Croatian ladies and gentlemen are in partnership with other countries in transition. We're right at the top. Croatia currently singles out 15% of every personal income of every citizen who works, one who starts his life, who has two or three small children, who wants an apartment, who wants to do something in life. The only ones who are actually steaming us is Hungary with 14%, and I'm going to say that they're seriously thinking about reducing that part. Most of the European countries that have defined themselves for this system, therefore the solidarity system or the original Bismark principle is below 12%. I'm not talking about a huge burden on the economy that's 9% of gross social product. At this point in Europe, the transition countries stand out about 6.5% and highly developed European countries about 8.5%. However, this is not really such a problem. The biggest problem is practically how within the existing satisfy and strengthen the system and make it more efficient. And many who aren't in it seem impossible, I forgive them because they're not in it and they don't know it, but that's why you have to ask those who know so they'll learn. Unsuitable way of funding, I will make it clear that this part was proposed in a 2000 document that the former government proposed as a proposal for a strategy and a plan for reforming the health and health insurance system of the Republic of Croatia by 2003. She didn't. That's what we should do. It's something that's actually absolutely at this point one of the priorities and that doesn't mean any law-cuffing and I'm actually going to say something more about it later. It's indistinguishable to form hospital budgets. Right now, of course, this is causing a problem in the liquidity of hospitals and ultimately extremely large waiting lists in certain segments. Secondly, the problem of chieftains in primary health care, the problem of financing primary health care. So why is this model not able to give the doctor the primary health care function that you should have, which is the function of the doorkeeper, so the one who practically decides about the patient himself. Unreal consumption stems from the loss of the role of general medicine. Of course, then there's increased pressure on specialist medicine. And these are the data that we ladies and gentlemen have clearly shown several times. So, every third patient practically leaves for general family medicine and not because general family medicine is not a quality but because we have not given adequate mechanisms to control that system. Finally, the irrational use of drugs is something that I must admit we are in the grip of both 2004 and 2005 and we continue in this direction but also uncontrollably introducing new often and expensive procedures without clear evidence of effectiveness. At this point, how anyone remembers and it's actually the rest of me saying the former system can introduce some method without actually having a clear control mechanism. So what is extremely significant is the problem of preserving quality. When we say that, then we say how to enable the system to be sustainable, that it can develop and within the existing financial framework. Of course, it means suppressing and irrational drug consumption and, of course, suppressing what we often have and it's a long-term treatment. And that's exactly why this problem is, and it's an insufficient system organization, of course, it's insufficient capacities of space and equipment. I'm going to say, the average age of equipment in early 2004 must admit that it was therefore a shameful picture, but should be said here as a clear indication of the age of that equipment was extremely high. Some X-ray machines were practically over 30 years old. They were already examples for the museum, they were not subsectically renewed. 30% of our hospitals' capacity is still 19th century. These are all inadmissible items. Furthermore, the lack of medical staff particularly in the middle professional section is a very current problem but also different specialists, which I was talking about at the end of the line the other day on World Health Day, which is dedicated to healthcare professionals here for the year. And what's extremely significant and that's unbalanced territorial coverage, something that you and I have to deal with together. What are the basic settings of the National Health Development Strategy and why we took the first five-year period. Well, because we can make it happen. Because these are key vital problems to be tackled immediately. And that's why we put in a five-year period, a short-term period. What are we trying to accomplish? Financial stabilisation of the sustainable system. Why? So that the system could continue to develop normally. To monitor all modern technologies. Modern methods. To have new medicines within the system, and not as they were done 3, 4 years ago or more when certain medicines were put aside, the patient was denied. The patient was deprived, they could not get it, and all the countries in the environment practically had those preparations. It's inadmissible, ladies and gentlemen. It doesn't mean system development. The second is to improve the efficiency of the system in providing services. Standardization. We need today to standardize every procedure that exists. If any method is done regardless of whether it is Pula, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Virovitica, Čakovec, Osijek, no matter whether it is Pula, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Virovitica, Čakovec, Osijek, the procedures must be standardised. Strengthening the primary health care system, I was actually talking about it. Strengthening preventive activities. It's a sad piece of information. From 1990 to 2003, the decline of systematic checks by more than 70%. Hungary, Austria, Italy, not to count now, Finland. They can't even hear us up there. They've got national early detection programs all over the tumor. What's up, Croatia? No national program. Is the time for such a national programme? Absolutely is. In this year, which we have made clear to our citizens we are starting with a national early breast cancer programme, and in the following year we are also starting with a colon. That's our bond. And finally something called politerntriism and standardisation of entire hospitals, or what we like to say is categorization of accreditation. The experiences that we draw from both Ireland and Great Britain have clearly shown from a whole series of different countries that no matter what four and a half million of us are able to function if we have only one center of excellence. We can't. And it's clear he can't. It's just a plug. And that's why all these other countries were taught... And all we have to do is learn from them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Go, talk and read. Know the minimum language and go actually talk to these people and collect certain experiences. Their experiences have clearly shown that one center cannot function. No matter what four and a half million of us. And that is why, in this National Health Development Strategy, we propose the development of polycentrism, the development of centres that are closely linked to both major universities and medical schools. So that's something they're going to say at the end of the line, which is supported by certain reviewers, and there were three of them, all of them. Two foreign, one domestic, these National Health Development Strategies. How exactly are we going to do that? Financial stabilisation sustainability of the system is a change in funding mode. We need to change the way hospitals themselves are financed by introducing a unique system like Austria, Italy, Slovenia, which is so-called. So a model that pays by diagnosis. Not on a single bed. What we're interested in, ladies and gentlemen, is paying for what we're doing with a patient. So active approach. As regards the financing of primary health care, again experience of countries that have identical systems like us, who have had problems with such indistinguishable chieftains among the doctors of general family medicine where such chieftains have led to an inefficient system. So that's the second step that needs to be realized. Restructure the Croatian Health Insurance Institute as a national insurance company. From Germany, Slovenia and all countries that hold to democracy but hold to decentralisation because the prerequisite to make quality decentralisation is to restructure the national insurance house, which is in Croatia the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and therefore move away from the practical reach of the executive authority. And that's exactly what one of the models we're proposing is in this package of laws. Finally changing the policy of medicines that I'm going to say a little bit more about later. Improving the efficiency of the system in providing services. So re-enhancing the primary health care system as a doorkeeper, as a "gate cyper". Information. The information is now in agreement and the basis for the hospital system competition is what I was talking about if I'm not mistaken in the "Current Clock". On 1 June we begin with a project of informing general family medicine 2600 offices. It's a big step, a very difficult item, but we want to make it. The final specialisation programme according to the European Union guidelines. Far from our specialists being wrong or inadequately educated. No, I don't. So as soon as they cross our borders, they practically stay and recognize, and there is no doubt about it at all. But where's the problem? We want to compare ourselves with other European Union countries in standards and in those programmes that actually exist. It means that we would actually do it then clearly that we have to change those programs. I have also talked about strengthening preventive activities in practice about categorisation, accreditation of hospitals or the development of polycentrism. Can we move on? As a basic basis, therefore, I repeat to the National Health Development Strategy practically four different acts which are therefore fully in line with what we have written in the National Strategy. And I repeat again this is the basis for further development, or for the implementation of a national strategy. It is a law on compulsory health insurance, voluntary health insurance, health insurance protection at work, and here I will actually make it clear that this is a law that has the full support of the Economic and Social Council because the Economic and Social Council has received two different proposals for consideration. They chose this proposal themselves. And at the end of the line on the Committee, therefore to the parent committee, on the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Care, this law was actually supported by both employers and union representatives. And finally, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which actually solves a whole series of practical problems and creates assumptions for the implementation of the national strategy. One of the most important things, I must be honest that I am proud of it is that we want to set up the Croatian Health Insurance Institute as a national insurance house. Until now, the Bureau has been run by the Administrative Council. The board of directors has appointed a government. We are now proposing clearly that the Institute is managed by a practical assembly, and that the Assembly is represented by regional, regional self-government. The administrative council, we can move on, will be practically the executive body of the congregation. So the Assembly now elects a board of directors where we have clearly proposed this administrative council in order to make it two representatives of the insurance company so that the recipient of the service is one of the active insurance companies, one as a representative of the pensioners, two representatives of the service providers. So, two health workers. Two representatives from the Ministry of Health, one from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and finally three representatives of the Economic and Social Council. This structure of the Governing Council absolutely guarantees that the Croatian Institute is isolated from the Executive Authority, which means actually depolitisation of the segment. What I said in the opening words, we can go on, hear and I must admit that as a man and a doctor, it hit me very hard, and that's when it's said that we're about to make a restriction on the rights of our citizens and it's simply not true. I want to make it clear here that although I said that health reform has practically started with the draft Croatian state that we have not followed the strategies proposed by the government, for example. I will read a brief proposal for a strategy and a plan for reforming the former government's health system, I repeat the former government, which has made it clear in its palette to introduce a system of incentives for participation that will stimulate rational use of healthcare. Also, where they have clearly said that it is important to introduce additional sources of funding in Croatia, which will consist of an increased proportion of participation by patients, thus ensuring a mixed model. Right now, ladies and gentlemen, there are no basic preconditions for this. We can't talk at a time when a million and a hundred thousand of our citizens earn less than 1,500 kuna. Let's add 900 to that and some thousands of kids. Well, it's a number that just represents people who have been released from payments, i.e. participations, and in this context, we don't want to get into this socially sensitive problem. And although they did, and I'm going to do it again, because here's the document from practically the former government asking for it, we can't accept it. Is one day going to get a precondition for that with the rise of our pensions, with the rise of our salaries. It may be, but it's something that leaves perspective. The basketball service that has been discussed very much remains virtually identical. Why does it remain identical? A basketball service, and, of course, those who do it will know that. It can be solved in two ways, so you tell the citizens what they can and can't or can't actually open that path and say health is important for everyone we want to have absolutely everything inside. This second principle we want why, because for health we said it was a kind of social category and that there must be no division between those who have and those who do not have because the right to health is right for everyone. In other words, once again the right to health care remains the same as before, they do not change, and still remains freed two and a half million citizens. What we really want to change is the supplementary insurance system. How do we want to change it? Additional insurance will remain within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute system, will remain a shelf for 50 and 80 kuna. They will continue to cover hospital treatment, and specialist-consular health care, therefore visits by specialists in hospitals and orthopaedic aids. The only thing extra insurance won't apply to is drugs. Why? Because the drugs, we're the only country in Europe that's going to have a list of free drugs. So, medications that will be available to everyone, for all diseases without any participation, without any extra charge. And that is why this supplementary insurance that remains in the Croatian Health Insurance Office is practically not covered by medicines. And why did we leave it inside HZZO? We left it for one simple reason, because by seizing out and the possibility of additional insurance on the market we wanted to control that insurance that would come out on the market. Teached by the experiences of other countries, especially the transition countries, where, with the rapid extraction of supplementary insurance, there were uncontrollable prices and very high policy prices. We want to control this system exactly that way to leave additional insurance inside the HZZO. As far as the drug policy is concerned, the drug policy is actually going to be such that we're going to have one list. So it's not true that the list will be shortened so that some of the drugs won't be or anything like that. No, only if we have, ladies and gentlemen, two identical drugs, one in the red box, the other in the blue box. Red's more expensive, and blue's cheaper. I repeat, this is an identical drug. So we'll pay this cheaper one then, and that's something that they've done to all the other countries and our environments, but still the way in which we'll make all the drugs available, but of course always look for the one that's cheaper. Because I repeat it is an identical drug, an identical substance. If someone wants this one with the red box, then of course they'll have to pay for it. We can move on. And so this is the cost of transport. We do not want to go back to partial solutions, but we have therefore finally proposed a complete solution. Why did we propose such a solution? The circles of our hospitals practically close at 40 km, and that's something that the World Health Organization prescribed and those who worked those hospitals did not work in a verse, but they did them with a specific intention, which means that 40 km of circles are being closed, and that's why this provision within 40 km. Of course, for all those up to 18, but not only for them, but also for those living on islands, living in mountainous and mountainous areas or in areas of particular national interest. Practically, the right to compensation for transport costs will be independent of the number of kilometers and we think that such a complete solution is absolute and quality. We can move on. Thinking, and that's what matters most to us about the interest of patients, patients, and let's not identify those two concepts we've given you anything else. For the first time in the law, we made it clear that if a form of health care cannot be achieved within a certain period of time, or a patient can do a search elsewhere, so primarily when I say so, I mean the private sector by having the funds refunded. I think this is actually an extremely significant and huge step for our patients, but also for establishing actually quality and better efficiency of work, and thus of course also shortening the waiting list. A few more words about extra insurance. This is a display, as you can see the structures of the voluntary, i.e. basic insurance structure in the European Union and Croatia. We want to comply in legislation with the European Union, and in this context we want to have the same scheme as the basic and complementary and complementary insurance that we have, and you will allow me, to translate it into basic supplementary, or additional insurance. We can move on. At this point, the supplementary health insurance is incorporated within the basic health insurance system. We'll leave that model. So, once again, the shelves remain for 50 and 80 kuna. They cover everything but drugs, because the drugs will be completely free. But also, please continue, we have made it possible to extract supplementary and additional insurance in the form of voluntary health insurance on the market. And that's something that we're fully harmonising, and I have to admit that ladies and gentlemen already indirectly, even though it's not entirely legal and it exists. What does that mean? This means that one good part of our insurance houses is practically already running this policy and has practically voluntary health insurance. And even some of them advertised it in the press. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It can go any further. We can move on. As far as the law is concerned, it can go on one more time, the Health Protection Act, so I'm going to say the basic changes that are absolutely the result so that from a practical point of view we improve some things and make a prerequisite for implementing a national strategy. First, we have clearly defined factors that threaten people's lives and health. Well, it is unacceptable that all the countries of the European Union and around the world have defined factors that threaten human health, and we do not. I think the time has come to make it absolutely clear and say it. Of course, the founder's responsibility for the health care institution's obligations is something that we practically transposed from the Law on Institutions, here just a little bit strengthened. Why? Because we absolutely want to take that segment out, because I think it's necessary. As well as the responsibility of the director of financial operations of the health institution, we have strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, it's easy to actually play some principal, but it's not just a commitment, it's a big, big responsibility. Founding a home of health on islands. Islands are practically our specificity and absolutely must be paid more attention. Here I want to make one more specific clear, and that is to prevent conflicts of public and private interest in performing health activities. And that means that that provision that is related to work outside full-time has practically been lifted. We only refer to the specifics that exist in the Act of Labour. We can move on. What is a major contribution is the draft bill on health insurance for health care at work. I'll repeat again, a law that was fully supported by both trade unions and employers. Here, in fact, we can move on, here we clearly said that health insurance at work will be implemented, of course organised on the principle of compulsory health insurance, but also on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. The whole project will be owned by the Croatian Institute for Health Safety at Work. He will also be formed with his board of directors. It will be organized with its central and regional units, and in fact it is only that one quantity of workers who is now in the Croatian Health Insurance Office is allocated to the future office. What's important to say, we can go on, is that incompetence for work will go by the grade as you see here, means specialist in medicine work as first-degree, Institute of Medicine as second-degree, with the solution of the future institute. In doing so, professional control of the entire system will be carried out by the Croatian Institute for Labour Medicine. In other words, there will be no new employment here, but what is important is that finally, a system of medical work, or a health care system for health care at work will finally work, and not be redirected as so far to the mandatory health insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61416	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61417	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's claim that "The right to health care doesn't change.". That's not true, Mr. Minister. Declaratively, they don't change. Indeed certain structures of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are abolished. They're being abolished because I can't pay the administrative fee. They're being abolished because I can't pay the travel expenses. And that's exactly what the petition I gave you in the current class at the time confirmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61418	Thank you. As regards the proposal for a Law on Health Insurance Supplements, Bill No 410 proposed the SDP Representatives' Club. On behalf of the promoter of the club, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61419	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On 9 December last year, our club referred to the procedure of the draft Act supplementing the Health Insurance Act according to an emergency procedure. However, the emergency procedure was removed when entering the agenda. With these amendments, we are actually intervened in that part of the law relating to the refund of transport costs, so on Article 40 of the existing Health Insurance Act. In a way that we suggest that Article 40 supplement the new paragraph 3 which will address the problem of compensation or restructuring of travel costs for persons under the age of 18. Thus, they would have the right to compensation for the costs of transport if, for the purpose of using health care, they were sent outside the place of residence, or residence, regardless of the distance of the contracted medical institution or the office of the contract doctor of private practice. Why did we propose that? Namely, on the last day of the session in the spring part of the session in July 2005, two amendments to the Health Insurance Act were made which are important for patients. The first concerned the introduction of an administrative fee that can be cumulatively up to 30 kuna per month. On the other hand, such an important financial change applied precisely to the costs of transport which, in the previous law, were refunded at a distance of more than 30 km, so that this July amendment would be abolished and the possibility of a cost refund was introduced only after 100 km away. In short, I will also say the chronology of how such a change has been proposed in the existing Health Insurance Act. We have already warned of problems that may arise in passing this law, but the majority of parliament voted for these amendments to the Health Insurance Act. Many parents reported to us, especially parents of children who continuously use therapy and travel to hospital institutions that were already more than 40 kilometers away, but at this point less than 100 kilometers away. That's how our proposal is actually initiated by the appeal of parents of such children. They were particularly agile parents from Međimurje County who organised themselves in the "Smile" association and very persistently sought to amend such a text of the law that was adopted. What was the height of these costs? We received information from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance that in 2004, more than 202 million kuna were paid for the purpose of transporting patients. However, when it comes to this category of patients, therefore, these children were 1,617 children in the period from 1.1 to 30.9.2005, so at the time of the law’s entry into force, 2 million and 715 thousand kuna were paid for. It should be said that in this figure of 1,617 children, for whom parents used a refund of transport costs, there are a large number of children who have used these treatments in just one period, therefore not continuously, and there have been different fractures or the like. while about 400 children, after about 400 children in Croatia who use continuous therapy, are then less from month to month throughout the year. So this is one such procedure without looking at which, which is the most affected, we've actually saved neither 3 million or about 3 million kuna. We tried to warn this problem by asking parliamentary questions on the current morning. So we first asked the Prime Minister 21.9.2005 when this law had not yet entered into force, what it would do for this category of patients, or sick children. Then he answered that he knew the problem, that they were collecting data, and when the data was collected, we were thinking about how we were going to solve it. However, time passed, nothing was resolved, so the health minister's written inquiry answered us that he could not solve this problem since the parliament passed such a law and practically transferred all responsibility to Parliament. We once again asked Mr. Sanader if he had come up with something to solve this problem, but he then moved the ball to the fact that the state of health is difficult and that a full reform is being prepared, etc. etc. So even in the 11th month, we didn't get an answer on how it would work out. But the parents were very persistent. They asked for talks at all possible institutions, from the President of the Republic who naturally supported them in principle, but there was also a conversation at the Ministry of Health with the minister who then told them something similar. as well as in our written answer to the question that there is currently nothing to be done because the law is what it is, but they are also thinking of establishing a foundation that, from which these and other health costs would be paid. But, of course, parents have understood this in a way that they want to be given some charity rather than dealing with the rights of them and their children. That was the reason that in early December we gave in the procedure such an amendment to the law that I was here in the introduction and exposing. However, since the law was on the agenda, we could not get the government's opinion, so the law could not go into debate for this procedural reason. We have again sought response through the Institute of Current Morning and 27.2. Again, we are getting the answer which now states that the Government is in the making of a number of laws that will regulate this area and right then through this response from the Ministry, that is to say, we are getting this very definition that is now proposed in the new Mandatory Health Insurance Act and included in this text that we propose in Article 53. Mandatory health insurance laws. And only two more sentences about the government's opinion. So we sent this bill on December 9th 2005 to get the government's opinion after four months, on April 5th of this year, which, of course, says it does not accept such a bill, although it accepts it at the end of the line because it included such a formulation in the bill, one of the laws that we are discussing today. We think it is not good when certain amendments to the law are passed on to the nose, when there are no consequences for certain categories of citizens, especially if they are children, and in such a way they are almost prevented from being treated. We have information that a number of parents, precisely because of the difficult financial situation in the family, had to give up continued therapy, and so they stopped treatment. We think that during this period when we have frequently pointed to this problem, the Government should react more promptly because if we are still discussing these changes today they can come into effect somewhere in the middle of the year, and then the question is how many children will have to give up the treatment until the end of the 6th month or half of the 7th month until Parliament is in session. We therefore propose that the Government accept such changes by proposing them in its proposed legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61420	Thank you. An identical Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act has a PGS Representatives' Club, SBHS, MDS. On behalf of the promoter, Honored Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61421	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. So, as you heard from our PGS club, SBH, MDS, came out with its proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act with the intention of returning the right to return travel expenses and those who use the right to health care that they use within 100 kilometers, in our proposal it is therefore for all those who use this right more than 30 kilometers away from the place of residence. But at first, we also express our dissatisfaction that both these three laws and SDPs and our and our HNS are addressed to the parliamentary procedure as previous readings, because we think that this article should have been changed, and so it is only one article of the law in such a way that these people would have come to situations that were before, which is that they could have been paid back travel expenses because travel costs over one month are bought and amounted to some thousand, thousand 600, and up to 2 thousand kuna, some of which is a huge amount of money, some of which is actually one pay, and therefore it is a question of the possibility of treatment, walking to treatment or walking on various exercises, which is particularly necessary for children, especially for children with developmental difficulties, because it is therefore their development. And the examples we have and the examples we have heard, we have heard them for the past months. This law was adopted in the 7th month of 18 July 2005 with effect from 1 October 2005. So we said that he caused great difficulties to a certain part of our population. The various associations responded to this, so the patient associations say that travel costs are not even paid for severely ill children, i.e. They warn that this is how patients’ rights are narrowed down, so the law on October 1st, and thus endangers the rights of the poorest and the sickest and even severely ill children. They took to their press conference also an example of a family living with two other school children in Drežna, a town near Plitvice Lakes, and which because of this very reason the Law cannot make up for the costs of transportation to a pediatrician or a therapist in Karlovac because they are 80 kilometers away, and HZZO covers only travel expenses for transport over 100 kilometers, so under the current law, it is a 10-month-old girl who was born without eyes with severe chromos mupatia. The parents therefore drive or drive twice a week for treatment in Karlovac and twice a week in Zagreb, which was about a thousand and 600 kuna per month. They point out, therefore, that they are not social cases because the husband works as a teacher, but given all the costs that await them soon they won't be far away, so I can't pay those travel expenses. The president of the Association of Patients in the area gave reporters the response of Health Minister Neven Ljubicic to the case of a girl who was delivered last night and to a group of patients, and the news since 7.12.2005. It reminds the minister that according to the amendments to the Vuckovic Family Health Insurance Act, the cost of transport to Karlovac cannot be realised and is now quoted by the minister himself, i.e. its letter to ensure the costs of that situation. The Ministry doesn't... A valid law rather than come up with a solution to help the parents of children in the most recent future, and all patients will be informed in due time, so it says in a letter from Minister Ljubicic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, to this day, this has not been resolved, there have been some suggestions that the foundation will be established, but neither has this been achieved, even though the foundation itself would not be the right solution. We also have similar cases in other parts of our country, county and region, so we have an example that only 5 kilometers divides parents, 60 small patients of the Polyclinic Golden Cekin, children with special needs of a written order for travel expenses. Namely, from Požega to Slavonski Brod, where Poliklinika is located, there are 95 kilometers, which twice a week have to be passed by parents of a two-and-a-half-year-old girl with initial cerebral palsy. Therefore, since they have not crossed that 100 - mile [100 km] threshold, they do not have the right to recover travel expenses. Mrs. Zgrebec thus spoke of the example here also from Međimurje County, the same is true in Krapina-Zagorje County where the same parents of children must now pay what they did not pay before, so that their physically disabled children if they want to be taken to therapy at the Varazdin spa, so only such physical therapy is being performed in spas. They can do it today, but with great difficulty, with great financial investment, and some of them unfortunately are what is worst and gave up driving children to these treatments. So we think this law is bad and needs to be changed as soon as possible. So here it is said that he will now go into previous reading, that he is just waiting for him first, so second reading, so it is two more, up to three months for which time parents and patients cannot use the right to travel expenses as they had before. We therefore believe that in this way it is damaged, that the principles of health policy which speak of mandatory accessibility, mandatory justice, mandatory efficiency are thus violated. So we think that if we want our health care system to work, we need to adhere strictly to these principles. And the ministry itself warns of certain problems that are in this, some long-term perhaps measures that should be applied in its strategy materials. It is also noted that it remains the impression that quantitatively and qualitatively observing the institutions of territorial health care are excessively concentrated in the capital so that there is so much useful and desirable politicnitrism in terms of carrying out highly sophisticated procedures, specialised health care in one place in the country that in no case should always be leveled with the capital and in this we could also include the need for other secondary, tertiary health institutions to be evenly deployed and organised in all parts of Croatia because we heard that Croatia is also the problem of distance in these 40 kilometers, that this distance is the same for many of our citizens today unsustainable. What we would also like to warn ourselves about has been heard here before that it is actually if this law were passed, that if the return of travel expenses were to be returned that it is about 220 million kuna, if at least they could accept the possibility of allowing, by an emergency procedure, physically disabled children to take advantage of the possibility of returning travel expenses to them to be around 2 million kuna. I don't think there's any real reason why it's been waiting until today and why it's going to have to wait another two or three months for those rights to come back. The more we witness, the more we get information from the Government, the Ministry of Finance about the excellent budgeting, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So we have data that in the first three months of this year, the tax authorities collected 15% more money into the state budget than last year. And it's particularly impressive that VAT revenues are even 28% higher. So we see from year to year that the state budget is growing, that more and more funds are being collected from taxes, and on the other hand we are going to reform and in health care in which we are cutting certain rights and in which we are cutting those rights precisely the poorest and those in which this assistance is absolutely necessary. Well, in the end, it is our proposal that the government, however, should prepare some legal solution as soon as possible, so that the population that has lost a certain right, so the specific right to return travel expenses and return it as often as possible, is indeed also a matter of health, often unfortunately also about lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61422	Thank you. Next Act amending the Health Insurance Act, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric on behalf of the Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61423	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me first just have a few introductory words. Namely, our club handed this bill over to the president in December last year. And what's very interesting is when the agenda is drawn up. Look at the order of the PZ. It is just the opposite of the order in which the president received these individual drafts of the law, so that ours finally ended up in the eighth place but interesting that the interpretation that has its own enormous political weight regarding the same matter and should have assessed exactly the state of health it was even placed in the ninth place which is really incorrect and is essentially talking about us in the Assembly and the way we are essentially tearing down the reputation of this House of Commons. The second mistake we made is that we united the debate on a health development strategy with several laws proposing to amend one or two sentences. And the third mistake is that we have now turned even the first reading into previous reading for the whole package because I want to remind you colleagues and colleagues that on July 13th of last year in this House of Commons, the majority abolished the right to return travel expenses to our patients, disabled people, people who are going to rehab after an emergency procedure. I'm undermining the emergency procedure we've abolished citizens' rights and when they need to be returned, then previous reading, then first reading, then second reading, and maybe a third reading. Please, we didn't insist on it. So, please, we really agree that a few laws should be set aside today, not to work in the package, there is no reason to work eight laws in the package, and we could already return to our insurance companies the right to return travel expenses. In fact, we are only pro-longing their torments because we all know that there was a registered mistake on July 13th last year, the minister himself admitted in his interview on February 1st of this year in the Morning List and when he promised to return the rights to the insurance companies clearly. With this procedure, this technology is what we're just postponing, delaying and delaying. I'd like to be really brief because I don't have much to add to what my predecessors already said. The HNS Club was the first to react to what people immediately in my county from the island and Gorski Kotar immediately reported that they would put them in an extremely difficult position with a new law, a July amendment last year. The petitions signed at the time were immediately sent to the government, the minister and to all levels, and thus, were expected to return to the situation much faster and much more effectively before July last year. And our proposal to amend the law went only that way for those who have the right to travel expenses as it was until July last year to regain those rights as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61424	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61425	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister of the Croatian Government. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 50th session of the Committee held on 28 March 2006 discussed the proposal for a National Health Development Strategy 2006 to 2011 which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 22 March 2006. The Committee discussed the National Strategy proposal as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee's meetings were representatives of the Institute, associations and chambers and health systems. The meeting was also attended by a special adviser to the president of the Republic of Croatia for science and education. In the National Health Development Strategy 2006 to 2011 and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, the Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, the Proposal for a Health Insurance Law on Health at Work and the Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, a joint discussion. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. Based on an objective assessment of the situation in the health system, the system's problems and the proposed solutions to clarify them were highlighted by the applicant's representative. In a broad debate followed by most Committee members, it supported the need to establish the National Health Development Strategy in 2006 to 2011 as a principle approach. In order to achieve the full success of this strategy, it is necessary to propose, as soon as possible, an Action Plan which will include precisely the designated holders of individual tasks, the deadlines for implementation and all other conditions and circumstances necessary for the successful implementation of the strategy. The strategy also gives rise to 4 legislative proposals supplementing health legislation. As the Committee members warned in the debate on changes in health legislation, better availability, efficiency and quality of health care should be ensured. Although, in the opinion of some Committee members, the proposed amendments may not be sufficiently comprehensive, it is important that the procedures in the health system legislation do not violate existing good solutions and that they try to improve what has proved to be bad. The health reform, therefore, is a continuous adjustment process, and the strategy itself defines strategic objectives in the five-year period. It is important to note in the Committee's view that the strategy and package of laws stemming from it retains the social level of health care and health insurance although this will likely slow down the financial situation in the system. This is evident in retaining the amount of surcharge relief, which continues to cover almost 60% of the population. Keeping additional insurance within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute due to social sensitivity and not leaving it to market conditions is also a measure of protection of the acquired level of health insurance. Although there were contrasting opinions, the majority of the Committee members claimed that the existence of a list of free medicines also constitutes a retention of the acquired social level of health insurance rights. During the implementation of the strategy, consideration should also be given to the spatial distribution of patients, spatial distribution, pardon hospitals or procedures of categorisation and accreditation of hospitals. This will improve the availability of secondary healthcare and increase the efficiency of the system. Particular attention should be paid to strengthening primary healthcare. Primary healthcare should be addressed mainly of health problems. Provide health care services. The primary health care should contain promotional, preventive, intervention-rehabilitation measures. In order to provide quality primary health care, it is necessary to resolve its institutional status as there are three types of so-called "now". privatised healthcare. The basic issue of reforming the health system is the financing of the system in the opinion of the Committee members. How health versus other segments of society, for example, education and science have significantly smaller resources, while at the same time caring for the health of the overall population, it is necessary to increase the responsibility of those who manage them. I'm only thinking about the directors of the health care facility here. And certain envisaged activities such as reducing the share of public spending on private consumption, defining a negative list of basic health insurance packages. The improvement of the existing direct payment system of users should contribute to the financial stabilisation and sustainability of the system. After a broad debate, members of the Committee voted mostly with 2 votes abstentions, 1 vote against decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the National Health Development Strategy 2006-2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61426	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HSU counseling club. The honourable representatives will share the time; Joseph the Judge and Silvano the Hrelja. First Joseph the Judge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61427	Ladies and gentlemen, health is the most sensitive issue of society with life. The Constitution guarantees health as the most important part of the social state. However, when I read a careful proposal or set of these solutions, I first pulled up a little older document called the Long-term Development of Health in the Republic of Croatia in 1985. I have to tell you that I have literally seen many things that are now and in this strategy of health development, and when I read it, I get the impression that the strategy is asking if there is life after death? So I think we should ask another question, is there a life before death? That's what I'm like as a pensioner and as a citizen. The real answer is how for who. For the rich, yes, not for the poor. I was a little surprised because our government did, and I think the previous government answered 1,000 questions for accession to the European Union, and we answered that successfully. We've been carrying whole packages, but today we don't know the answer to how to survive a little man. How can he survive a pensioner? How to survive that socially endangered citizen. And now I'm surprised by one question from the esteemed professor. Hebranga who says this is something to talk about. I always thought health care was polyvalent, that about him and I as an economist had something to say maybe as much as a purely professional worker, and that's a doctor in health care. So far, doctors in health have spoken. In the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance they actually shared a cake that was attached as a means of contribution. The truth and God that cake is too small. But what do we want? We want that cake bigger. In what way? Well, we don't need to read that in the Health Development Strategy. Let's turn over each other's documents that we brought back a little earlier in this House, called the projection of development, financial development, and we'll see exactly what we want to achieve there. He wants to cut the total resources in health care. In what way? In a way to transfer part of the burden, but not to gross, but to net income. That means when you pay the state everything from what's left for you now you have to be participating for health care. I'm particularly concerned that we're not socially sensitive enough. What we have left of this great social justice is this social health insurance, and now we're going to rationalize it. In what way? To transfer some of the costs to net income. To impoverish this citizen of ours. Especially to impoverish this pensioner, even though we talked and negotiated when we accepted the coalition, that we would free the pensioners from participation. However, we do not talk about this today. It's as if we've forgotten that part of the population, as if we've forgotten that one of the priorities that each of us has been through a 65-year warranty period, asks each other how your health works, I wish you good health. They don't say I want you to have a long life or I want you to have something else, but I want you to have good health and anyone who breaks that health, anyone who wants to reduce the value of their health, I don't think it works in the interest of these people. And we like to compare with Europe. That's where I read in the strategy that we're getting closer to Europe. Now let me tell you something. The most important health indicator, although I am not a health worker, is the life expectancy expected, while in Europe this life span of '85. until '98. increased by 5 years in Croatia by only a year. So, gentlemen, I don't see that we're going to have to extend the duration of this. Maybe we want to cut it down, maybe we want to cut it down a little bit this year. Or we want to enter the European Union with less infant mortality. But it says we've been behind Europe for 15 years. When are we gonna catch up? Does with this way that now father and mother instead of stimulating them to get to raise or to feed the child to say now because your child is born choose to give a part of the participation or administrative tax. And you know what confuses me the most? It's about decentralisation. I've read this decentralisation three, four times and I don't get it. The government now has a certain authority over the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Now the “cobayages ” isolate him, but no decision can be made on its own. Either with the consent of the Government, or with the consent of the Ministry or with someone else's consent, and we left the entire link to the regulation, then the rules, then the health standard, the scope, the program, and the contract between the service provider to limit rights. So we have a big, wide freedom but we have a lot of opportunities or opportunities to limit it in a certain way. There was a bad impression in the people. We started talking about generics. Excuse me, ordinary man says we've never been treated before, and now they're giving us generic medications that are sorry for the expression of the world of water. It doesn't help, it doesn't, because it's the cheapest medicine, and every new one would have to be 10% cheaper. Well, in the end, he's gonna give us drugs, but if that drug isn't helping you, then you're gonna have to pay for that other medicine. Therefore, if you want health, the people would, out of practice, say the people have a rich tradition of remembering that they know where it's stuck. And I'd tell the health lady, so we economists know where it's stuck. Well, it's stuck, if we're saving drugs, so it's stuck on that no importer has ever failed. They all installed six months or one-year payment into the price and created a compensatory calculation. They have secured themselves because they know that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will not pay them in 3 months. ... 3 months if it is, if it has experience at 6, 6 or a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's at the price of the cure. And that's why our drugs are expensive. And in the end, who's doing the drug control? Let's take action to collect all those non-exhaustive drugs. You'll see what's not spent. So do not waste what does not help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61428	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61429	Thank you very much. A respected colleague said that in my debate, I appealed to the profession, not to the social partnership, which is, of course, out of context. I have appealed that instead of politicizing to contribute to the professional improvement of the content of these laws. Another thing that's incorrect is that this law deprives some parts of the population. The proposed laws leave, retain all social benefits of all social strata, not one don't end. And thirdly, it is not true that life expectancy is not improved in Croatia. The data he stated relate to the European Union. The life expectancy in Europe has increased less than in Croatia in the last 8 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61430	Second correction, respected representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61431	Your Honor, Mr. President. I have to correct the incorrect quote of the previous representative when he described the generic drug as something that pharmacological effect was on him far or almost comes down to nothing, on the guideline, as it was said. That's not true. The generic drugs, that's what Mr. Secretary explained what this is about. It's like he's packed one in a black box and the other one in a blue box. But to understand better, maybe those who don't have that much to do with health care, I'm just going to say one of these illustrations that comes to me. The bread from "Pan-Pek" and "Klara" is the same, but if we agreed to buy from "Klara" then the price is that, everyone gets it for nothing. And if you want that one, you can buy it yourself. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61432	Next, on behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61433	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia, we pensioners do not dispute the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the right and obligation to take care of state spending, i.e. public finances. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has the right and obligation in the interest of financial sustainability of the health system to propose new laws, or to amend and supplement existing legal solutions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has the right and obligation to care for the social and health status of its citizens and to ensure the implementation of constitutional principles of accessibility, equality, solidarity and social justice. In doing so, the level and quality of national health must be a dominant idea and it must be long-term and always ahead of arguments of the financial effects or financial deviations of the system. I don't know if yet, but in Denmark, the health resort was in the Department of Defense. They raised him to that level. We have to check it out, and for a long, long time, and it certainly isn't for no reason. The state of Croatia has institutionalised social dialogue, modelled by the verified and stable European democratic systems. Therefore, the place of meeting of interest, so the place of possible conflict, but also the harmonisation of interests in the function of the general good state, employers and workers' representatives, on the Economic and Social Council at the state level. The same in most Croatian counties. Therefore, proposing these changes and supplementing the health system requires a minimum level of social consensus by the social partners. We're saying we have social dialogue, but we don't agree. We don't have a social consent procedure, we don't have what the Italians call... We have a negotiation and a revote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a continuing open conflict of interest in social dialogue and it is not good for long-term system development planning. It is necessary to carry out a minimum public debate with citizens and civil society organisations in the capacity to look for the desired solutions, not financial solutions imposed. The fact that we have on the Ministry's website a proposed national law and law strategy means that we have the public's work. It's not a public debate yet. For a quality public debate we need to know the goal, we need to have modernators that direct this public debate towards a specific goal. The Croatian Health System, according to us in HSU, is the least financial problem. Much more than that, the problem is the system's staticness and the development of a kind of business in decline. Furthermore, for the proposed changes and additions to the health system for which the proposer has from time to time ambitions to say that they represent a minor reform of the system, a political consensus is also needed. This process of unifying the system segments, whether it is complementary health insurance or ensuring work injuries, every 4 years or more, is executed and speaks about the strong dependence of the system on politics. The system in which ownership and management rights are separated from the system of financial rights and the system in which the concept of decentralisation of health is used as a fig leaf does not have a brighter perspective. The political consensus is important that the health care system is given a component of long-term development in the function of growth of peoples' health, to achieve the characteristics of stability, clarity and unity, regardless of the fact that they are or are or will be political options in power. In Croatia, we pensioners feel that the health of Croatian citizens and the health parameters of Croatia's health system is not and cannot be subject to comparison with other European systems, for the simple reason that the conditions in which the systems operate are not equal. In the past 15 years, citizens of Croatia have been living in a state of continuous stress, and even young children know that exposure to stress causes permanent effects on individual psychophysical health. Aggression, war destruction and loss, privatisation robbery, bankruptcy, increase in unemployment, liberalisation of the labour market, mobbing, fear of cancellation, low wages for much more work and much more time spent on work, early retirement, in fact, which is a flat-rate interruption of work activities often without an alternative, extremely low pensions for us in Croatia are the parameters that our health system makes incomparable to most of the old members of the European Union, but also transition countries including neighbouring Slovenia, which we often know how to compare with. These parameters certainly leave deep marks on individual and overall citizens' health and are essentially due to poor health. For us in Croatia, it is normal for pensioners to, in these circumstances when everything is uncertain, and only changes are certain and from bad to worse, increased costs for the health of citizens. It needs to survive and stay normal. The second relevant factor to be taken into account, which should be carefully analysed in order to accurately determine the current situation in the system and by the extent of deviation of the system is deviating from the declared system of folk health of the founders of Dr. Andriye Printer and moving towards a kind of elitist approach to health care. The number of specialist examinations exceeded the number of checks in primary health care. This deviation is read through statistics in the National Strategy with insufficient causative arguments. In order to make a constructive contribution to this debate, we in Croatia organised a party to pensioners in Umag on 3 April a public hearing on "the health system of Croatia, the state and proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia". The public stands lasted more than two and a half hours, with health workers and members of the pensioners' parties present, more than 80 of them. The public forum, which was held in a highly correct and constructive atmosphere, highlights certain problems and suggestions that I would like to share with you esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First, it is necessary to review the role and status of primary healthcare in the healthcare system, define or redefine the concept of a family doctor who offered himself to us there half a decade ago as a prescription of the health system. In addition to mere findings, there is no essential analysis of the functioning of primary health care. It has been pointed out that more rights and powers should be given to doctors of primary health care because if they do not do their job then they are mere administrators. Secondly, firstly discuss the National Strategy, which is said to be late and short-term, agree and adopt, and then join the amendments and additions of individual laws. The strategy should be agreed and drawn up for at least the next 10 years. The National Strategy lacks a Strategy for Health Care of Children, Pregnants and Elders, lacks a precise strategic position and development of prevention as the only barrier for large costs created through a higher level of health competition. There is no strategy for primary dental activity and concepts and the development of dental prevention. There is a lack of focus on long paths and raising the level of folk health. Preventive work is permanent, available to all and comprehensive. We want to know the official opinion of the medical chamber and the dental chamber. National strategies must establish minimum standards under which the right and availability of healthcare for all citizens cannot be guaranteed. As I see time running out, I'm going to stay in mine, I'm going to continue in my personal discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61434	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61435	Your Honor, Mr. President. A colleague of the Hrelja said that we are actually moving towards the elite model of health. The quote is not true because we are, in fact, the only one, as Mr. Minister pointed out and the rest, we are the only one with a list of free medicines, we remain the same basket of basic health services, and it is necessary to stress once again that no social benefit is lifted for any citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61436	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac and respected representative Damir Kajin. In a different order, Honored Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61437	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed gentlemen of the council. Here's what's going on. 16 billion and 218 million kuna are the total expenditures of health services. 14 billion and 687 billion kuna, that's our income, so we're missing a continuous billion to 2 billion kuna a year, and we're persistently reducing these fiscal projections for health care, mainly with regard to the participation of healthcare in the Republic's gross social product. It's obviously not to applaud. This is how in 2004, the share in the gross product of the Republic of Croatia health, meaning the general state, not counting what the citizens had singled out, was 7.6%, 2005. 7.3%, 2006 is 6.9%, 2007 will fall to 6.5%, 2008 to 6.1%. I note that 0.1% of gross social product is 250 million kuna. So with less resources, you intend to achieve a higher health standard. That's odd at least, I dare say impossible, and if that happens in Croatia then the eighth wonder will happen here. The gross social product, the truth it will grow 4.2 to 4.3% a year, perhaps 4.5%, that's nine to 10 billion kunas higher this year in 2005, 10.11 billion kunas higher in 2008 than in 2007 and will therefore certainly affect health care. It is to be assumed that we will record inflation from 2.2 to 2.3, 2.4 percentage points a year, that the cost of salaries will rise 4 to 4 and a half percent a year, that there will be an increase in material separation, that the cost of medicines will rise, and then all of this says, whether we want to admit it to ourselves or not without new charges, under the quotes "insults", there is no chance of healing our health care unless there is a miracle in the Republic of Croatia and we halve unemployment overnight, but in such a miracle no one in this hall or outside of it believes. What did he do? Five basic problems, so we have. We have centralization, pensions that HSU was talking about, health care, unemployment, a clear lack of foreign investment. The stories are now in some health savings, so they're a little naive, unless someone suggests a reduction in the number of general hospitals. Of course no one will do that because it would trigger a real revolution in the Republic of Croatia. To have on the other hand one set, to have an irrational system where every 50 kilometers is a general hospital we know that but that's how it's going to stay for sure and for the future. It is true that something could be reduced about bureaucracy, hospital days, some medication, etc. But basically nothing revolutionary can happen as long as the health pay alone goes to 70 and some general hospitals and over 80% of their budget. And so much reform is not possible on the one hand, and especially no reform is possible without money. It is in the end, I have an impression, understand and the International Monetary Fund and have stopped, undermining, insisting on some rapid reform that could, in the right sense, "touch" the entire health system. It's true, she's lucky. Budget revenues are slightly higher in January 2006, well higher than in January 2005. Here, perhaps, we should look for some exits, and perhaps it would be good to prescribe something from our neighbours. For example, ten years ago they introduced a 5-75% participation but then it turned out that few people could pay for it, and then they introduced additional health insurance. Now they've finally introduced four paying classes, so the poorest will pay de facto four times less insurance premiums than the ones that have the highest incomes. So that's where the reverse redistribution took place in favor of the poorest that the minister had mentioned earlier compared to that model when it favored the rich. They also abolished funding on hospital-supply days, introduced a diagnosis payment which is certainly a good model. It's in Slovenia. In Croatia, what might have to be done if it could sound like a heresy. We all pay contributions and they are 15% on salaries and I believe that these contributions should be paid progressively and for certain categories of citizens and increased. Now we have to agree whether it would be a minimum of 2.5 thousand, or whether it would be an average salary of 4 thousand and 400 kuna, so that those who receive more than 2.5 thousand add an additional 0.5% or 0.5% to those of 4 thousand 400 kuna, those who get more than, say, 10 thousand kuna 1.25%, those who receive up to 15 thousand kuna 1.5%, those who receive over 20 thousand to additionally tax there with another 2 percentage points on these salary contributions. I said it might sound like heresy, but given the state of mind, lack of money, I don't know what other way out than these ridiculous restrictions. On the other hand, if someone had someone in the hospital, they would understand very quickly what a good service it means and our patients I claim from our doctors have an excellent quality service, but the conditions in which they work are really such that they should not be mentioned in particular. Second, general hospitals are gentlemen before the collapse, the county can't take care of them. In addition, I seem to argue with this way where clinical hospital centres are subdued by the state and general hospitals of the county or care for them by an important distinction between, for example, individual counties. Health said in 2005 it ended with a billion kunas of losses and the operating conditions must be clear to you in 2006 and additional losses from 500 to 600 million kuna at the state level of which 50% will certainly be the cost of additional general hospitals, meaning County. The Association of Employers in Health proposes another principle so-called, they indicated or called a 1 % contribution to solidarity in health care, which would collect about 1 billion kuna at the state level, and would return to the position of 2001 or 2002, and this proposal if the proposal proposed by the IDS on progressive taxation would be rejected but provided that that money remains where it is coming in, means in the county where it is coming in. If such a model were implemented, I argue that during the night the General Hospital in Pula would solve all its dubiosis and that a Primorje-Gorski County would enviably raise the standard at its clinical hospital center. This is the only way we hold it in order to neutralize the impact that will occur after the Croatian Health Insurance Institute introduces these two lists of medicines or a basic free list of 800 medicines to 500 free medicines, which will say that those 300 who were until yesterday will be free of charge can be obtained but only at the expense of what will ultimately be a real blow to the standard of the most vulnerable citizens of the elderly and clearly ill. Mr. Neven Ljubicic, the 300 medicines that will be paid from now on, I quote, a wish list, and there is no doubt that from now on these 300 medicines will be paid because the greatest wish of each of us is the health that as time goes by seems to be available only to the privileged. When it happens that some medicine can be given i.e. Buy only the chosen, the decomposition of this society will be complete, will be permanent, will be irrevocable. For such a solution means a contribution to solidarity or I don't know what I know that this prevails may not be at this moment of understanding, but if we keep in mind the fact that the system is missing up to 2 billion kuna, then there is no money, then there is really a question of how to get out of this situation. Mr Hebrang, for example, repeatedly points out that in 2003, a debt in health was inherited from HRK 7.1 billion, that it ended in 2005 with 4.6 billion kunas of dubiosis, which will say that the debt fell by 2 and a half billion kuna. However, debts exist, paying late from month to month, gentlemen of indifference is repeated at the end of the 1990s, and at times when, say Minister Schuker claims he never had a better budget charge, says as much as 15% more early in the first quarter of 2006 than in 2005. He says that the VAT in this quarter has incomed as much as 28% more money than last year. Why don't the state, for example, do something with that money for our sick health care or why that money doesn't resuscitate these dubiosis generals, I don't know, clinical hospital centres and so on or at the end of the day think about buying that money the voter's affection for the next parliamentary elections in a way that they'll give to their own, and those who haven't voted for them the money will deny it. It is also amazing that 13 billion kuna, 2004, was spent on health care in 2003. 15 billion 784 million kuna, and in 2005, a figure on page 22 of the National Strategy, a billion kuna, was shown less. Well, if that's how it is, then I'm sure it's not good. It is clear that Croatia cannot be measured with countries that are nominally 3.4 times more per capita than the Republic of Croatia. Surely the key law of this set of laws is this one on compulsory health insurance. The first proportion of healthcare I said in the gross social product decreased from 10.2% of 2000 to 7.8% in 2005. Others, namely, that in 2000 public spending was 8.2%, private 2%, and in 2005, public 5.8% plus 2%, however, it is crucial that public spending in health is no longer followed by the growth of gross social product, but that it is lower than the growth of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. If that's the case, and it comes from this text, then it's all bad for all of us. I understand that everyone is against some new obligations but on the other hand we are all justifiably looking for the best health standard, but it is achieved they wanted me to admit it to myself or not just the money, because the operation at heart in the Republic of Croatia costs the same as in Italy, Austria, France or elsewhere if we do not count the clear salaries of our doctors. What citizens are extremely sensitive to are transport costs, however, it is a strange logic that now promotes it. Everyone's looking for higher funds, and the proposers of these laws are going to save 303 million, 363 thousand 954 kuna. This Regulation shall enter The mandatory health insurance law may well be crucial. Here you can literally see what activities are free of participation, which will now stand out 15%, 25%, 35, 30% and 50% of the price of the service. So we will pay 50% of the additional dental health care in the mobile Finnish prosthetics of adults, and 15% more will pay for specialist consular health care including day hospital, surgical procedures in the daily hospital, specialist diagnostics, special consular dental care and so on. So yet certain amounts are introduced here that the citizen will have to pay additionally for what he has been released to date whether it's 15, 25, 30 or 50%. So they must be getting worse for the end of the chance. The state has no regrettable solution so it enters the rationalisation and transfer of cargo to the county without realizing that, for example, the revenues from the county are less than the revenues of the general hospitals. And I am glad that there is also the Varazdin mayor Mr. Cacic, among other things, claimed that our county, he said, will not pay any debts from general hospitals for Varazdinska. It's about the systematic, organized putting of counties, county hospitals ahead of blackmail. Obligations are transferred to local and rights, and they are made at the state level and so on and so on. We'll see how Chacic faces it. When a man, however, faces the need for treatment, it is clear that he would give everything for health, for a health care service, and therefore I should open up a special debate on the state of the general hospitals, and this preliminary debate is certainly a good fact that there is, that detail of the minister in its strategy. For the end of the separation for health care, at least the growth of gross social product must be monitored at national level.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61438	Thank you very much, colleague Cain. Your party colleague, Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, has five minutes. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61439	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, this is like the original generic drugs. Someone's 15 and about five minutes. But we do have a good chance in, in an individual debate. But as far as all of these laws on the agenda today are concerned, there are 8 different health proposals, which is just an indication of how important this topic is and how problematic this area is regarding patients, doctors, health workers. I dare say the local self-government unit. Maybe to quote Schopenhower 9/10 of our lives lies in health. It's the source of our life's pleasure. Without health, we cannot enjoy any joy of life. It's a good thing this is a previous reading today. I hope that the promoters will really respect everything that is heard here today and we in the IDS are in favour of systematic health reform, and certainly it should be a serious and thorough task not only of governments, representatives, unions, but it should be the task of all, all those I have previously cited, doctors, medical staff, patients, and all citizens who want to participate in this. Even in our opinion, it would be good to hold a referendum on health reform. In all the serious countries that carried out health reform, these were their imperative tasks, and these governments were not doing other projects at the time, but they were all dealing with health reform. We must not play with our citizens and treat them like guinea pigs to realize in a few years that the reform has gone the wrong way and that, in our good old custom, everything begins with every new government. It seems to me that all attempts so far have been made to transfer as much cost to the patients themselves. No health reform will succeed until the entire system is reformed, not only partially implemented. In our opinion the biggest problem of both financial and professional nature are in hospitals and until hospital treatment starts to pay by diagnosis and not by bed as before, because this model of pay per bed is again in such a model of politics, because in those hospitals which, whose minister let's say so in power, have more paid hospital beds, and those others less. As the second biggest problem we see at the level of paying of course health insurance, and I must tell you that I spoke about it exactly four years ago and offered a model such as in Slovenia, which introduced four paying classes, so the poorest will pay four times less premiums of health insurance. So reverse redistribution in favor of the poor, unlike that of the previous proposal they had for the rich. Since we still have very little time left, I must say that the decentralisation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is the same large questionnaire and we, of course, are in favour of decentralisation, and we also need to be aware that today-to-morrow we will be out of staff because every year at the medical school in Split, Rijeka, Osijek, registers with less and less students, and also the model and way of approval of the doctor's specialization is also considered not good. Then I'll stay in my individual discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61440	My colleagues, I think you've had another minute. All right, we've got corrections on incorrect allegations. The first came to the correction by legislator Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61441	I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who claims that the same prices of the operation are, for example, in Croatia and Italy. This is practically impossible, unless it is an extra profit for the simple reason that labour prices in Croatia are significantly less than in Italy. Secondly, it is not true that only new imposes can cure the health care system. In any case, we argue that the increased responsibility and daily work of competent institutions and the control of payment of contributions can make significant effects on improvement in the health system. See "Vjesnik" since 9 January 2006, where during a short period the State Inspectorate found 53 workers of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, employers did not report at all mandatory, pension or health insurance. Let's solve a little causes not just deal with the consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61442	Thank you very much. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, MP Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61443	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is incorrect, as counterpart Cain said, that the changes, or as he said in the reform, cannot be implemented without money, so extra money, right. Just the other way around. The reform is also carried out to ensure optimal health care for all, not just the rich, and within the same separation for health care, and thus our specialisations for healthcare are one of the largest in Europe. On the other hand, the aim is to ensure the same or greater rights and maintain or improve health achievements and let us not frighten people, compare us among other things with Slovenia and call for some pay classes. So we in a package of basic rights within compulsory health insurance, so we already have a lot more rights than Slovenians, and by ourselves, we have these classes, paying classes... And not a single right has been abolished so far. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61444	Thank you very much. Next up is MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61445	Thank you very much. I'm correcting my colleague Caine who said that the goal of all these measures is that these are ridiculous restrictions. It just doesn't stand, it's not true. The aim of all these measures is to introduce the right control of consumption, i.e. to strengthen the responsibility of all entities in the system in verticals from the director to the head of the department. The second said incorrectly that the list of medicines is what it is and that 300 medicines will have to be paid. That's not true. The list of medicines is said to be provided for all diseases and free of charge. And the third thing, mentioning a basket of services in percent it's nothing new, it's been so far, so nothing's changed and it just doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61446	Thank you very much. The next one is Agent Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61447	Thank you very much. My dear colleague Cain, along with a number of quality elements of the debate, said one lie, and I must deny it. He said the system, thought of health care, before the collapse, and opportunities are getting worse. This is simply not true, because the annual report by the financial HZZ and all hospitals shows the following. That the total lack of income per total expenditure in 2003 was 6.05% now reduced to 4.65%, which is significant. Why? By reorganising the system, by strict financial discipline and by initiating 2.5 billion kuna during the current year into the system itself. Secondly, the total HZZO liabilities to the final account from all hospitals were reduced from 2 billion to 2 billion 260, so it was reduced by over 400 million. And eventually they made a commitment to all suppliers, so I'm going to give colleagues to Kajin a list of those obligations. The commitments came from 2.4 billion down to 1.3 billion, so that's the opposite of what he said. It is an improvement in the financial stability of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61448	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect quote, MP Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61449	The esteemed representative, Mr. Cain, and some of the other MPs, are pushing one unfortunate thesis, that the list of generic medicines that are provided with medicines for all diseases is not reduced. For 300 for each disease, a generic cure has been provided, but that it is sacred water. It's not a good thesis, and don't play with it that you're not doctors. The medicine is a medicine. The generic medicine is the same medicine as the one packed in a better package and therefore is 10 or 15 or 20% more expensive. A generic medicine is a medicine and means for every disease there is a cure and it is a free medicine and therefore is not a good thesis and is not good for our people to say it is holy water. The medicine is a medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61450	Thank you very much. The next one's a representative of Letica. I'm asking you nicely, colleague Thinman, don't throw it out loud from the bench, you're interrupting the debate. Next up, it's Agent Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61451	So I would correct the wrong quote of my colleague Bukovac who said that Croatia is being threatened by a lack of personnel. Unfortunately, the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in all competitions in Croatia will allow nurses and doctors and other healthcare professionals from all the countries of the agreement to compete, and in the perspective of Moldova and other countries. Therefore, we are facing other problems, which is unfair competition in these markets and high pressure from health workers from those countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61452	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Let me just have one piece of information. We'll be working without a break today, so please arrange the time we usually use between 13.30 and 15 hours to try to finish today's agenda. The word came out on behalf of Prime Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61453	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm not, of course, going to correct the incorrect allegations, but I'm just going to say a few things that seem extremely significant to me right now. The first question is, can we provide a higher standard of health within the existing means? That's the key question. We can. The answer is very clear, loud. We can. I'm sorry there aren't any who brought that up. Apparently they're gone. They don't care. How can we? We can do this, ladies and gentlemen, in 2005 only thanks to the bidding of orthopedic aids, so we determined the prices of certain orthopedic aids 100 million kunas. Thanks to our two identical medicines, I repeat the same drug we took the cheaper one, and we formed the price so that we took the price of three European countries and then reduced by 10% to which we have a clear right. That's how we got 150 million kunas and please don't talk about saving. That's not saving. Count these 100, so these 150 and you will get what we made possible in 2004, 2005 and our citizens will know when I say Lantus, Glivek, Mapera, Herceptin all the medicines that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been waiting for 3,4.5 years and that all the countries of the European environment have had it. That's what's inadmissible and we don't want anymore. We have a lot of options inside the system. We need to use them and see that many are pushing in that direction to take our citizens. I am determined to speak here in front of the government as a proposing officer. No, we're not gonna let that happen. We will save all social categories from further giving, because it was a strategy of this government, it was an approach and in the far line, and that's why we got the voter's trust. I'd like to take another look at the administrative fee. It's true. We've introduced an administrative fee. Well, here's to my last presentation, to the European House of Patients, and I'm sorry that maybe there weren't more listeners. I got clear support for the administrative fee, and you know why? Because we have managed to reduce the mortality of myocardial infarction, and this is what we will do next week and present, the professional society will present it because we have formed a network of institutions that can react quickly and put in small prosthetics costing 1500, 2000 euros. That's what ladies and gentlemen have done and significantly reduced the mortality of myocardial infarction, and that's why normally we have indicators that were actually spoken of, which means that life expectancy has improved. And I want to say for what's been pointed out here several times, and that's what we suggested in the National Strategy, and I'm glad I have the support here, and that's about introducing a dreg system, dts model. Right, we'll pay for the diagnosis and here's the good news for all those who support it, and I think we'll have a full consensus here too. We started with a pilot project, 4 large hospitals of a different type, the project will be partly supported by the World Bank's financial amount. So it's about four hospitals. The project will take about six months, and then we will try to implement it throughout the system. So, one thing we're going with the National Strategy, and we're already working with it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61454	Thank you very much, Minister. On behalf of the HNS Club, representatives Vesna Pusic and Dragutin Lesar share their 20 minutes. Here you go, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61455	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Based on Caine's instruction, please warn me when I get to 10 minutes. It is obvious from the debate that it is wise that we have opted for a previous debate on the strategies and laws that came from the government, although it is a pity that the possibility of corrections proposed in the laws of the opposition clubs in Parliament was also a small segment of the correction of an injustice that was done. However, they were killed in this law grouping. In the National Health Development Strategy proposal, I must start with how fundamental concepts are defined, because then I think it leads us into a certain delusion, i.e. certain errors in defining measures and procedures. In this proposal, the strategy is defined as a network and a set of methods and instruments, and policy is defined as measures to achieve the objective. It is not clear which target and how that goal will be defined. And I suggest that, instead of my opinion and the opinion of the HNS Club, this missed definition, that a strategy, as is usually understood, be defined as planning goals and towards health development. If that were the case, we would probably have fewer problems with the strategy ahead of you, and the policy as it usually is methods and measures, so the way in which we implement and how to implement or implement what is set out in the strategy. I'm going to talk about the strategy itself a little bit more extensive and it seems to me that the main feature that may be derived from this misdetermination of the strategy, the main element of this strategy, is in a small but very significant passage in the whole text entitled "Sense of economic reality." That feeling of economic reality is more or less summed up in itself by what that strategy says, which is ladies and gentlemen, the money is gone. In other words, there is no way of increasing or raising the quality of these services. There's no money in the model he is now. It's clear to every man. We don't need any experts to do that. We don't need any parliamentary representatives to do that. Anyone living in this society knows that in this model as set up health care is expensive, and at the same time there are many objections to the service as we have seen from quoted research. And as we know from experience, people know from personal experiences. But that's why there's a strategy. The idea of the strategy is not to say listen, there's nothing you can do and let's see how inside what's now, what's there, how we're going to kind of squeeze and deploy that little cake. There is a strategy to find among other things without increasing giving, to find opportunities for additional inflows of health money resulting from additional and different models of funding for individual health projects. I'll talk about it a little later, but the whole idea of the strategy is to propose some step forward, to suggest something new that will improve the situation in health care, which will also improve the quality of the service and will not increase the provision of individuals, i.e. the payment of health services. But previously, we need to make a key decision for each strategy, and that decision is political. That decision is a political couple of excellences and nowhere else can be made. And that is whether in our understanding of what it is and should be a righteous society, whether we commit ourselves and whether we consider health care to be an inalienable part of that righteous society for all and available to all. It's a political decision and different societies have made it different. In some it is simply not an integral part of what is considered a righteous society, or simply does not go to the concept of a just society, in some it is. It is, and there is no doubt, a large and significant decision with great and significant financial consequences and, of course, it is a big decision that requires a new way of thinking health. In the existing applicable way of thinking about health, it cannot be stepped in that direction. HNS believes that, the HNS believes that, regardless of the difficult and large political decision, it is necessary in a just society to guarantee health care for everyone and accessible to everyone. And that decision should be made and agreed upon. And then based on that to define, determine, develop a strategy where there will be some new ideas about how this can be achieved. Because I repeat, if intellectually, therefore, in the opinion of health care, you do not step out of what exists, there will, of course, be no new solutions. It has been said here that we need an expert debate on this subject. I agree with that. We need an expert debate. It's just a matter of which experts. So, with a political decision, an expert debate is needed, but I would say largely economists and financial experts who can think beyond the existing and in this strategy of the given frameworks outside which it is not coming out. Here I'm going to suggest a few clues to what should be in such a strategy, and now it's not. So, first are indications of what. Apparently territorial availability. Territorial availability is mentioned, but territorial availability is not resolved, because of course it requires new forms of funding for institutions, so if you want buildings in which it will happen, and there is no mention of it here. The second is HZZO reform. the reform towards not only independence from the executive authority, but towards the formation and establishment of the HZZO as an insurance undertaking. So, like a real insurance company. We have already discussed this topic, had polls, had public discussions, and it is clear that it is in this direction that we should go. The third is an emphasis on prevention, which of course all European countries have a high standard, an emphasis on prevention and emphasis on school health education. There is no mention of it, and this health education in schools as a form of prevention is one key element. Fourthly, in line with some examples, positive and good, which exist in European Union countries, it is obvious that older people have special needs in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61456	Madam Vice President, I remind you, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61457	Thank you very much. And we think that there is a need to unite social care and health care for the elderly. Since my time is over, this is what we've decided, just for a moment to say three moments how. One project is a public-private partnership for the financing of health facilities, so building facilities in health care. The second is the combination of health institutions with health tourism projects, wellness centres, so commercial projects that are consistent with health care. Thirdly, the integration and co-operation with pension funds in the European Union which are potentially consumers of health services in Croatia for money. The European Union, of course, has its own strategy, so we would have to coordinate something there. But since the time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61458	Thank you very much. Agent Lesar, the other half. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61459	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm extremely sorry that in hospitals, or clinics and primary health care hospitals, there are no television receivers and interactive connections, to hear what we're talking about here today, those people in the waiting rooms think. Maybe that would make it a lot easier for us to discuss. In the Law on Health Protection, i.e. on Amendments and Supplements, only three evaluations. First, all investments in county general hospitals exclusively on the burden of counties other than the area of state care and the government strongly resented the counties that only 3.3% of their budgets singled out for health care. Well, then he's making moves to punish those counties that single out and 10% of the health care budget with the smallest hospital limits in the mass per bed, per employee, by diagnosis, by the white book, by any blue book you want. Every time he pulled himself out of the county budget more money, it was said you have, you don't need it. Second, the hospital's losses go to the founders of the county. It says that 80% of expenditure hospitals are material rights under collective agreements, up to 80, up to 80, quoting government documents. Well, Mr. Minister Ljubic, ask Minister Primorec why the salary education is not within the monthly limits of schooling. Why do you sign a collective contract that creates 80% of the hospital costs, and then you say that counties as quasi owners are responsible for losses. Who runs Croatian hospitals in the county? You say county. That's not true. Here's your proof. Since 3 March of this year, he writes to hospital directors that a health and social care commission has been established at the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs to oversee the management of health institutions. The commission manages health institutions, not owners. Who founded this commission, based on which law or act remains unknown. Well, therefore, the owners, so the county has no idea about this commission. They do not know that someone in Zagreb founded some commission that manages their institution that is legally responsible for their losses and that the minister limits 80% of the expenditure by collective agreement. And a third grade. The powers of the owner against the county hospitals and also the homes of health are equal to zero. I can appoint a board of directors and that's all. Because all the other things about spending are collective contracts and health standards that they don't bring, and only you can save yourself from buying less roll of toilet paper. As far as health insurance law is concerned, obviously within the HDZ there is a problem that there are fewer historians in Parliament because the reason for this law says that in 2001 there were 946 million kuna obligations over 90 days, but it does not say how long it was 99, 31.12.99, but the site later says that today there are such 990 million, so 50 million more obligations longer than 90 days. We are comparing ourselves with other countries in the separation of gross social product 10.9, 8.9, 8.7 and we need to reduce that. But how many of Croatia stands out for health care on the head of the population? For 2005, i.e. if I take estimates for 2005 3,000 and 600 kuna, 493 euros, 613 dollars. How many of these countries do we compare to, per capita, stand out for health care? Public health, not private. So when we compare capacities and capabilities then we have to add those data to understand what it's about. Three thousand and 600 kunas per head. Now, the minister is very proud of a basket of health rights and HZZO reform, and no right will be reduced by which it is. It's a quote of his statement today's pay phone. The health care measures referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall, therefore, be quoted by the law, on the basis of the plan for the health care measures adopted by the Minister responsible for Health at the proposal of the Institute and the Croatian Institute for Public Health, and in accordance with the financial means provided and the available facilities. In addition, the insured persons of the Institute in the exercise of health care rights under the mandatory health insurance plan and the programme of measures referred to in Article 14(3) of this Act shall be provided with the payment of health services and shall be quoted, and the educational provision, standards, health standards from compulsory health insurance including the list, type and number of therapeutic diagnostic procedures by the insured person at the annual level, shall be the amount of the means necessary in accordance with the means provided, as well as the way in which the rights of insured persons with compulsory health insurance are exercised, as a rule for each calendar year shall be adopted by the Administrative Board of the Office, with the consent of the Minister responsible for Health, in the previous opinion of the competent chambers. It's this basket that's worth it now, which was like this six times a year ago today, but you've changed it six times, and every time one grain of peas fell out of it, and this is already history, and what fate this basket is going to be in five years, I have no idea. HZZO is the insurance company, the only insurance company that doesn't give the insurance other than the card anything. What the health card will be worth in a year, unknown. The decision is taken by the Administrative Council, by the Assembly on a proposal from the Governing Council and by the Minister of Health to give consent if we have decentralisationd HZZO, separated from the policy and said it must function as an insurance provider. Why is it that the Minister of Consensus, on every act and rule, every basket and how many teeth I can fit in during the year, is given by the minister. It is therefore not true that HZZO is decentralised, that it is self-resisting and that insurance companies, i.e. service users, decide there, because the way to run and choose the board of directors is not legally resolved. He's writing two insurance representatives. By what method? Lotto? Phone book? The birth birth number? Date of birth? What? How are we going to choose these representatives there? There is no solution in the bill, and it is known when there is no solution in the law then the Government is deciding on it and ruling on it. There is no reduction in any existing law, established rights from the budget base in percentages, how much is the maximum compensation for living at this time? And how long will it be under this law? How much is the minimum compensation for being sick right now, and how much is it going to be under this law? 3 thousand 326 kuna under the Budget Implementation Act is a budgetary basis. Calculate these percentages and you will see that first of all it is not true that it will not be reduced, and secondly it is true that there is no reduction in the law because the law does not, unfortunately, determine the rights but gives power to the Minister to give an opinion to the Governing Council of HZZO which the basket will determine for each calendar year. As far as the strategy is concerned, there's only one sentence. The fight against healthcare corruption, I quote, "It will be led by other measures and by the introduction of voluntary health insurance.", so the patients will pay voluntary health insurance to protect themselves, you will buy, pay not to be subjected to corruption in health care. At my place in Međimurje, when they put the deceased in the pit, they tell him to rest forever. After accepting this health reform and bringing new baskets within 6 months to the largest number of Croatian patients, we can say that this Law and Reform brings them rest to you eternally sick people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61460	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61461	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague Pusic and hold him by a key misstatement that these proposals, i.e. the government's proposal, are not even a political decision, so you have not seen this political decision for the "healths for all" policy. So, I just think that these laws and this strategy are really on the trail of the printing one strategy, that is, the attitude of the "healthy for all" policy and the other thing you called the definition of what health policies said I think funny or I don't know how and you gave yours. I think yours is wrong right now, and I'm going to quote how the World Health Organization defines health policy right now. They say it is a set of decisions and obligations to achieve defined goals for improving health. So it's exactly consistent with what's standing in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61462	A fellow representative, thank you and for the instruction, one information, and in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a ten-minute hearing, and one information that may interest you other than 4, 5 clubs we have 44 registered representatives for a 10-minute debate and only a few representatives for a 5-minute debate so we know how to plan our time. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, MP Miroslav Cacia. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61463	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the representatives of the HSS Club, I will present our vision of the proposed laws amending and supplementing the laws and proposals of the National Health Development Strategy in 2006-2011, which the Government delivered to the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, with this proposal and the proposals, we are not satisfied with these amendments and the addition of the law, i.e. the law and the National Strategy. It is mostly said here, we believe that there was a need to accept the interpretation of the work of the Government in the field of health, to obtain one thorough analysis of the state of health, and then to approach the National Strategy, to bring it to a consensus, and then to apply it to the work of amendments and additions of those proposed by the four laws here. So we think that when we analyzed in detail what we were offered to do mainly with cosmetic changes, but at the same time, I would say to certain solutions that shift the burden of consumption to insurance and local self-government. We also have, we have, with data on the state of the gross social product since 2004, and how much has been allocated to the public, or how much has been the contribution of private spending to health. This was already said by Mr. Pecek in the introduction when he asked not to go with the first reading of these proposed laws, nor the National Strategy, but to try to explain and find a more acceptable solution for Croatian health care. I can't say and not say what he said the other day about a dozen days ago when the HNS and PGS Representatives Club asked for this particular interpretation of the work of Mr. Hebrang's government. He was mostly replicating it or I don't know what he was saying but it's not true, it's not true, it's not true. I can responsibly say here that the state of financial in health is still very, very complex, not to say difficult. In fact, regardless of what is said to be, that is, to some satisfaction is related to the reduction of debts from the transferred ones, so that the previous government and the previous period are still large health debts to drug suppliers, and the debt is also generally extremely high. I have followed the debate well so far, so I must honestly say that this is true that the ministry has appointed our authority, appointed a certain commission to oversee the work of health institutions. I've never felt more miserable than when I was present on that team that was, so with the representatives of our founder of that county at that conversation. Unfortunately, the situation is what it is, and I don't think that these answers have any money, or we can simply cover ourselves as much as we have, are not enough and enough because the debts are visible to our entire health care, and their founders are either the state, or whether the county can't cover them and the question is, why would they split up in such a way that the state has one authority over one of the health institutions when it comes to the same money? But since I am also a lawyer on behalf of the HSS Club, I will specifically determine myself for these proposed amendments and additions to the law as we have in some way analysed and seen them. Well, I'll start with this mandatory health insurance bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, there are also important changes relating to health care rights and this right to use medicines identified by the basic and supplemental list of medicinal products of the institution and, at the same time, Article 15 states that the institution only pays for medicines on the basic list of medicinal products. These provisions transfer patients to the cost of all medicinal products not included in the basic list as well as an additional to the difference in the price of medicinal products of the same action of the generic parallel from the baseline list as a rule of the lowest price and the one on which the supplemental list of medicinal products is included. According to the information available so far, a circus of 700 to 800 million kuna per prescription will be transferred to sick insurance companies. It is particularly unacceptable that the law does not provide for the possibility for state supplementary insurance to form a policy for the insurance of this risk whose price will cover only the cost of risk and business and not the profit that private insurance will put into the policy, so there will be a major social impact on the middle and poor part of the public. Our position is here next. The introduction of an additional list is also unacceptable to the administrative tax on prescriptions because it is a double system of restrictions and the consumption of medicines that will have far-reaching negative consequences for public health. It will not only result in the reduction of unnecessary consumption but also the necessary use of medicinal products. Secondly, we believe that a basic list of medicines should be established to include all medicines on the current list of medicines because they have been put on the list as necessary so far, with basic insurance paying only the lowest prices of generic and... parallels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The supplemental list of medicines would consist of all medicines currently on a unique list of medicines and a price difference, between the price of the same medicinal product on the basic list and the supplemental list of medicinal products, would be paid by any insurance provider or its additional insurance provider, state or private supplementary insurance. Article 28 provides for administrative fees for the review in primary health care, which in our opinion is unacceptable and the findings are the following. Doctors in primary health care are healthcare professionals of first contact with a sick insurance company and there must be no restriction on their availability to the most vulnerable, generally they are sick from the poor part of the population. Postponing their treatment can have far-reaching health effects both for themselves and for citizens in the immediate area, which can ultimately cost more than any administrative fee of the collected financial resources. We believe that the principle of free and unlimited access to primary health care must remain unquestioned and all treatment costs in primary health care must be borne by compulsory health insurance. The administrative fee, in our opinion, has the basis only in specialist-consular health care and only in the form and extent to reduce and limit the necessary diagnostics. In the context of the section on financial operations of the HZZO in Article 70, a provision is introduced on the allocation of any remainder of income over expenditures, 50% is allocated to say in the reserve and the rest can be borrowed. We ask who and why. We know what happened in the long time ago and where some people who mixed up that money ended up. And normally, we're making a proposal to cut the contribution rate, discharging the economy from these funds. In our opinion, a possible surplus can only be used to reduce payment deadlines, improve preventive healthcare and, in repeated cases, reduce the contribution rate. The HZZO organization as a newspaper introduces the Assembly of Article 89 as formerly we have said it from 43 to 45 members to 100,000 one who we consider to be too expensive given the intended tasks and powers and will be able to make decisions already with most of the 50% present, practically 25 plus one. The executive body is a board of nine members and it is envisaged that all representatives should be elected but not who proposes them, I guess those whom they would represent, even though the question is raised why there is no health representatives and a representative of the institution is envisaged. Who do we say is a circle of management. Parts of article 99 are almost ridiculous to us. The Assembly must say to relieve the Director and Deputy Director if, after three months of business, the excess expenditure is shown in relation to income, regardless of who pays the contribution, the tax administration, proposes a financial plan and determines other operating conditions. What if the reasons for the losses caused are objective and justifiable circumstances, Article 108, where the recovery is foreseen to be carried out at the expense of the state budget. The result of such a provision can be a change of management de facto every three to six months which certainly does not lead to business progress and will cause negative staff selection syndrome which, in an activity where there is no specific staff training, can also be fatal. In the case of supervision of labour law, Article 106, no more State audit than only the Ministry of Health. The section governing the relations between the institutions and health institutions proposes to negotiate the implementation of healthcare every three years. We're asking why. And what about filling up a network of health care activities where it's almost constantly unfulfilled, the fluctuation is personnel. The question arises whether it is not necessary to introduce some form of surrogate concession. If we want a concession then after reaching consensus it is and law it in one real form as it is everywhere in the world and not again inventing some of our wetlands that we don't know how it's going to end. We propose a primary health care agreement between the PZZ as before every year and the SKZ and hospital health care every three to five years, but only after we carry out categorisation and accreditation of polyclinic and hospital health institutions. Article 76 provides for a re-arbitration of the arbitration if... In accordance with the decision... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Arbitration within the specified time limit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we have this negative experience and an unfortunate connection to the work of arbitration or its composition that namely institutions that do not sign an annual contract normally are forced to go to arbitration, but there are always three representatives in that arbitration. Two from HZZO, one from the Ministry of Health, two from the health care facility. There's no way you're getting some kind of advantageous solution to some kind of demand or objectivity at the end of certain problems. Article 79(3) introduces a novelty limiting consumption in SHZ, but is now not limited by the number of instructions per contracted insurance undertaking but by the total amount agreed for single team insurance. So the restrictions on administrative fees, the number of instructions and now the money. We're asking why? In the event of an overrun, a health protection contract shall be terminated without discussion of justification or arbitration and so on. As far as this Voluntary Health Insurance Act is concerned, we believe that additional health insurance should be allocated from HZZO to a separate state-owned institution. As so far, there should be an insurance policy covering the payment up to the full cost of participation, therefore, as well as a policy to cover the extra charge between the price of the medicinal product on the basic and supplemental list of medicinal products, and not only to leave the part to private insurance providers. Policy prices should cover the price of risk and operating costs without the accumulated profit as private insurance companies precisely for the purpose of the social protection of chronic patients from the middle and poor part of the population for which this part of the necessary cost will be too much of the cost of living. Such an organised supplementary state-owned insurance would serve as a social correction in the protection of public health. At the time when it is estimated that such a correction, given the growth of standards, is not necessary for the state to sell insurance, small shareholders and other interested majority package, and to keep only the stock control package. Otherwise, he is known in the history of health insurance and in these areas were known stockholders, insurance companies, and it is precisely in the majority ownership of small shareholders of insurance companies. As far as the draft health insurance bill is concerned, this is, regardless of what is mandatory health insurance here, returning to the portfolio of private insurance companies. As it has once proved, it is unfortunately a failure for us because it has led to the overflow of basic insurance funds paid for by the treatment, and only 30.40% of the costs have been refunded. We particularly highlight the negative experience in covering the costs incurred by professional illness. A case of asbestos in Solin and a similar case where the state had to allocate specific financial resources. This insurance should remain as a separate fund within basic insurance with the conduct of a separate transparent business which unfortunately within three years failed to establish either this or the previous management structure of the office. There are indications that it has not been implemented and because of the excessive lobbying of private insurance companies that it is not to be implemented to get back as we know it in the people to say the golden coke that brings the circus 300, 400 million kuna annually. As regards the amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act, there are no amendments to the title of ownership of health institutions. And there remains a provision whereby companies can also deal with health activities that have proved in practice to be a bad solution, the case of the Holy Spirit Polyclinic 2. It is difficult to comply with two opposite provisions, the health institution's business is non-profit, and the company's core business definition is making as much profit as possible. We think that the amendments to the legal provisions should introduce the possibility of ownership or co-ownership at the health institutions of the county, cities and municipalities where there is vital interest in all levels of local administration and self-government for the better functioning of the health care institution in particular primary health care. At the same time, certain cities and municipalities have considerable financial resources that they would like to focus on health infrastructure. There is also an organisational change of health homes and there is a mandatory establishment of health homes on large islands; Brac, Hvar, Cres, Korčula,... /The speaker does not diverge./... and so on. Our view is that unnecessarily insisting on such a commitment is unnecessary because, in accordance with the previous attitude, for example, one home of health for all islands in the same county, with the co-ownership already stated. Privatisation of the existing so-called so-called “Privatisation” is being introduced. cold sanity transport within 6 months of the entry into force of this provision. The Croatian Institute of Toxicology is also established, and the public health services are abolishing that part of the activity. The relationship between health care professionals in hospitals and so on is regulated. There has already been said about the new role of directors and administrative councils of shift after... income and expenditure and so on and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are therefore our principled remarks and disagreements in the proposed amendments to those laws, which seem to be making only some cosmetic changes but still with far-reaching negative consequences for the social status of sick citizens and ultimately the health of the public. Because health care costs are being transferred to patients at an increasing level, or more is being opened up to profit not to the health of citizens but to their disease. And the Republic of Croatia remains less and less the social and state of Christian principles and structures. Without a national consensus and I would even say by a two-thirds vote I propose these laws, these laws must not be passed. All the members at the end of the European Union that we are constantly talking about protect the interests of their citizens in their specificities. So the high degree of solidarity through collective insurance must not leave and subdue it to the personal. For now, I'm just going to repeat once again that we've already singled out 20.62 in that private consumption. That private consumption is also total in, total in health consumption 20.62. We think that these certain solutions will be far greater. We therefore find them unacceptable. That it would take a lot, a lot of work, and then you should just approach from the National Strategy to the drafting of these laws and let them into the Parliament's procedure for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61464	Thank you very much, colleague. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First, he's a representative of Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61465	Thank you very much. A respected colleague said, quotes: "The Republic of Croatia is becoming a state with less and less social principles." This has nothing to do with this proposed package because even now, and even after this package of laws is adopted, Croatia remains definitely the most social state in Europe. I dare say words in the world about health care. More social than our eastern neighbours who are poorer and more social than Western neighbors who are richer. Second, it's incorrect for large debts to suppliers to grow. For the first time, we made a list of claims thanks to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. These debts have definitely been cut by 40 percent over the past two years, or as I have previously cited from 2.4 billion to 1.37 billion, with only two major drugstores asking for over 200 million, just 2 over 100, and there are much less amounts left. The consequence of that is that we've found 17 hospital account blocks, and there's not one today. Therefore, it is not true this time the financial system is more stable than ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61466	Thank you very much. Another correction to the incorrect allegations by MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61467	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to make two things right. My colleague said these were just cosmetic changes. It just doesn't stand. These are quality changes that will improve the quality of health services, which is indicated in several places, will increase responsibility, consumer control. So rationalization does not mean restrictions, and all social rights will be maintained. The second thing he said at the end of his class when he mentioned protection at work, was that it was given to private insurance companies. It just doesn't stand. It's the same state as the mandatory state-controlled insurance, and there won't be any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61468	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move forward on behalf of the HSP Club, colleague Miroslav Rožic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61469	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, this is one topic that is superseded, supranational and all the big words that I heard this morning when we talked, that this is the need for a great political consensus and for a great over-the-party consensus also shows the fact that not all doctors who are MPs are sitting in this hall, let alone enough. So, I don't know how we're gonna reach that consensus if we don't hear what the clubs think about this package of laws. But well, that was probably for the needs of those who followed us early in the morning. But since I don't know if there's a transfer going on, I'm still going to tell you a few of you who stayed to state the views of the HSP Club and the strategy and everything else. First of all, it was really strange for us at the HSP Club and we expressed it on several occasions and when we agreed on the unification of these points of the agenda to discuss the strategy at the same time and the three basic laws that should actually reform health care, then it became illogical as possible, because I always thought that basic laws should be made available from the strategy. So, you need to make a strategy, and then basic laws. I'm sorry, I have to admit it's a little hard to talk about what's supposed to be and what's already in my hands. However, in any case lately we have pointed out several times in the club HSP and repeatedly over the last few years that in Croatia, countless national programmes and plans and strategies and similar propaganda acts of this kind have been brought in. For many of them there was no need, no purpose, and as is generally known, almost none of them received any results. But in this hyperinflation of programming acts and strategies, it is difficult of course to distinguish important from irrelevant and thus very often becomes irrelevant and irrelevant. Of course it's the other way around. The lesson of this bass about strategies is, in fact, an increasingly poor position and the growing rights of Croatian citizens. It's a definitive fact, regardless of the fate of all these strategies. We are currently facing the National Health Development Strategy proposal. I'm sure it's something important. Of course, a national strategy of something called health development and health reform should be distinguished, because I don't think it's the same thing. The development is much more optimistic and I would say a much more affirmative category of health reform that points to the fact that everything is actually on the verge of collapse. However, if this is necessary, this is completely unquestionable and based on one real strategy and professional plans, which should ultimately, in effect, result in a better situation for citizens or their social security. Instead, this strategy and a series of laws that are attached to our assessment will not contribute to this objective, because the strategy contains indeed a lot of good data and indicators. But also in many things it remains quite unspeakable and ultimately it is questionable for its purpose. A comprehensive health strategy lacks a number of data and statistics, and they could be taken for the field of health by hundreds of pages and possibly from these data could be taken by some measure. Instead, we received really interesting information in the strategy which is even partial, but which shows that the Republic of Croatia is at the top of the world health standard in certain areas, while in some other areas it is among the worst or even worst. It could, it could actually be compared or shown by one figure as if you had a student who gets either fives or only units at school. If such a student really existed, we would be asked what it tells us. That would tell us that there is obviously potential in this student, but there is no systematic approach to problems. This strategy is also really necessary, although it must be mentioned here that health is an individual category of each individual, and that it is not possible, if we place the emphasis on man to draw conclusions based on some general statistical indicators. What is obvious from this national strategy, i.e. that a large part of its content is not some systematic plan, but that it is a number of depictions of actually existing condition, and what has made me particularly happy from these displays of existing conditions, is that stress is one of the most important factors of the major growth of the most severe categories of diseases in Croatia. The stress is therefore present in Croatian society. There's a lot of frustration. The citizens of Croatia are certainly at one level of knowledge, and according to this, their needs. They're at a very high level and they're unlike the possibilities that are at a pretty low level. Finally, the problem is obvious as health, although this situation in society should be resolved in our court in many other economic areas, primarily by social and other measures that would actually make the life of each individual better and more appropriate, not by reforming the health system. In fact, some questionable attitudes such as the introduction of the strategy are already being adopted. that in health, technology is increasingly expensive and expensive. Well, maybe some technology is, but in most cases, all the technology, even in health care, is cheaper every day, and we all know that from everyday life. As a health negativity, a poor organisation of primary and secondary, or tertiary health care is often highlighted. At today's level of technology development, however, this should and should be possible without any additional costs to establish the functioning of these systems without any problems. Technology should contribute, not do harm. On the contrary, that's what we hospitals actually have this picture of. We've got crowds where people don't even know when it's gonna be their turn, or if they're gonna do anything at all. The poor health situation is often justified by the consequences of the Homeland War, but it is nowhere to be said that this is due to poor conversion and privatisation. Carelessness for the health of our own population is evident from the fact that from all areas of this strategy we are getting essentially as the last of all those we have discussed so far. It is in accordance with certainly European standards. I must admit that, as is evident from the text on page 8 of this strategy and the European Union where man is seen not as human, but solely as a consumer. Therefore, it should be commended for the text in which one of the authors stressed that for the health care system there is neither, but literally none of the 35 chapters of the legal property of the European Union. In fact, in the European Union, health care is also a by-product, i.e. waste from other areas. This national strategy, regardless of the good conclusion, lists only some of the principles of the Republic of Croatia towards the European Union, and through the whole national strategy there is no mention of the numerous acts of international institutions that the Republic of Croatia has accepted and which are indeed aimed at the welfare of man and his health. They're for example. A number of acts by the Council of Europe, the International Labour Organisation, the UN, etc. But it seems to us that future health reform does not create such, but rather positive commitments, but, for example, much more of the IMF and the World Bank's position that forces us to cut health costs to make them more confident that we will be able to repay their debts regularly. The health situation is often emphasized. So on page 18 of the strategy, it shows that the number of doctors in Croatia is 2.63 doctors per thousand, which is about one doctor per thousand inhabitants less than in the European Union. So we need to increase the number of doctors, especially medical staff, which is of course from the next chapter. Given the data on the lack of medical staff and nurses in the Republic of Croatia, it is actually funny that there are a large number of medical staff at the Employment Service, which is clearly another one of our Croatian absurdities. We feel a huge need for medical personnel who, but there's more at the Employment Service than there are in sufficient numbers. The strategy certainly does not answer this question, nor does the solution of this absurd. Instead of any particular comment on health funding, I will quote a passage from a recently published book of my friend and colleague Matka Marusic's "Medicino inside." "Exactly for 10 years I worked in health care, though in a laboratory for clinical immunodiagnostics, but also there on health funding I learned a lot of things, all painful and startling. I haven't learned everything in any way, I haven't learned who introduced the total absence of common sense and who maintains mistakes in the system that children shouldn't make more than once. The system is clearly completely senseless and illogical, but when it comes nearer to the people who camp in it, it is seen that they are both wise and noble and well-meaning. In seeking answers to the question of where so many failures, debts and absurdities, the researcher wanders from person to person, from institution to institution, from law to law until he discovers he's spinning around and there's no answer. And if he chooses to answer now, tell the truth, he is the least known as an amateur by an ignorant, and the most difficult thing to say to a person who doesn't care about people's health. For a doctor of course, both qualifications are unacceptable, the laymen in this debate have no right to vote, economists do not come to work, politicians lie and ultimately no one dares to tell the truth. Of course, theft has been incorporated into the system of bewitched circle of negligence and ignorance. Although it's actually absurd because the system is so poor and so wasteful that it can only steal what kind of debt, what kind of obligation a man can't or won't fulfill, and basically doesn't intend to fulfill. That's why stealing in the system comes down to unhappiness, and outside the system, even more unfavourable vital indicators of the nation's health." There could be a lot more talk about funding, but I think this quote is more than a clear assessment of our club's health funding. However, the current financing of health insurance is to fund 80% of the costs with contributions to compulsory health insurance and is also financed from the budget. All the collected money is stored in a treasury managed by the minister, the government, with co-operation with the HZZO, which is a state and government institution, and so possibly and in some ways, there are very many inadequate financial manipulations. Now that I've got a chance here, I'd like to ask the minister from this pay phone on behalf of the HSP Club regarding the Ministry and the HZZO, Mr. Minister, whether that dog is waving tail or tail with the dog. Is it HZZO that actually decides on a health strategy in this country, or is it the ministry? And who is and what are HZZO's powers as one government institution in the first place? Health money should be excluded from social categories such as sickness benefits, regular and additional parental licences, etc. Namely, investing in health care is centralized through the Ministry and HZZO, which also condition the non-transparency of the proposed investments and the inability to significantly influence regional structures in the way of funding. Instead of any other comment, allow me about the financing primarily of primary health, the quote of my colleague and the same book that says: While the hospital’s system of work is incomprehensible and as such acts insanely, the financing of primary health care is very clear and therefore it is clearly seen that it is stupid. The doctor takes the infirmary to rent of course from the state and then collects patients, and the state pays it with some incredibly small amount of money per patient's head. No one is concerned about the health, social or economic situation of the population, or whether it takes more or less for its health care. It turns out that whoever collects more healthy patients, they call it insurance, works better and makes a lot more money. The paper comes down to writing instructions for specialist examinations because there is no doubt in the hospital can be done better than in the infirmary primary protection. The doctor has no obligation to really examine and treat patients, and by sending them to the hospital he reduces his work, risk and costs. That's how hospitals are swarming with patients sent for unnecessary checks. Medicinal products are prescribed according to the patient’s request, on request, which is covered by the term “take sick”. No one ever said to ask for sick leave but to take sick leave. The solution has been found of course in limiting the number of instructions for specialist services, but with the possibility that a very sick person gets more instructions, which automatically means that more instructions are given to everyone, and eventually those who have the right to everything and can't get to a doctor for free. Fortunately, most primary care is carried out in hospitals provided patients have the patience to wait or not to die sooner. The exit is required in raising international credits for the education of primary protection doctors by foreign experts who teach and our doctors to keep an eye on human immunodeficiency virus known as HIV, human rights and school violence. The results are estimated to be fantastic because doctors will transform into family doctors in primary protection. In Western countries, family doctors themselves solve about 80% of cases, which is a lot more than 30% of what is being solved in us and the savings will be huge. In primary protection awaits us therefore a bright future, credits will be returned by the state, and we are pleased because after a century of slavery it seems that the state is not us. Of course, the measures that will be taken are also set in this area, and they look like those hot passwords. The changes proposed in the primary health care section are the direct consequence of HDZ's rule in health because they have abolished the family doctor and their specialisation. They abolished their health homes, raised the number of insurance companies per doctor in primary health care, banned the use of diagnostic instruments and laboratory tests, etc. etc. Once again, health care is trying to squeeze into the social care that is now allocated to various ministries, and it should actually be in one place and separate from health money, thus showing ignorance, for example, because gerontology is classified as social, although it is actually a science of third-aged diseases, so a clean health profession, no social science. It is certainly necessary to work on the issue of abolishing political hospitals and organise them according to the standards of territorial, professional form of providing health services. And finally, let me say a few words again about funding. Re-establishment of new payment methods so-called DTS no matter what it means, for which I don't know what it means, and I haven't been able to find out by consulting professional people, instead of paying the previous one, it shows that we don't really know what we're doing ourselves, because first we've introduced a procedure against which it was a profession, and now we say ourselves that this procedure is wrong and that some of us are practically neither me nor the doctors know what it means. It is therefore necessary to stress here that we need to take into account the definition by which policy is thought of as a soup of tasks that must be achieved within a certain period of time for the achievement of a specific objective, and the strategy must be a set of methods for the instruments to be achieved and the components of constructive and modern health policy in the development and development of Croatian health care must be respected. This can indeed only be achieved through the consensus of all political parties in the position or opposition, which means that any segment that is in power will respect those provisions of that consensus for at least the next 10 years, i.e. by the end of the definitive establishment of health, health insurance and social care. However, here it should be stressed because of ordinary demagogy, that the way the system's financing and efficiency are not about any political consensus but about the responsibility of the government, because gentlemen are also going along with the power to assume responsibility, and not just the privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61470	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Agent Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61471	Thank you very much. I'd have to correct the quote, quoting from the book of Professors. Matka Marusic, by the way, and my good friend, can correct him through your quote, dear colleague. That no one cared about the social structure of the insurance company in primary health care. Of course, that's not true. Mako Marusic can't know that because he works in a lab there, fortunately, there are no patients. In the contract with the primary physician, the principality is paid precisely depending on the social and age structure of each insurance company. So it's quite a socially sensitive category, so we'll say Matko Marusic. The second is incorrect that HDZ has abolished the homes of health. Conversely, in all our reforms, the center of the event is the home of health, it was abolished by the Government in 2001, and we are returning to the health homes where they are abolished, to the counties and especially to the islands. It is also not true that we have abolished the family doctor, us as HDZ, because during our term of office specialization in family medicine was introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61472	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague quoted on many occasions Mr. Matko Marusic also said that it was the attitude and the club of HSP. Since I find it completely untrue, and to support it, let's say that the World Health Organization in Croatia is classified according to the mortality of children and adults in the A-E group as the most prestigious group. The World Bank also says from the point of view of health results, the system works relatively well. The workforce is well-educated, public health programmes and health services are well-set, and health results are better than in most countries with similar income levels. I would also correct the incorrect assumption that the HDZ government abolished a family doctor, but it strengthened it by introducing private practice, either through leases or by abolishing health homes. Absolutely incorrect, the health homes were abolished by the last amendments to the law during the coalition government, and now the tendency is to regain them in their full importance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61474	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61475	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This mini reform that is ahead of us, I don't like to call it reform because I think that the health system is constantly in reform, but that's the name that's been given to her in public to continue all the reforms of 1990, and I think that the common denominator of this great 15, 16-year-old period is very good, so unlike a number of critical remarks, I'm going to give some praise to that system, but not to the language of politics, but to the language of arguments and quotes. So, in 19990, there was a rationalization of 113 financial independent mammals, a disaster in the records that we encountered was known to everyone. During the increasingly difficult period that we have been going through including aggression against the Republic of Croatia, including almost a million refugees and exiles, we are the only country in the former Yugoslavia that has not destroyed the social category of its health system and the only country in which complete health care is obtained today, and in a way that participates only 1 to 2% from its own pocket. It should also be noted that so far all research has shown satisfaction and dissatisfaction with the Croatian health system exactly the same as in the richer countries. I'll remind you of the first survey that we conducted officially in 1994 or 1995, dissatisfaction is marked or satisfied with a score of about 3, 3.1. At the same time, a poll with very similar issues was conducted in the state of Switzerland, which then singled out 11 times as much as we did. The result was the same as 3.1, 3.2 which says that satisfaction is a constant category as well as dissatisfaction, that it is good to conduct surveys, but that along with them, not underestimating them should also be seen objective health indicators. So what do these objective health indicators say? First of all, you can also see in the opening part of this Strategy that we are among 35 out of 192 countries of quality health care and when you analyze the other 34 are far richer than we are and I consider it a very high quality and credit to all governments and all reorganisations in those 15 to 16 years, but also because of what was 15 years ago well in the system. You have heard, but it should be repeated that the Croatian health system is undermining 98% of all the prices of all state insurance health services, which is why we are also a world-class unique. In doing so, it gives 700 thousand hospitalizations a year, which is the top compared to the European Union. It gives 70 million reviews in primary health care annually and 50 million reviews in the specialist and specialist-consulary which is about 24 views per year by the insurance company for which we are the absolute top in Europe. So such a system needs to be carefully upgraded to reforms or mini reforms so as not to ruin what we have, and what we have to say is the World Health Organization and the World Bank as world health system reviewers. I'm quoting 2004. The World Health Organization based on mortality indicators, so indicators of cause mortality, mortality of various diseases, the state of health in Croatia is better than could be expected. I'll skip a part of the sentence and say, and the health results in Croatia are better than in most countries with a similar income level. So, a very good grade that ends with one but. However, these results have been achieved at a high price, and the growing HZZO deficit is causing concern. This was 2004, the 2005 assessment would certainly have been much lighter in terms of debts. Furthermore, what the World Bank said should be said. I quote the sentence, "From the point of view of health results, the system works relatively well." In proportion to other receipts. "According to the economic situation as well as the comparison of several similar countries," and I now emphasise this, "Croatia is closer to the EU average than other reference countries". So we have the Balkan money entry into health care, and yet the European Union's level of recognition needs to be given to all doctors and their associates because it is certainly on the burden of not only a good organisation but also their efforts. In addition to having a system in front of us that should not be highly defiled speeches and health indicators for which the Croatian Institute of Public Health is in charge and in June each year provides health indicators for the previous year. What did health indicators show in 2004 according to 2003? They showed the following. As Mr. Minister of Heart Ischem mentioned, a thousand 263 patients died, less in 2004, than in 2003, a reduction in mortality of 11%. In the same period of 2004 to 2003, less than 5% of patients died of cerebrovascular shock, less than 853 patients died of heart failure, down from 24%. Unfortunately, we also come to a dangerous area called different malignant tumors, and these results are significantly different. Why? We can try to explain it in two sentences. But first, it should be said that life expectancy is expected, someone here criticized it, in the Republic of Croatia better promoted than Europe, I am not talking about the European Union, but from Europe, there are other countries. So I'm going to say that in 1990 the expected life expectancy in Croatia was 72.6 years, today is 74.9, but during the 1990s, '91. Because of the large number of killed in the war that affected the statistical indicators, it fell from 72.6 to only 70 years old, so we raised it in 5 years. I'm sorry, for five years of life expectancy over an eight-year period. Well, not even one country in the European Union has succeeded. What should still be said here is that the infant mortality rate of the '90s. was 7.5%, 2002. 4.9% or the most important indicator of perinatal mortality, someone also mentioned it here, should also say what it was in the '90s, and what it was last year. Perinatal mortality, which means a thousand newborns were 10.3%, and now it's first time below 6, so not a percent but a breakthrough, I'm correcting, which is an extraordinary result of a very complex peritarian mortality reduction organization. I would also mention here the most common cause of atherosclerosis of the brain arteries. The rate of death of the circulatory system was generally measured by the quality of health care and the death rate of all circulatory diseases in Croatia in the 1990s was 111.3 and 87.8. So we have extraordinary indicators except in a group of malignant diseases. What about malignancies? We need to analyze what's going on with them in the dynamics. In fact, our projects to reduce malignant diseases in the 1990s had some results, so 212.9 of all malignancies died of 212.9, so 213 to 100,000, 94, this was reduced to 205, 95 to 201, and then something happens. In 96 it grows to 220, 98 to 240, 2000. 250. Suddenly after the good results rise. Why? We don't know why, several scientific projects are under way domestic and international, but we assume that this is due to the stress of the war because other studies have shown that four or five years after the end of the war the rise of malignant diseases begins. And in this package of laws, the proponent has just taken that into account and predicted early detection of breast cancers this year, so colon cancer next year and other preventable cancers. And also, this ministry has laid down mandatory preventive checks in this mandate for the entire population over 40 years of age at the level of primary health care and I believe with these three measures that this postwar curve will begin to correct and that this is quality in the laws ahead of us. So much for health indicators even though it might take until evening, but we need to say something about the financial part of the system also in numbers. We've heard more than once a catastrophic state of health before the collapse. We categorically argue that this is not because the latest financial indicators not only point to stability, so repairing the financial situation but also shows a trend of improvement that has been recognised by international reviewers and therefore they have accepted this mildly socially sensitive reform rather than drastically as was once said and as was expected by some. So, in 2004, the total debt was created was 7 billion, 200 million kuna. The total debt established, if there will be an opportunity to argue, was over 9 billion because only the last months have we discovered how much has been paid from the budget past this House's decision, but from 7.2 billion to today's total debt of 4.6 billion we have come up with an injection of 2.5 billion extra budget for health care and, of course, the rationalization of the system. Why wasn't the debt 7 but 9 billion? Because 2 billion kunas of expenditure incurred by 2004 were paid by law. One part of 750 million was paid by counter-sales or donations, I call it, Pliva shares to private owners of Pliva, on several occasions by the government's extraordinary decisions that are transferred from the state budget to HZZO a large sum of money. It was determined by the Ministry of Finance's inspection, and we couldn't have done it without them, so he was late for the result. On several occasions. Once 258 million, once 337 million, etc. Not to mention, it was all covered by expenditure to be added to the total expenditure, regardless of the part covered. That's why the total debt was over 9 billion if this illegal debt was seen. But what's done is done. Today, it is 4.6 billion and the total liabilities today have by HZZ and all hospitals together are reduced from day to day. That's two reasons. I said extra funding from the state budget that we've recovered from HZZO's commitment to banks, credit obligation, and special work with hospital management. The minister appointed a commission that works an hour with every hospital management analysis of their operations and I can tell you after the first 27 administrations, management of 27 hospitals that the result of their operations has been improved rapidly because they were shown what they had never learned or heard where and how business should be rationalised but not at the heart of the patient. Therefore, there is a requirement for financial correction of the business and the number of services is not reduced. And as a result, in the last year, hospital expenditures were reduced by a further 4-4.5% and the number of services increased by 1%. This trend must be intensified and further worked because there are still huge supplies in this regard. When we talk about financial business, then it should be said that the share of income deficits in expenditures from 6.05% is reduced to 4.66% and will be reduced to 3.5%, such as EU norms without a reduction in number and of course the quality of health services. There are so many supplies still in the system. I'll only mention two hospitals. One General Hospital of the Holy Spirit, which, now listen to this data, has reduced drug expenditure 18% in a year, for medical material over 20%, which in one year reduced expenditure compared to the past, I'm talking about fifth to fourth, 2.5% instead of increasing it by 3 to 4% and the number of services increased by 8%. We also have such examples in the clinical hospitals of KBC Zagreb, etc. So we have good examples of quality management and should continue to encourage them and give them the opportunity to share their experiences with others. Where is Croatia's comparison with the European Union? That's the hardest chapter ever. As you've heard, we're out $350 to $390, and we spend 450 a year on health care. And there's an insurmountable gap we have to discuss. At the same time, Slovenia singles out twice as much and some compared us in social rights. Our social rights are absolutely greater than those in Slovenia. We can discuss this with whoever you want to argue with. Or should I always compare Ireland's favorite to me because it has the same population as Croatia, there are still hundreds of thousands less. While we separate 450 euros, Ireland separates 2,000 800 euros annually. Do you know what the last poll showed? Dissatisfaction 91% of the citizens of Ireland and stand out 8 times as much as we do, waiting lists are longer than ours, no ordering, etc. Their health minister says the most favorite topic is to criticize him and health care even though they spend so much money. The difference between the European Union and Croatia is still in something else. Not only do we give much less for a relatively comparable level as we have seen from previous quotes but the addition to health care in the European Union is 15%. It's "out of the poker" they call or paying out of your pocket. We've got 1%, and after this, we'll stay on it. So this bill does not increase participation or Croatia's added addition to any healthcare service. The addition to the medicinal product in the European Union is 30%. If we consider all those medicines that are bought over, OTC medicines are therefore free of a prescription of about 10%. And we will also not touch it, but we will still be the only country in Europe that has a free A list of medicines without any extra charge. And it is social and I believe that you all agree that Croatia is not yet in such an economic and social situation that it changes that. Freeing from payment, and that's a few words to say. In Croatia, 60% of the population was freed from payment. In European Union countries, only between 10 and 15. And we won't touch it because we don't think it's mature time. So in Croatia, 2 million 600 thousand people were released from payment. And the rest of them have a full release of 50 and 80 kuna in that additional insurance institution in HZZO, respectively. Who pays the extra? No one. Except for the one who hasn't secured himself in this voluntary insurance in HZZO. And then it's really his fault. And we do not touch this reform because we believe and have managed to fight after long-term negotiations with factors of the European Union, the World Bank and so on the IMF that we need other criteria for Croatia where we have had 8 years of war post-war social depression does not allow us to have radical procedures such as Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic that have gone with their gross national income upwards while we have halved our own due to wartime Serbian aggression on Croatia. And we've managed to fight it, and that's why you have a package of laws that doesn't endanger social rights at all. The most likely mention of list A and list B was here. I have to mention why the legislator decided to do so. This is because Croatian health care is threatened by one major threat to all the benefits of globalisation. Namely, the great global facts in the pharmacology industry are doing what the bankers did. Take the top of your head. As they took 4 billion kunas to get Croatian banks to themselves now is the attack of the pharmaceutical industry and distribution. 7 billion kunas are obtained annually, i.e. in the pharmaceutical industry. Four and a half billion HZZO and the rest when buying different supplements with drugs. What's going on? First of all, global players, thanks to some domestic teammates, took a strategic package of Pliva shares so that no longer countries have any strategic impact on their prices. They're the most important suppliers. Then these same strategic players started to buy high-powered drugs. They've already bought three big ones, the fourth one's up. These drugs were founded by pharmacies, so large strategic players abroad become owners and Pliva without a strategic decision from the state, become owners of wholesale drugs and through this large part of the pharmacy. And what's going on? They also apply new business conditions. That means you have nothing more to say about drug prices. We're the bosses now. There's no delay in payment. We'll put you on a bank block. And we said, "No, gentlemen." With List A and List B, we'll neutralize all your attempts. And I believe in saving the regular supply of drugs to all citizens who need it in Croatia. And that's why it needs to be supported because it's part of a big strategy that few people in the analysis can figure out, and you believe it's very well designed but I believe that our therapy for this bad disease is also designed. And in the end, since the red light is just a matter of saying that in a whole series of amendments to the laws that have been fixed in front of you are a series of things. I'd only mention one. Devastion has been stopped, health care has been abolished, and this should be welcomed. It should also be said that the promoter has changed some of his mistakes in terms of paying the administrative fee. Whoever admits a mistake should be congratulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61476	Thank you. We have two corrections. First correction Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61477	Hebrang, a colleague, said with caution that social rights in Slovenia are less in health than in Croatia. Unfortunately, they used my consulting services and they have private health spending 15%, and we already have 20% today. So that's where you're absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61478	Mrs. Željka Antunović's correction is it? Who is it? I'm sorry, Mrs. Antunovic, we didn't get it right. Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61479	Thank you very much. Speaking of strategic players who influenced the ever worse position of Pliva, the distinguished representative Hebrang spoke of those strategic players who paid Pliva's shares. Yes, the state paid its debts, its debts to Pliva, the shares that went to that Pliva. But it wasn't a strategic decision that, which affected the worse business of Pliva. The strategic decision that Pliva makes in this position was to ratify the International IPR Agreement that you insisted on at the time of this now, at the beginning of the parliamentary majority's term. At that time, that ratification of Pliva lost its ability, the right to sell its original products as originals. Yeah. That's what, that's what destroyed Pliva.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61480	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61481	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This morning, before the beginning of this previous debate, I still do not know what exactly, but the previous discussions were very much especially from the ruling majority's ranks stressed that this debate should be professional, well-founded and depolitised. I must admit that I do not understand until the end what it means to be depolitised in relation to what today, in the context of a previous debate on the state of health or on the strategy or on these strong laws that are to be said before us. Does this mean we should keep our mouth shut about reducing the right of the patient? Does this mean that we should remain silent about the growing indifference in health care? Does that mean we should keep quiet about patients paying more and getting less? Or perhaps you should keep quiet that the health system today creates a deficit of around 2 billion kuna, and that the creators have been doing nothing concrete for two, two and a half years to try to transfer their sins to this existing state of government. So let Pedro hang when the citizens can't get what's rightfully theirs. Our rejection of the solutions offered by these laws does not need to interpret our rejection in the SDP as our rejection of the need for certain changes and debate on what needs to be changed. We simply cannot accept that solutions are required in a partial approach, that amendments to the law require an alibi for a poor health administration that is not in a position to handle the system in the context of existing legal solutions. Although we ourselves are taking part in this previous debate, we agreed that since most clubs have proposed this, our opinion is not changing, and I will repeat it once again since this morning. We've advocated that these law packages, along with the strategy that we could discuss today, actually withdraw. We asked for this because we cannot accept that the way out of the existing state of health is only in further reducing citizens' rights and increasing personal allowances. It's just unacceptable for us. In his opening address, Mr. Minister tried to explain that he was not late with the laws. It's true. He's not late for papers, he's not late for strategies, but he's late for a quality improvement action in the existing frameworks. Given the time spent for these two and a half years, what we have been presented through these paper proposals, through the legal texts, through the strategy below is the need for change. It was here today in the morning of the word and of the consensus. I don't know what consensus it was, whether it was political consensus. For him, I personally think that it is difficult for us to reach him on the matter of health regardless of which majority will sit in this House. But something else bothers me more. The lack of social consensus, the playing of this social consensus, is what we in the SDP strongly condemn. The previous decision-making on the unification of the debate has been opposed by the SDP. You turned us down. Today's united debate under great pressure and political but even more pressure from those 333 000 signatures on a petition organised by the union has been transformed into a previous debate on the national strategy and no more than seven laws proposing how to regulate the health system and health insurance system. This kind of debate is actually kind of precedent in the work of the Croatian Parliament. If it is taken into account that the health system and its formation are of great public interest to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then it is not just a precedent, but I will allow myself to say about the unacceptable and slightly arrogant relationship between the ruling majority and not towards democratic parliamentary dialogue, because we have recently corrected this with citizens, patients, professional associations and trade unions. It seems to me that a clear message is being sent to everyone. It's not the ruling majority of concerns for the minimum social consensus. There's no concern about the state of health of the citizens and health care professionals. Because if there was a concern, then this morning, this debate wouldn't have gone the way it did. It would not have been ignored for two-and-a-half years and rejected any well-intentioned proposal that he came from that could alleviate the poor health situation. The original intention to run through this extensive and complex matter indicates that the proponent does not care that serious problems and health system deficiencies are handled in the best way. Although the minister said he did not want to increase patient participation what is crucial in all of this can be read from all of these piles of paper that are in front of us is just that. That's all that's proposed to do. You have defined yourself in these bill proposals only for two key things – additional reduction of patient rights and additional reach in their pocket. As for the strategic commitment of the former government, Mr. Minister, you didn't quite understand or read it all through. The SDP, among other things, really advocates additional sources of funding as you said, but not from patient participation but from a different tax system, which would be suggested to further explain here. I will remind you, for example, that the previous government has reduced contributions to health care and, therefore, in the two first years of its term of office, left an economy of about 2 billion and at the same time left insurance rights intact. And that is why it is very important for us to hear all of this in public as much as possible from those of you who want to be heard as little as possible. It is our job to prevent you in one part of this morning and not only to conceal the real state and the real content of these proposals but to make such a package of laws. This is when we join all those who have recognized this so-called health reform as another citizen fraud and I reject it entirely. It's not really a national strategy. There are no clearly defined objectives, clear measures, time dimensions, carriers, monitoring criteria and assessment of the performance of the results. There is no clear vision of what kind of health system we want in the long term, which are medium-term and which long-term goals of health policy. It remains completely unclear where it wants to position itself publicly and in solidarity, and where so-called private health care. It is obvious that HDZ is responsible for continuing to overlap with one another in public and private health care, and continues to spill public health money into private matters. The strategy itself contains a whole series of information that shows the state of health far more beautiful than it really is. When read by someone who may not know, they do not know how our system works and what its problems are, they might wonder what they actually want to reform, so everything is so good. The nation's health indicators are so good that there can be no problem in the system. Strengthening social solidarity, which for us in the SDP is an extremely important section mentioned in the strategy itself in this package, remains at the level of only a paper promise. On the contrary, the strategy and the proposed package of laws are aimed only at reducing insurance rights and covering the health deficit at the expense of insurance and patients. The proposed strategic commitment to reduce the share of public money for healthcare directly endangers each of the 320 thousand unemployed, all pensioners and all citizens living on the poverty line. How will they start paying an increase in payments for treatment tomorrow, fees of 10 kuna for each doctor, prescription or instruction? With what money will they pay for the medicines you take off the basic list and what can they get only if they pay for them? They will remain to stop going to the doctor and convince themselves that they are healthy. For two and a half years from the Ministry of Health and Government, we've been listening to too much spending, unnecessarily going to the doctor. And it seems that health problems only create irresponsible citizens. It's really time for the government to wonder how many citizens are getting for the money they're making out of their profits, because it's nobody's money, it's not money, it's not HDZ, it's not SDP, it's not any political party. It's not money given by someone's mercy to citizens, it's money that they're giving away from their profits. For us in the SDP, without any doubt, citizens get too little for that money. The health deficit is not primarily due to irresponsible citizens, but primarily because the health system is not rationally regulated. The government has shown neither will nor ability, at least until now it has not been active, to do something in this direction. It is invested without a plan, and existing health resources are used irrationally. There is no analysis of the return on investments, nor is the effectiveness of health institutions monitored. Incidentally or intentionally, too much is in the health system non-transparent. From fixed procurement for the purchase of equipment and new construction, there are no criteria for drawing up a list of medicines, to waiting lists and the right reasons why a search is waiting for months. This is why it happens that health care is being more and more isolated and that health care is becoming increasingly more accessible. So it happens that one government contracts the reconstruction of the hospital for 70 million, and another government wants to pay 150 million by force for the same job. One of these benefits. I'm sure the patients don't. The health system is a place of very large inequalities for citizens, and the proposed laws will increase these inequalities. In the SDP, we cannot accept the strategic commitment and legal solutions by which the right to health, the quality of health care and the quality of medicines depends solely on the financial power of the individual. It's not reform for us, it's pure pressure. Some kind of blackmailing the citizens with their health. The laws of the health care package are poorly engaged. The unclear provisions leave too much room for arbitral interpretations at the expense of insurance rights, and many sublegal acts bring additional legal uncertainty to the users of health services. Instead of correcting errors and reducing the imbalance of power in the HZZO-health institution – the patient opens up additional room for manipulations to the damage of the insurance company. I will remain on a classic newspaper, a key paper, which the minister treats in his opening statement exactly as it is legally and engaged and which is at the heart of the quality of health service. The introduction of two drug lists, basic and complementary is a typical manipulation that is justified by the necessary savings. Without clear rules on the establishment of a basic and supplementary list, and not only priced, according to the law, there is a serious risk that, in order to minimise health care expenditure, there is no respect for the rights, or worse still, the needs of patients, i.e. that patients' rights are significantly reduced and threatened with the possibility of using the appropriate medicinal product. If a patient needs a supplemental list medicine, despite medical justification, despite mandatory and supplementary insurance, they will have to pay it directly. In doing so, the law does not define the criteria that medicines will come or be removed from both lists. The only thing the law mentions as a drug-classing factor on the list is the price. The lack of criteria and the law itself also opens up a large space for corruption. The impression remains that it goes from one extreme to another. Without clear professional-medical criteria, such unspecified legal solutions can be negatively reflected in health. Moreover, it is entirely unwarranted to transfer all the burden of savings to patients without adequate savings being implemented in other segments of the system, and in this whole package, the bars in the ones relating to the realization are not recognized at all. This law significantly reduces drug rights and leaves patients at the mercy of the market. While the law fails to set criteria to ensure an acceptable standard of health care through a basic list without participation. The proposed laws, except by reducing patient rights, do not provide any qualitative steps. Prior to the debate on some changes to the right or to increase insurance participation, it is necessary and possible to save in a way that regulates the system, modifys the way the service prices are calculated, introduces standard procedures, introduces monitoring of the effectiveness of health systems, and takes a whole range of other steps to ensure that the health deficit is reduced without further reaching the patient’s pockets. As regards the laws themselves, the Health Protection Act, which declares equality in the achievement of healthcare, does not provide for this in practice. It is due to an unregulated system that results in inequality, and no significant qualitative change in the proposed amendments and additions to that law is made there. Changes in the health homes themselves are also more at the level of the form, as the promoter has not made clear what the home of health should actually be. That old home of health, that model that made us recognizable in the world, it doesn't exist for a long time. Is home to health a fund-raiser, is he a place where they live and work a set of primary health care teams or something else? We think that the legal arrangement of the internal structure of clinical and other hospital and health institutions is not good regardless of the inequality of the current organisation and some of the problems that arise, we think it is not good by law to unify the organisational structure of any institution. Also, despite many requirements, the law still does not separate professionally from the business management function and we think it is really time that after all the debates, after everything that has been missed in this direction so far, we must not allow it this time. Let me get this straight. Over the past two years, healthcare has deteriorated, waiting lists have been increased, corruption has increased. The health sector's growth and indifference, extended payment deadlines for suppliers and payment deadlines for employers' refunds. Unlike the previous Government, which, in the first two years of its term of office, has charged about two billion kuna to the economy by reducing its contribution and established liquidity in the first two years of the government's mandate, a tax, a tax disease, is introduced, and healthcare is increasingly due to both the economy and the patients each day. Therefore, we suggest that you withdraw these laws, get busy, edit the system and preserve the right to health for everyone and not just for those who will be able to pay for their health in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61482	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61483	It is not true that the promoter has demonstrated here, among other things, and boasted about the relationship to various associations as it was said. In his opening statement, the minister literally listed all those associations he spoke with, negotiated and received support and did not know whether a rhetorical question should be kept silent about reducing the patient's right. Of course not, but there's no need to talk about reducing the law here because the basket I repeat basic health services remained the same, we're the only one with a list of free medicines and not a single social benefit is lifted for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61484	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Vice President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61485	Mr. President, the entire speech of the SDP Representatives Club is disqualification, abstract accusations, flat-rate charges without any indication of any example as Mr. Hebrang stated. It is not true that the government has proposed here and raised the question of the need for consensus. The need for consensus at the beginning of the debate was first spoken by SDP President Ivica Racan if you listened well, and the others agreed. By the way, you're talking about debts. Debts are down from nine to four billion. You are expert in talking about non-covered borrowings and without the approval of the budget and this House, your entire speech unfortunately is not in the spirit of creating an atmosphere for discussion constructively but it is a set of pausal abstract disqualifications and it is all your talk negatively and in this direction is... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61486	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61487	Well, here's some allegations they've already corrected, so I'd fix these other ones. A colleague said the government doesn't care about health, the health of citizens and health care professionals, which is absolutely not true. This shows one systematic work and, as the minister pointed out, many expensive medicines have been introduced so far, and we also see in travel and travel rights that these are significant newspapers that are well above what you have proposed in your laws and I think it is essential that it creates you here now unsatisfactory. And it's not true that he doesn't care about healthcare professionals, that in 2000 the salary was reduced by healthcare professionals from 15 to 20%, that the first time 10% was imposed on the doctor's responsibility, therefore the claim does not stand. It is also said that 10 kuna should be given to a doctor at each time, which is a health tax. It's not also true, because it's a maximum amount of 30 kuna per month. Then it's said how much they get for the money they spend, it's considered to be too little. I think it's getting too much for what's being singled out, and thanks to the sacrifice of a well-organized health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61488	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61489	Thank you very much. This series of incorrect allegations, I would only correct what reaches the green light. First, it is not, it is incorrect that their government has disbursed the economy by reducing the rates of contributions because the same amount of HZZO has been charged to the same amount, and then our government has to pay back the debt from the same economy, so from the budget. So it's just a confession to one bad move, because we've paid back the 2.5 billion HZZO's debt that occurred at the time. It is also incorrect that this government has deceived citizens about 70m euros in investment in KBC Rebro, as a respected colleague of your party has just admitted the other day that it was a bad decision of the government, not only because it was bad but because she cheated on voters and citizens because 70m euros were allocated from the budget without ever voting this Parliament without being told in one budget item. ... Bud. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the third to arrive. It is not true that the growing indifference is because the period of payment of the institution's obligations is 180 days on average, and that is to remind you of the same deadline as in the countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61490	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61491	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to correct from a series of incorrect allegations, two things. When counterpart Antunovic said a conscious social agreement was being played and citizens were being deceived. It's just not true. It has been stated that associations and professional societies have been consulted. And the other thing is that they've been deceived by citizens, because there are no respects for 333 thousand signatures. I'd remind them if the former government hadn't respected 440,000 defense signs, and then it wasn't dramatic. I'd like to remind you of 2002. Then it was a civil fraud when you declared that you were investing 7 billion over 7 years in health care, and you did it so that you dropped the budgets of the hospital that first year from 6 billion to 5, and you showed a billion that there would be investments. The budget and the hospital were monthly from 490 million to 415 which is the lowest ranking in 15 years. So it was a citizen scam, not what's happening now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61492	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61494	Dear Representative Bagarić, correction of the incorrect allegations. Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61495	With a lot of what you put out on behalf of the club, of course I don't agree, and a lot of it I judge incorrectly. However, the introduction of a basic and supplemental list of medicines called manipulation is indeed extremely incorrect and malicious. So, introducing a basic list of medicines and supplemental protection systems, you know that well, and also more than protecting patient protection systems. Which one? Mostly those who have nothing to pay for the drug on the supplemental list if it's equally valuable. Therefore, it is a protection in the first sense, in the first instance and the most important protection of patients. Thank you very much, and it's not manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61496	Thank you. For his word, he appeared on behalf of health minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will say that this last not only as a minister but as a man, as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, hurts. We're talking about a professional, depolitical, reasoned debate, and we're listening to something completely different. We're talking about worsening availability. I don't want to accuse the former government here, but I have to say for God in 2002, 279 pediatric teams in primary health care, paediatric care for small children, 2003. 269, drastic fall, we found it in 2004. 259. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the leading problem, that's what Croatian healthcare is missing, let's let here unargumented debates on what, this is the fall of pediatric teams, and that's what we first put into the National Strategy, made availability worse. Well, of course, because then the government didn't see what was going on. She was simply blind to such things, and we clearly want to fix it. He says he's late with quality and quality control. Ladies and gentlemen, as minister, I've normally read all that '90s stuff. the year it's about health care. Well, Croatia hasn't changed, Croatia hasn't come from where. Since '90. We've been here for years. This document was adopted in 2001, delivered in 2000. The document, a proposal for a strategy and a plan for reforming the health and health insurance system of the Republic of Croatia. He was adopted and passed by the parliamentary majority, your majority. ... Allow me, I've been listening to you, so I'd like you to listen to me, too. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is past both the government and your procedure. Please, there's not a word here, not a single letter of quality. So how can we even talk about it now? Let's move on. Too much is said to be spent on health care, no savings, no rationalization, no citizens. Look now, I quote from this section: "Operative goals of health reform, the limit of health costs growth and the establishment of system stability, the limit of health cost growth, the halting of the trend in loss growth, the balance of income and expenditure ratios". So what do we want? We want exactly that kind of situation, so normal. So, what are you attacking? Who? Let's move on. It's said citizens get too little. I will stand up here immediately because I consider it a single claim that absolutely goes to the expense of healthcare professionals and a direct attack on healthcare professionals. I will stand up here in their defense. These are quality and honorable people who work as hard as possible, who don't ask for work hours, don't ask for work obligations, and this is an opportunity to commend them once again and thank you for proving themselves in the Homeland War, and so on today. And finally here it's about that generic drug list being something that's really bad. I will read again to you from the Strategy and Plan for Reforming the Health and Health Insurance System of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted for the former governments where it says nicely: "The National Medicines Policy Project. Target. To rationalize the use of medicines. Tasks. Make a list of medicines and bring a generic list of medicines." Ladies and gentlemen, I think we don't actually need such an unargumented, politicised and unprofessional discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61498	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61499	I will correct the three incorrect allegations of Mr. Secretary. The first to refer to an unargumented debate, probably mine. Is 2 billion deficits an argument or not? Is the absence of criteria for the definition of the basic and supplementary lists also unargumented or is that an argument? There is no criterion in the law, Mr. Minister, that's what I asked you to do, and to listen to what the arguments are then you could probably recognize and how to solve the problem easier. You also said that the previous government was blind. It wasn't blind, but it was inherited by so many destroyed systems not in charge of these false 9 billion that are constantly repeated here, and it keeps staring into the eyes, and it's thought that it can be done by Goebbels, but there were 4 billion concrete, concrete debts that needed to be settled so that the system would continue to function and repair what was done maximum. And it's finally not about the attack on healthcare professionals it's about the attack on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61500	I thank and pray without the heavy words and epithets in... Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Sobol. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61501	Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, I find it incorrect that you have determined that the Strategy, the National Health Strategy, was adopted in this House during the last coalition government. If you consider it true, then please specify exactly which date and which session of Parliament was. We're talking here today about a proposal from your National Strategy, not the coalition government. And secondly, it is not true that the past government was blind when it came to the needs of patients and you brought it into the context of pediatrics, or young children. I would just remind you, your government is blind because already here you will now be a year old as it is able to pay transportation costs for the most difficult little patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61502	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61503	Thank you very much. Four articles of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President, say the MP must not be offended. Mrs. Antunović said our methods were Goebbels'. And I insist please give her a warning or remove her until the end of the debate because this way and this kind of vocabulary here in this home which has declared itself antifascism has no place. If that's her favorite ideology, get her out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61504	Thank you. I have indeed warned Mrs Antunovic not to use such and all things in the Parliament and you in particular not to use such difficult words when discussing this item on the agenda. Club of HSLS esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61505	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen! I say right at first that I will not participate in this kind of consensus because obviously I see that the consensus actually ends up on what Krleža described nicely that it must then be a Balkan pub, the light is turned off and who who it is. I think that, though, if we're going to be declarative about it, then it would be very good if we put these really our passions aside because obviously we're not going to do too much about our business. Otherwise, some wiser people have defined tolerance as a socially permitted form of hate. That's how it used to say what chauvinism is, says when it is. ... So about the same goes with tolerance. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's obvious that we haven't come very far and I'm afraid that in a way like this with this subtle about who made more or less that it won't actually be done much. Thanks to the kindness of fellow Letica, who sits there in my immediate vicinity, he has just told me that Canadians have a strategy that is so in a book that only has 392 pages. I just think strategies should be written in fat books. Not because the fat books are boring, but precisely because I think, just knowing us as we are. I can see my colleague Bagarić is spinning his head, but you all know her. You see, I remember when we were in the coalition in the last term then our coalition contracts were all in some three, four cards. I happened to be in Hungary, there was a coalition deal on two hundred cards just to predict every possibility. So the strategy must actually show and must give an x-ray of our society and hence what we are interested in and that is health care. You see, yesterday, I was in Osijek, I had a meeting, a close encounter with the unions, so I got this flyer, "We don't agree to health according to the principle of "Who has money and health" because the right to health is fundamentally human rights." The same thing happened here today at the entrance to the Parliament, we got the same flyer, and in some ways it's just the impression that otherwise our society is polarized not only politically but also by this property censorship that really these really inadmissible things are happening so that health care becomes a luxury and then those who have and those who don't have them can or are left to happy cases. But again, thanks to my colleague Letica's kindness, I've also received a book from a friend of mine, Dr. Matko Marusic, who is probably a friend of yours, at least that's how it is in this book, "Medical Inside" and writes. And I actually came across a sentence that I would ask the minister for further explanations because this really seems a little shocking because in a way he's actually breaking this stereotype about actually treating only the rich and those who have it and that the poor are left to himself. He says like this, I quote, "As far as the patient is concerned, it's not true that expensive medicine is available only to the rich, influential and those who have connections. In practice, it's exactly the opposite. A man would be surprised to see just how many of the poorest people receive the most differentiated and expensive therapy. In fact, the most expensive procedures are performed in the poor, and only this poor woman has the advantage. Now so... The rich and influential go abroad and it pays them loyally bankrupt health insurance." Again, actually, some differentiation is being shown. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I quote my colleague Marusic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague, it's scary, but it came out. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look out, it's that book.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61506	I'm asking you not to comment from the bench. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61507	My colleague, look out for that book, and without my quote, it's publicized. Mr. Marusic has a certain weight, as far as I don't know, I'm not your kin and I don't belong to a doctor, but just knowing, because at the end of the day you have to know Mr. Mako Marusic is also a writer and then I know him on that side, but this is the book that came out, the promotion was, there were a lot of people and allegedly there were big ovations. Some, though, say that what's really the point, is what's behind this. They say that somewhere in Western countries, some of these delicate surgical procedures are done right on rats and on rabbits and on puppies, that we are actually served by poor people. I wouldn't want that to be true. It can be like this and act very scary but these are the things we sort of talk about as a policy that in some way. Yeah, we can nod that, we can be very dissatisfied, but it seems like we really need to take this sort of thing into account and just some issues that we need to detabuise and I think this is actually the right opportunity to discuss the strategy. I come from a city where the hospital was built thanks to three then citizens of the city of Osijek who do not have a Slavic last name but are actually showing a lot about the tradition and character of this city from which it comes from there somewhere in 1875, somewhere a few years ago we were made 125 anniversary of the existence of a modern hospital in the city of Osijek. And now, if I say that this hospital that was built there thanks to those three doctors who then studied in then-Austria that is actually 80% if not more of this hospital today is actually a hospital that was created in 1875. What are you, what am I trying to say? That at that time there was actually a really high consciousness, a high awareness and that, as far as Croatia is concerned, that we have a long tradition. We haven't been in these jobs since yesterday. We haven't been since yesterday. And just that fact that we haven't since yesterday should actually make us that these very traditions that exist should be taught from tradition. It is always that warehouse actually some solutions that are possible both today and today that can be borrowed and implemented. I think that's why we're ready. It was said here this morning that there was a consensus. I said that about the kind of consensus I was about a little while ago, I had to listen to it that in no way do I want to participate, but it's going to repeat again quoting the book of a wise man who won't cause so much controversy and so much infidelity. It's a book called "Sena." It's an Indian who studied and lived in America and Britain. Who got the Nobel Prize there about ten years ago. He wrote the book "Freedom as Development". And he just, I was doing it at the time of the then coalition government as a member of that government actually offered a solution, a solution that this wise man, and not likely would not have been, would probably have won the Nobel Prize if he hadn't actually spoken about health care and when he had just said that health care must in no way be treated as a expense because it was then devastating and exactly the countries that wanted to be democratic and who had never experienced any totalitarian, monistic solutions authoritarian, authoritative that in fact a single relationship to education and health was important. I was trying to do it then, and it's not really common with us when you're prone to remarks, it's immediately perceived as actually a criticism and a discrepancy. In fact, when a person makes observations, he actually wants to improve a certain text and in some way to participate actively, not to hide identity, but to actually, with attitudes and ideologies that he represents as trying to solve. I know that, in the end, we are not all paid to read both wise and good books. It would be good to translate that book into a Croatian, at least like this, it would prove to be a good incentive for these very wise, theoretically set, to become part of and some of our knowledge catalogues not only to be someone's thing... when someone knows something or does something and then they can say it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it seems to me, in fact, that somewhere around here, there's the point of our problem, because everything that seems to me, and now I'm going to apologize for being aware even though I say I'm being fenced, I've been quoting your colleague's book. For many, he was you and the professor and so on. I know it can be, that it can be painful and just her, I think she's as written as a provocation. You know, provocation, being provocative isn't a bad thing. Even so, it was radio and Spinoza, and then it was excommunicated from society, but once we have to learn that there are heretics and heretics, and finally this colleague writes from a deep knowledge of the system how to finance, how organizations, how some things actually work in our health. And I'm saying I'd come back again so we'd really be aware of what kind of guy we are, what model are we gonna take? Whether this Central European model that actually showed one exceptional social sensitivity and we had it through, through the HSS, through this tradition of our Central European country, this when we belonged to this circle of Vienna in the best sense of that word, or we're going to take something else. This, which belongs to these border countries from there from Spain, Portugal, Italy and some other countries either I say or we will decide on one of these, of these solutions and then actually realize that all the reforms and there was a colleague of Cain this morning quite right. They cost, they cost, and I'm afraid it's not possible to talk about health reform without mentioning economic reform. It's not clear to me how someone thinks they might be changing something from hollow to empty. It would then actually, we would then move from Church to Shucker and nothing, and nothing better or anything, or with some shades and we would argue that the time of the Church was much, or some would argue that it was much better. The second one, with an equal argument, will argue that now, during Shuker, it is the financial model at all, but I'm afraid it will be just what the people say, "From hollow to empty". To not be from hollow to empty...... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I hope you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61508	So don't pollemize from the bench!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61509	You see how my colleague Milinovic is? Well, that's terrible, you can't. [[I can see that.]] A man can't work. That's exactly what I'm talking about. And the HSLS Club is about to go down, and we're just about to start reading this as a previous reading. To be a previous reading. That there's plenty of time if it's not before. If there's a lot going on between these two readings, there's actually a way to get the heads back together again, and now that I'm repeating these general remarks whether separate health reforms, public health funding, are actually nuances. Information. I think actually, so let's say that culture of drugs, right? Just like Cain said, each one of us has, and each one of us tangs it. You have a home. I came to see my mother the other day. I opened her medicine drawer or her home pharmacy. I came across, I counted 57 medications and I as a layman I'm convinced that certainly, that what, that it's actually crazy, that it's out of my mind and that it's actually this non-critical regulation of medicines and the lack of communication between doctors that we're actually creating new ones, we're creating patients. And we make them addicts, and then they're really expensive drugs, they're unreal, but I'm saying they're really things that at the end of the line we have to solve, but we're back to what isn't, and it's not any Marxist, which is that without a solution to these economic problems in our society, I'm afraid that our health will be what it is, and since we're already experiencing it systematically, what I've been doing in Parliament for 15 years as a cost, and not as a matter of fact, our part of the democratic legitimacy of society where we really show ourselves that we are? Not the political for everyday use that now we as who will defend the patient more or defend the citizen? That's really funny. But just to see how we can do it, how we can make certain ideas and turn it into practice, which is just as difficult and more difficult and there wouldn't be anyone in the skin, but obviously there's the whole problem. So our vote for this strategy and all this set of laws will depend exactly on what we're going to hear in the meantime and see how this famous consensus is going to be achieved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61510	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61511	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Kramaric, allow me to correct you when it comes to that strategy. I just got in my hand, you said there should be a strategy of some big, rush and so on. So, I think that's incorrect. So, I just have one strategy in my hand, a national strategy for quality and improvement of the health and social policy of one Norway, and this is how you see an interesting, cheerful bookbook of only 50 pages, and what you say should be detailed I agree with it. These are actually implemented under legal acts but also action plans following the strategy. And another thing, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations you cited when it comes to my dear Professor Mako Marusic and when you quoted his allegations as credible. So Marusic is both a monologue and a great professor and a great scientist. But what science is, he publishes in... But he never published what he wrote in this book to his medicine inside, which is a funny, light book and it's actually his free interpretation and has nothing to do with evidence and especially not with evidence-based medicine. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61512	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's fortunate that a colleague said that he was talking about this problem as a layman, so in a series of incorrect allegations he said that the poor only outside the rich can be operated here, etc. I don't want to pick it up. And especially, and Marusica puts in this context very serious issues, and I understand Professor Marusic wrote his book with hard research and that he understood it as relaxing writing, not as you explain it, and probably wanted to emulate his brother safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61514	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61515	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, Mr. Vice President. It is unacceptable and incorrect to accept both as a quote and as a provocation they send a note from Professor Marusic's book. That's what I'm saying from my own experience because as a 25-year-old team, I've operated on the most severe oesophageal, lung and breast cancer patients. On behalf of thousands of patients of anonymous peasants from the hills and my colleagues who I operated on equal access and very few going even to Zagreb and let alone abroad. Unacceptable and I never want to accept such a thing that in a serious Parliament such funny notes are spoken to at the expense of such a serious job that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61516	Thank you. I agree with that, but it is really difficult to correct Mr. Marusic's quote from the book of Mr. Marusic, under the correct assumption of correcting the quote of the distinguished representative Kramaric. That's why I don't think it's about correcting an incorrect quote. It is not the thought of the distinguished representative Kramaric. He was indeed quoting perhaps at an awkward moment and in an unfortunate place parts of Mr. Marusic's book. I hope you drop out of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61517	I'll thank you first because you really are, it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I've quoted correctly. I haven't added a single word to any of the same, and with each point I've even stopped to really...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61518	But what article did I hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61519	It's not you, it's a colleague. I have responded not to your injury, but to my colleague Caparin and my colleague Mlinarić, and you are just watching out, and it is very dangerous, it is very dangerous for a dangerous scientist here to vote charlatan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61520	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61521	Well, you said he was a bit of a science man, so... O Marusic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61522	Thank you. Let's move on. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I first notice one nervousness with the minister and with HDZ MPs during the debate on this alleged strategy and these proposed laws. Thus, the minister allows himself to analyse our colleague Antunovic's discussion on behalf of the club says we do not need such discussions. I couldn't believe my ears that we came all the way here, that the minister in Parliament assesses and determines what kind of debate parliamentary needs are and what they are not. It is something that represents a precedent that will actually embarrass this Parliament. Secondly, counterpart Hebrang also suggests strict punishment for counterpart Antunovic and says she should be quoted as "removing until the end of the debate". I'm interested in knowing whether we're going to bring in shooting for all those who don't accept what's called a real name here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61524	So don't overdo it, man! What kind of shooting? What's wrong with you? Well, there's nothing you can do if you don't overdo it!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61525	Then at least you'll send us to kneel on corn and you'll give us that punishment, since we're already allowed to qualify for performances in Parliament on behalf of the club. What kind of relationship the government and parliamentary majority have not only with health but also with patients, because they are referred to in these four laws as the way of discussion. So the strategy and the 7 laws are united in debate one. Well, that's probably because as little of them as possible could be said here, and possibly as critical as possible. So didn't we have time to discuss each of the proposed laws specifically because they don't treat exactly the same matter. No, it was as much as possible to hide and shorten, so let's talk about the strategy and the 7 laws in a united debate. What we got here is called strategy, it's called strategy and it's not strategy. These are data on the situation found, then maybe some wish list, but in order for this to be a strategy here, there would have to be an answer and how to do that, what methods. There's not a word about it here. It shows that there's really no idea, that there's no plan, that there's no program, that there's no vision, so clearly there's no strategy. But then we write some sort of state review, so we call it strategy. Is healthcare necessary for reforms? Well, they're necessary. That's what we all know is necessary. And are they offered through these laws? No, I don't. There's absolutely nothing here for reform. This is where the cancer is treated with aspirin and is still required to buy this aspirin patient. Here, let's just take one problem. It's a problem of corruption. According to Transparency International, 71.3% of citizens believe corruption is widespread in health care. 71.3, it's not small, it's not small. Now, are these legal proposals fighting the problem of corruption? Are they offering a solution? No, I don't. They ignore the problem, like there's no problem. There's some sort of landing ground there for four and a half thousand kuna. Good thing he got caught, all right, he should've been caught. But that's not the point of health corruption. The point of health corruption is where waiting lists are extended. Because with ever-longer and longer waiting lists for a review, for processing, some kind of a search could be born there. Because there, of course, citizens in their natural desire to get to a doctor as soon as possible, will reach out to corrupt methods as soon as possible. And now we're wondering, if through this, what's called reform, and it's not reform, it's not going to get in the fight with corruption. Is it done out of ignorance, out of impotence, or is it done on purpose? We haven't gotten an answer to that question yet. What is offered instead of such solutions as we expected? HDZ offers an answer, a colleague of parliament said, citizens get too much for what they pay. That's what's being offered to the citizens. That's the attitude. So how much do you pay and wait a little while longer? You wait too little, you'll wait even longer. It's a message from this House to the sick, to the patients. Offer yourself, watch as the citizens finance health care. They finance it through contributions, through supplementary insurance, through participation for each review, for each prescription. Now there's also a participation for medicines. What citizens will have to pay out of their pockets is expanding. Now, who goes to the doctor? The doctor's going to be sick. What generation group do they have most? Well, of course, old people are the sickest. But these old people are also the poorest in Croatia. You completely ignore the fact that 63% of the pensioners have a pension of less than 2,000 kuna. So how do you put a burden of treatment on them now, extra? So where do they come from? And to make it worse, the thing doesn't fix, it gets worse. Because the average age pension in 2004 was about 383 kuna. And a year later, 2005 means only a thousand 244 kunas. The most sick are the poorest, and every year they get poorer. So ask yourselves how they will finance it. They won't, they won't be able to go to a doctor, they won't be able to pay those 30 kunas, they won't be able to pay extra for drugs, they won't. He's gonna start dying, what else is he gonna do? That's what they're offered with a strategy like this and a reform like this that doesn't really offer anything. Who pays the contributions in Croatia? Employees. Who uses health care? Everyone. So instead of finding a new model of health funding, to introduce a tax on property, to put more burden on those who have more, you go the other way. You're going to put more financial burden on the poorest. And now you're still seeking consensus in this House for such a proposal. And when people tell you nicely about it you won't get a consensus then the minister says so we don't need such a debate in this House. Why do we need such a debate? What would be reform? Solve the different work of the primate. Because that's what Rozic called it. It's the dumbest thing to pay them. On top of it. So no matter how many contracts he has, whether he has contracts with healthy people, with a young population or on his field is mostly an old household, so he has more old patients, never mind, he has a head. So instead of paying him on a case, he's motivated to end the case if he can end it in primary health care. No, I don't. It's all one thing to him. He wrote a manual for a specialist or determined therapy. He's paid just as much, by the head. So the reform would be to change that crazy way of treating the primates. I know, but then we need to come up with a reform. You should sit down, write something smart. But you can't do what you've offered. First, it can't be called reform. Secondly, you can't ask a consensus on that because someone who's going to take care of citizens, old people, you can't get that consensus from patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61526	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61527	Understandably, Mr. Vice President, when fellow Stazic speaks, then it's full of it, it's fun to listen to it, but it's full of inaccuracies. One of them is that this proposal burdens me not to know those who are the weakest, burdens, thank you very much, those who are the weakest asset is completely incorrect. Just the other way around. It is also incorrect that Mr Hebrang asked that Mrs Antunovic be removed after her presentation on behalf of the club. That's completely incorrect. He asked for it, or he protested that it was reprimanded when our arguments were called Goebbels'. Which is certainly not lawful, but it is not for shooting which you have announced and what you were afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61528	We have two, three replicas. The first is Madam Representative Jagoda Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be a little less funny than my colleague Bagaric about Goebbels. You see, Mr. Stazic, you've been very upset by the way the minister talks with the MPs as permitted. If we're sacred cows, no one can talk to us at all. I'm not a sacred cow myself, but I'm not the one following Goebbels' methods, nor do I belong to such a group. Well, since you've fenced yourself from this dirty turnout of yours, it would be more understandable than calling us here. If by any chance we were on our side, we would have told you, you would have already been in Ban Jelačić Square and tonight at Dnevnik with a protest. But you've been deaf and still dared to attack the minister over some tone. I don't attack you for tones, but I protest for qualifications and I don't belong, I don't want to belong, and I don't allow anyone in your ranks to put me in any of Goebbels' ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61530	Thank you. Answer Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61531	A respected colleague is not involved in any cow or sacred or unholy. It is the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority as defined by the Constitution. ... You can throw as much as you want, but before you continue to throw, read the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It writes to you there, described and defined between the executive and the legislative authorities, and it is quite inappropriate for anyone from the executive authority to come to Parliament and determine what kind of debate will be held here, or what kind of debate is needed, and what kind of debate is unnecessary. By what Minister Ljubicic has done, he has disgraced the government he belongs to and insulted this Parliament. When you realize that, it'll be much better for this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61532	We'll hold out. We're still gonna make it, aren't we? Ingrid Antičević Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61533	You tell fellow Stazic that we will not be able to counter the fight against corruption, which is more than 70% of the international population in healthcare, according to an analysis of the transparency of the internationals. However, as much as that is true as you said, but there are standards in these legal proposals, which allow corruption. I'll talk, and I'll just point out the situation where article 158. The Health Insurance Act and it will indeed be as I say it will be, says a new item in this proposal for a mandatory health insurance law that says HZZO will pay for a private checkup of how long the patient does not receive an examination at the state institution within an undefined period. Explainedly, the whole thing is in favour of strengthening the private sector in health, and further to weakening the public sector. You don't have a hospital norm, you can work in private, and if you make a long waiting list, HZZO will pay you in private for a patient's examination. So this is almost legalizing corruption. This is essentially a concession for corruption, and according to the same model that we remember in 95, we made it possible for professors, i.e. at that time, to enable professors to open private clinics, and thus we practically devastated public health from which we have not recovered to this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61534	If you could just help me out with who you're replicating? ... Who did you replicate to? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We didn't notice. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll keep talking again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll hold out. Mr. Rebic also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61535	I agree we'll hold out. In fact, this whole debate of MP Stazic is completely decadent. So it leads to nothing changing like everything in health care is working. And if it were true that everything in health care didn't work, that health care worked after this debate, I think he'd be in some facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61536	Don't talk abstractly about institutions because we might think it's an insult. Let's move on. Answer, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61537	Watch your fellow word "decadent" means something quite different than you use but you have time to learn it, it may take at least some basic, perhaps the lowest forms of schooling to learn and master such words. But this other thing you said about the facility. You know, sometimes it doesn't matter what they say, it's who they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61538	That's where he might agree. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative and Vice President, Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61539	Dear Mr. Vice President, members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I did have some hope at the beginning of the day that this debate would take place, and we agreed, but we came to some consensus this morning that this was a previous debate and that it was very important. So we all agreed in the Parliament, but I hoped that there would be no such difficult political disqualifications as Mrs Antunovic said on behalf of the SDP club, so here is representative Stazic. I really consider myself invited to talk about this subject, solved by all the colors of the political uniform I wear, and I'll explain it. On behalf of or at the time of the former coalition government when the doctor’s strike in my county called HDZ fortification was zero, because I really felt as a doctor that we do not need to collect political points across the back of patients. The other thing is when my smallness was chosen at the head of the board of the clinical hospital center, so I was welcomed in the SDP River on the knife, because I was considered to be the one who came to change Professor. Halera so I said we'd see how he was doing and when we saw he was doing well we left him even more, no matter what he was replaced, or what he replaced our principal, let's say that, too, HDZ's Professor. Mlinaric, he was elected in the second term. And that's why I'm saying that I really consider myself invited to talk about this subject devoid of political color and uniform. I spoke to union representatives this morning and at the first moment I did not accept the request that this debate go in this form in which it goes, as a previous debate, but to go in the first reading, but however, when they presented 33,000 signatures then I realized that in fact we in the Assembly must also represent not only party colors of uniforms but also those who choose us, and surely among them are these 333 thousand signatories of that petition, regardless of some petitions in the not-so-long past ended here in the Assembly in the archives. The public debate as we heard was put on 14.12 if I remembered correctly and everyone had the opportunity to submit their proposals and I am truly surprised that the unions that have shared this petition today did not deliver their proposals at the time of the public debate so that possibly the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the RES might improve the National Strategy or Health Reform that the opposition disagrees with today. The 50th proposal came and we heard that of these 50 proposals, the vast majority was put in or combined in the 2006-2011 development strategy and in the new, or health reform proposed by Minister Ljubicic. But believe me, these 333 thousand signatures aren't hard to collect. You today put somewhere on the health system reform stand and most of these 333 thousand I am convinced is not familiar in the way we have read and seen this reform today in the Assembly and saw the core and depth and actually the goals that are to be achieved if the reform and the development strategy in the next 5 years are accepted in this House. Of course, public change, especially television and newspapers when they mention reform in the health system, so when, like the SDP gentlemen, they say that patients' rights are abolished, that a lower level of health care is available, that it is available only to the rich, to reduce the list of medicines, that those who actually have to visit the hospital once a week will not succeed because of financial matters and that rationalisation in the health system is not unnecessary but is going to reduce the extent of health care levels. The minister said something, if we were to talk about the availability of the level of health care then he mentioned the number of pediatric teams, and we all swear on how we have to take care of the youngest because of the nature of the job they are our successors, and we see that at the time of the former coalition government and that's the argument that we need to conduct a debate on this reform that is drastically reduced and not only that, I as a gynologist have seen and read that even the gynecological teams have been reduced in the period until 2004. I'm going to say one data from primary health care, gynecological primary health care that in 2003 something about 80% of pregnant women had 6 and more exams during pregnancy, and only 14% seemed to me to have had more than 2 ultrasound checks during pregnancy. I took my time, so I looked at the current data that says that today we came to the level that 91% of pregnant women have more than 6 health checks during their pregnancy, and 33% have more than 2 ultrasound exams... So if they were to de-commit the level of health care only on these two examples or the availability of health care services to users, then of course with these figures and arguments they should have and should take them as the basis of the debate in this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I am not talking about eliminating many homes of health, especially in areas of special state concern, which has added to the burden not of health care but of the availability of health care to patients. There is a lot of talk here today that this reform of the health system is for its own ends and that the ultimate objective of this reform will be the availability of health services only to the rich, or to those who pay for it or who can pay for it. Today, the data that states that the Republic of Croatia still pays 96% of the health services goes from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and only about 4, slightly less than 4% goes from their own pocket through participations and all those parts that have to go out of the patient's pocket. Also additional insurance, we heard from the Minister that, within the scope of the supplemental insurance of 50 to 80 kunas today, the rights and intact rights of those most socially vulnerable, and that additional health insurance which remains in the Croatian Health Insurance Service domain is one lacmus paper, or one way in which we correct insurance on the market, and when it is so much about the care of the patient I will also mention, and I was a participant of a single show just before the last parliamentary elections, it is likely that everyone will remember Glivek where they were in Croatia somewhere between 15 and 20 cases where families and that are, and those who are the poorest because the disease does not choose the rich and the poor, should allocate 20 thousand kunas per month for this medicine and you remember how to put it on the list and not put it on the list. So let's not pollemize today in the way this government doesn't care about the most socially vulnerable because if we were to go through arguments with arguments, then we would see what it means or which government was more socially sensitive or insensitive. Also, the rationalisation of the health system is likely to make it clear to everyone that it must be implemented but not at the level of providing health services or the scope of health services. So I'm going to say, here six months ago I did a lab analysis in the lady hospital where I believed or didn't 95 percent of the lab tests were located within the limits of normal, which means that a lot of these not only drugs but also reagenas and consumable materials used I'd say uncontrollably and not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61540	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61541	Here is also because of all this said and because of the presentation of Minister Ljubicic about the new reform I will support this previous reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61542	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61543	Thank you. It is incorrect that a colleague claimed that here are the trade unions only now came out with their petition and that they did so before there might be a government and time to improve their legal proposals. It is simply not true because four trade unions for fair, social and pension reform met the public, met the government and, in their own time, when they knew and first expressed their concern that the whole thing would go in this direction and when it did happen with the legal proposals that the government and sent to the Parliament then they just reacted, also giving comments that the biggest trap of health reform was its indeterminateness, and the trade unions are just as they announced they would not support it because they do not know what it refers to. And besides, they had very, very concrete remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61544	Replica's respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61545	In his presentation, counterpart Milinovic says that some of us in the opposition have not seen the depth of this reform. Well, I'll admit I didn't see it. For example, I couldn't see how there was a little more than half a year ago 300 million kunas to be saved by amending the Health Insurance Act, which concerned an administrative fee of 10 kunas and 30 kunas during the month and the return of transport costs only over 100 kilometers, and not 30, as it had been until then, was a health rescue. Now, in this proposal that the Government has given us, there is a refund of costs, some, regardless of the distance for some categories, and the tax is reduced to five kunas per visit or limits to 30 kuna per month. I also can't understand when a colleague Hebrang assures us that we, with much less money, have the same quality of health care service as, for example, there, or citizens perceive it that way in Ireland. Well, I can't even understand when the minister tells us that the difference between innovative and generic drugs is in the color of packaging. I really can't understand that depth. And if this reform project is so good and consistent with almost everyone to be agreed with, then I really can't figure out why the previous debate is going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61546	Second replica honoured representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61547	I would like to replicate my fellow Milinovic on his thesis that 96% of healthcare funds go out of the budget, that only 4% are participated by patients. Let's be a little clearer. 4% participate directly, 4% participate when they come to a doctor, pay medicine or pay health care or pay supplementary insurance. However, 96% are not any imaginary money that anyone here in the Parliament or I don't know where and yet at least his Highness gives and presents to the people who are sick. 96% of total health money is allocated to citizens from their profits that are contributions to wages, it enters the gross earnings of every citizen, and if he did not separate it from this country he would get nothing. This is what all those who work and from that is the solidarity of the health care of those who do not work, family members, and everything else. I would also like to replicate the criticism expressed in the example of Glivek. It's true, the health system that makes a 2 billion deficit co-finance every drug, but then the law has to lay down the criteria, that's what I asked for. How individual requirements will be resolved in medically justified cases when the patient is to be given the supplemental drug and the patient will not be able to pay for it. It is a very reasoned and justified criticism and a request for a health administration to resolve such matters in favour of patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61548	Replicate reply, respected representative Darko Milinovic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61549	Look, I'll do it again. The list of medications "A", the list of medications "B" and I say again we need to talk on the grounds and we who are in the health care should discuss it professionally. Of course, this reform or debate about this reform of the health system can begin to fall into the water because you sensitize the Croatian public we will say, one of the representatives said that generic medicines are guides that are given like guides. So, at the beginning, the Croatian public senses that generic drugs are not really the same but have the same effect as the originals. And as for availability or something mentioned by Mrs. Zgrebec in chronic patients who also sensitize that every time they come to the hospital, they will have to pay for the participation or fee which is not and does not correspond to the truth only once a year, and this is the first time they come to the doctor to pay for the participation and never again during that year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61550	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61551	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been listening very closely since this morning's debate and certain discussions by some of my colleagues in the opposition reminded me of that story about Alice from a country of wonders that walked and came to the tree where the cat was and her path was crossed in many other ways. Then she asked the cat which way to go and the cat from the tree said, "Where are you going?" And then she said, "I don't know." And then the cat said to her, "Then you don't care where you go." Why? Why did I mention this story? Because it seemed to me that we had just broken up politicizing over one thing that we were all almost talking about here this morning about how we shouldn't politicise about it, but how we should achieve unity and consensus and so on. And that's why I'm saying that since this is the material that we're going to be talking about for a long time and we're not going to talk about it anymore, and I'm not going to talk about it in a way that I support it, I don't support it, I don't support it, I'm going to praise it or I'm going to do it. But I'm going to make a few of my own views about this very important issue, especially because of the presence here from the Ministry of Health in the sense that, I don't know, I don't know what to say about, what I have to say on the basis of what I heard and what I think maybe in our debate, in our next discussions, could contribute to the improvement. So all those who face this issue in practice and in health policy focus on 4 very important things when we talk about reforming the health system, about the health system as such in general. And these are questions related to the so-called. 4E. But when we translate them into Croatian, then it means equality or justice, with efficiency, with effectiveness in health care, and it is not the same with public participation in the creation of a health system or health care system as it is. What it's all about is what encourages people or governments to change behavior would tell me here by reform. Although reform as an expression, I'd rather delete it from use. We can't figure out what other term to use has a lot of them, but here's what I'm gonna stay on because he's actually official. What is it that encourages people to reform? It's primarily an increase in expectations. People always want more and have the right to more and that's good. This morning, he was very convincing here, and he talked to Hebrang about it. So no matter how much you invest in health care, no matter how you achieve the results, the public will always be sensitive to that question and will always ask for more. And if you ask them anywhere, wherever you ask people how satisfied they are with health care even though the health care satisfaction is a very important outcome of the health care system they will say that they are not satisfied, that they are not enough, that they are not... It's necessary and it's good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's good. And that's what you need to listen to, and that's what you need to respect. Then the reason why you have to take care of the changes and go there is a constant increase in costs. So the increase in consumption is imminent. Here this morning someone said that they can't understand why we know that all technologies as aging don't know or get fucked very quickly. However, this cannot be applied to the health system and is not true. But in health care, there's always more consumption, and it's going to be, it's with us, it's in the world, it's always going to be everywhere, and it's going to be in every place. About why and how. It is known that somewhere around the 1960s, Western Europe has singled out only 3% to 4% of the gross national health product. She now stands out from six to nine. We stand out almost, here we saw here this morning from Minister 9, but we've singled out up up to 10% of the gross national product. So we can no longer stand out for health care but within that cake that we extract, we need to set it in a way that makes it the most of its benefits. To benefit everyone, to keep her exactly in line with what I was saying up there. And that pay limit cannot, therefore, lead someone in society to a beggar stick or bring him into a situation as is happening in the world and even to a developed modern beginning from the United States that if you are sick you can come into a position to actually lose everything and sell your own house. Thank God this is not the case with Croatia and this will not be the case with Croatia. Then another of the incentives for change are so-called. is a suspicion in the present state. So we're all looking and watching what's happening in the world? There is no man who no longer asks according to what I said before and who I would not know, despite all the concerns he has here, included the one who is in the world of this hour and which is actually the ultimate expression of this scientific achievement and so on. What are the reasons that the cost increase is among other things? Well, the reason is, there's been a demographic change. So our population, the Croatian population is getting older and older people are asking for more money. There's been an epidemiological change, so that's what they're called. Epidemiological changes where certain diseases actually carry most of the resources for their treatment and so on. Their answer to these questions cannot give any reform or anything but, in fact, change in behaviour and protection against such diseases and so on. Like the new technologies that I said were very expensive and so on. Where do we want to come from? Where's he going? Or what do we want to meet, or how do we even assess where the health care system is now? And we definitely don't have the right to politicize here. Is it fully known in science in this segment that deals with the other system assessment how is it measured? What's his value? So it can't be measured by me liking something or not liking it, but it has parameters that are exact and that can be measured. And these are health parameters. Mr. Hebrang wouldn't repeat them here this morning, but the minister also spoke of them on several occasions. It is certainly also a general morbidity, both mortality and specific and perital mortality and so-called those abbreviations "DALE" and "DALY" therefore lost to disability. And the expected length of life and so on. And Croatia thanks to God is on that scale in, I can't say at the very top, but very high considering the separation for health care. Therefore, the system in Croatia is functioning. And no one can say it's not about that. When it comes to the degree of satisfaction as the second element to be measured, I have already spoken of it as I think and of course, it can even be accurately measured. But people's dissatisfaction should be respected and so on. And the third element to measure one health care system and its success is among other things the degree in which the health system protects the individual from the costs of the disease. That's what I already mentioned. This is essentially how to protect an individual in terms of excessive spending on health care. The same is the same as how to protect an individual from disability because it is known that among other things health is defined as a lot of conditions, I don't know, among other things, social well-being and so on. And not just the absence of sickness, impotence and other. Which are, therefore, the outcomes as such, and they can only be followed and appreciated. Which are still so-called. Interstates that are very important? It's an approach among other things. So it refers to both the number of doctors and the number of institutions and the number of these and that and so on and he is in Croatia as he is. I think there's a lot that can be improved in this very area, and this government is doing these laws. It's quality. There's a lot to talk about quality. It's a whole science, and I'm really asking those present here from the Ministry to focus, so I can put myself on quality as such, not just accreditation, but generally on quality. And that's the cost in a certain way that relates to the total exemption from the gross national product we've been talking about. It's completely wrong to say how much I don't know, and I don't know, how much the state carries when it's looked at in general. You, if you give out of the state and you give out a part of the budget, then from the part from which you took away, I don't even know about health care, you took someone else's, and that's that. I'd like to conclude, since I can see that my light's on. The elements that can be managed on these three elements, on a health condition, on patient satisfaction and on these financial risks and on protection from them are 5 so-called 5 so-called ‘parties’. the elements of the basic elements to which these laws are dealt. And that's why I encourage the government to work on them, bring them in and advance them because we have plenty of time. It's funding, it's paying, it's regulation, it's organization and it's so-called. advocacy, i.e. social marketing with the aim of changing the behaviour of individuals, on an individual level. That's what we should be working on. I invite you all to that. And we have time to make our contribution and in the meantime, we all find out where we're going to go to get together with the government and make this system as successful as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61552	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61553	Here you go, Mr. President. It is precisely on the words of an esteemed colleague that we do not have the right to pollemise from the party's point of view, unfortunately this whole debate has so far been in the course of party reform, so I will only help further debate the data of the latest research as Croatian, which Croatian citizens consider a health system, or what reforms should be made so as to direct the debate. In fact, it is a large poll by a thousand respondents that says over 50% of Croatian citizens are unhappy with the health system in Croatia. Only 14% are satisfied. The second part speaks of the fact that over 43% believe that neither the former nor the current government has systematically done anything in the field of health, and 38% believe that the situation was the same as it used to be. And now, the most important situation is 50% and something the Croatian citizens believe is only going into reform for money savings. Because what do Croatian citizens expect from reform? It's very clear in the survey. What do they expect? New medicines and therapy, reduce waiting for diagnostic tests and make hospitals better equipped. Therefore, I plead that we are discussing it in this regard. That's what it Let's be sure, you did not do what the Croatian citizens say in terms of health reform, although they believe that the same situation is when this government came. And I say, over 50% of citizens expect reforms. But how? In stages. And stick to what's in the survey, research is being told. So they think it's necessary to go into reform. And then he wants to pay. New medications and treatments, reduce waiting for diagnostic tests and that hospitals are better equipped. Let's talk about it, not fight all day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61554	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61555	Well, I just partially touched that question. I agree with my colleague, but the part where I disagree will now point out. So, people's satisfaction, patient satisfaction, the satisfaction of health care professionals is one of the outcomes of the health system as such, one. And he can be measured. And these polls are very important. However, we heard this morning, we heard from both Mr. Hebrang and Mr. Minister, no matter where you conduct the survey and no matter how much you stand out for health care and no matter what effects you achieve with these people are mostly dissatisfied. People mostly want more. And that's very important. It's important to listen to it, it's important to respect it, it's important to change things for the better. However, we will not change things for the better if we in the Assembly use our position and television transmission to actually deceive our people and say that I do not know between the rest of the drug list basic and the spare that is actually placed on them, rather than to benefit. And basically it's the protection of those who don't have the money to pay for an additional drug that has the same efficiency and efficiency as this first one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61556	Another replica, the respected representative of Ingrd Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61557	You say we can't politicize here. We have to do politics here. Because this is an important political issue. We are in the SDP above all, and we are starting from these principles that equality, justice and solidarity are common energy, knowledge and work are based on common life and regulation among people. Well, that's the way we look at it. The question that matters most to each individual, and to every intelligent society. So our principle, the political principle of health, is for everyone, not just them. And your political action is exactly what you think the market has opened up here, please, and hospitals are some kind of capital society or, in the least, d.o.o. with limited liability. That's where they're worth all the savings they've saved. Well, here's a colleague of Hebrang's saying how many hospitals they've saved, so since we're from many stories and bass, it reminds us of an irresistible patient. So it's that good shepherd who learned to time his animal to live without food. And he just taught her that, and she died. So our different political starting points are different, and that's what we need to talk about here. Therefore, you do not need to hide that you believe that in this issue too market mechanisms, the market basis for who has money and health is dominant, and that is what we are opposed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61558	Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61559	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I remain in this position that we really don't need to politicize, because I'm keeping politicizing something bad, something unargumented, something that's not good. So, what do we need? We need to run politics and that fair policy. What does fair politics mean? Fair policy when this is a question, when we talk about health care as such, it can't possibly be what you just said. And you said, just a little bit, that we advocate health care in which more health will be given to those who have more money. So exactly the laws proposed speak against what you say. And the argument is that what you just said is really politics, usually politics, and it doesn't benefit anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61560	The next replica, the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. My colleagues, I have quite a hearing at this distance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61561	You're wasting my time. He's a colleague of the Bagarics. You have resisted to explain to us here that whatever you do in health care reform that patients will be dissatisfied, because there is always their expectations higher than what the health system can give them. If that's the case, then suggest we reform the patients and not the health system, you know. But I suggest you spend one day on the other side of the office, get dressed in an average patient, sit in a waiting room where there are 50, 60 patients, where they wait all day to achieve their minimum health care, then take a check and go to the welfare center to get 10 kunas of administrative fees, and then see if there are reasons why our patients, the average patients are justifiably unsatisfactory, and you see these average patients who are justifiably unsatisfactory cannot see what you and I are talking about here today, because more transmissions are not going on the national channel of Croatian television than on the national television satellite channel, and the average patient has no possibility of being connected to the satellite channel. Just as much as it takes for the public to take part in the debate on this subject and how full our mouths are of national, political and all kinds of consensus on this subject. You know, there were a lot more marginal topics that went on a variety of programs, and about what we want the public involved we transferred at 4:00 to a satellite program to watch there, there's probably a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61562	Nothing has been transferred to anyone's will, except for the will of the directorship and the HRT Programme Council. Replica reply, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61563	Thank you, Mr. President. I wasn't talking about local self-government. I was talking about the health care system. ... Great, that's exactly what I want to hear from you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I didn't talk about something I don't know about. You represent among other things local self-government, you know that and I believe you. But if I know anything, then I know a little bit about health care, and I was talking about it, and you totally misread what I was saying. And what I was saying, I wasn't sucking it out of my finger, I was talking about reforming the system and about a system that applies in all nations and in all countries, and it's like that, which is eventually handed over to the biggest, highest institutions in the world. On the other hand, since you abused what you said, now I'm going to abuse a little bit, let me. Patients cannot be reformed, they are not patients of communists who can be reformed and transformed. They're either patients or they're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61564	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61565	It's finally nice to see Mr. President laughing from the ministry, otherwise they're in deep misery. The minister has left, because today being a health minister is almost masochistic work and we need to be aware of that. They are pressed on the one hand between orthodox monetaryal requirements of the International Monetary Fund, between master criteria and budgetary and other deficits, between medical community and sister and doctoral demands on salary increases by 20, 30, 40%, between decentralised decision-making systems for the construction of health institutions, the construction of health institutions, the duplication of health institutions. It is enough for you to see what has been built in the field of urology or cardiology in Zagreb in recent years. On the other hand, you have patient expectations, completely justified, and you have a situation in this House where there are ten percent of doctors, some of whom are brilliant clinicians, I'm not going to single out anyone, but on the left, there's a little more doctors who believe they understand what they're talking about, and they don't understand that. It's like when I'm looking at the eunuch, I talk to radiologists, neurosurgeons, neurologists and laymanics, and I can see just a few days ago with a colleague of Paladin and I understand what's going on at the surface lay level, but I don't understand it at the core level, and that's the problem of many, and I, too, dear friend Hebrang, who is legally trying to defend something from the ruling party's point of view because elections are being lost on this kind of "pi ara" compared to health reform. So you could try to increase patients' rights three times, extend waiting lists and implement a different health saving strategy and achieve the same effects. I think counterpart Kramaric mentioned a Canadian health reform strategy. It is not as my colleague Bagarić said, no implementation program, but it is a serious study called... It has 392 pages, it's been working for two years. [[You don't understand.]] When it comes to the quality of the Croatian health system, I will say one thesis that is empirically impenetrable, and that thesis reads like this. That Croatian healthcare is at least twice as good as any other social subsystem. I'll tell you what the arguments are in favor of that thesis. My colleague Bagarić and I am sorry that he tried to talk a little comically about our mutual friend Matko Marusic, but we will talk about it for coffee. He mentioned some criteria of excellence. The World Health Organization made the only analysis of the comparative excellence of health systems in 2000 at that mysterious moment when the old government left power to coalition authorities and when the commissioners of the new authorities who had averaged their grades in high school were visiting health institutions, changing the heads of clinics and hospital directors, and I saw fear in the people of our colleagues by the unsecured commissioners and so on. coalition authorities. There are five criteria for the excellence of health systems. The first is individual health and the health of the people. According to the World Health Organization's analysis, Croatia is 43 places. Another criterion is the satisfaction of healthcare professionals, more people spoke about it. Everywhere in the world, there is a phenomenon of unhappiness, the unhappiness of doctors and the unhappiness of nurses. I've been doing a study among the generations... the last generation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was quite surprised that doctors in general practice, which is unnecessarily called family medicine, are satisfied with their work. So even more pressure, negative publicity, sensationalism, pressures, so the patient association, the public and the opposition are simply doctors in a very complicated situation. You must come in front of some waiting room as Mr. Mršić said, but you must come to the office when you see a neurosurgeon or cardiosurgeon enter it after four, five hours of surgery. They won't recognize their own wife from exhaustion, after three, four hours of work in this High House people go home, go to sleep, in the afternoon if they're from Dalmatia from exhaustion. Now imagine when he's doing it for seven, eight hours. When it comes to the third criterion, it is the satisfaction of patients and citizens with health care. There's something a little bit about how happy the patients are with us. The level of patient satisfaction according to the World Health Organization analysis in Croatia is 76 places, and when it comes to the interpersonal relationship of patients and sisters to patients in 83 places. The worst element of dissatisfaction and this is the biggest criticism of this reform project is justice in the financing of health care. Here we are from 108 to 111 places and attempts to develop something that is economically or economically unsustainable, and that is additional insurance in Croatia that should have been abolished long ago, not rehabilitated and trying to transfer costs to patients will increase this 108 place to somewhere by my estimate to 130 or 140 places. We must be aware that in Croatia the situation is such that the right to health care is the last straw of the rescue of the social state. People have lost their jobs, businesses, banks, and they're so feverish about that point. And finally the last point is the stability of the health system. Better to have stable health systems than unstable health systems that are constantly living in an atmosphere of different reforms. And finally when it comes to responsibility, if we apply the logic of some medical model we go through symptoms and signs of disease to some diagnosis and then according to therapy, we can say that Croatian health care is healthy, but that it has a chronic degenerative disease of its own finances. The responsibility for this is multigenerational and extends over the last 20 years. Therefore, Croatian nurses are fantastic, Croatian doctors are fantastic in almost all disciplines. The spread of corruption in Croatia against policy attempts to transfer the important public is of great corruption towards professional corruption is marginal. As a result, it rotates around 3.4% of total assets, which is very low. I see, therefore, that time stands out, because the responsibility for this situation is 20 years long, that is the basic reason for modesty, and not only is it a big week and that the consensus tries to find it because if we don't find a consensus then the idea that we are doing a strategy by 2011, a sea idea, since the mandate of this government ends at best next year. So there's no reason to think so long-term. All in all, I think it's a great shame that this job is at least being reviewed, that's what I've been talking about and not letting people who know about it, in Croatia there are very few and they would do it as usual with a lot of will and absolutely free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61566	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61567	It is incorrect that counterparts from Dalmatia are not at meetings this afternoon because they are going to lie down as he said. It may be that he goes to bed, so he doesn't see us, and just because you don't see us doesn't mean we're not here, but it means something that you went home.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61568	It's a very strong correction. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61569	Also, what my colleague Marin said was simply not true and I wouldn't even replicate that there was only me personally, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61570	You're not replicating it. You're correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61571	Yes, yes, I'm correcting an incorrect quote. And colleague Jagoda Martic, therefore not only today but also in that last meeting and ever since they had the happiness and pleasure and honour of being representatives of the Dalmatians never left this Assembly. Maybe you don't know that because you're not often this afternoon, and I'm saying this and that's why I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that it's usually a public impression that the Dalmatians are lazy people. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61572	It's not. Okay. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, correction. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61573	I thank Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Well, here's actually, from today's presentations, there might actually be a lot to conclude. Some might conclude that we may even be having a needless discussion today because in our health care it's still more or less all good, but here we are going to change something a little bit, and others say that health care is normally in some kind of permanent reform, all these years behind us and so there will be a future. In fact, the fact that in a document that has pretents to be called the Strategy and this is the National Strategy for the Development of Croatian Health for the period 2006-2011, we are actually discussing today in a package of 7 which is still legal, which is the law itself, which is an amendment to the law. With one we will probably all agree, it is always possible to repeat that the health system is almost the most important system in the functioning of a country. It is of general public interest to every citizen, i.e. it touches every citizen or individual of a country regardless of its age, to the current state of health, education, social status and the like. Of course, I understand, and it might be in everyone's interest to achieve as much consistency as possible when it comes to more significant reform procedures in this system. However, I, as a parliamentary representative, ask myself why, for example, today I should express my full consent and speak in favour of these proposed laws when it seems to me that even the governing structure has not actually agreed with each other yet. Is it about the proposals that go and signify some major health reform procedures, whether it's some kind of mini reform that's going on, if it's just some tiny cosmetic change, so I don't see any reason why I'm giving this support as a representative. I express my dissatisfaction with the strategy and package of these laws being united, because that means that here in these ten minutes and in this previous debate we should probably say something smart about each of these proposals and about the national strategy and about each of these laws because here's the time and we have. A little short on a national strategy that, in fact, initially on page four reads: "Although the draft Croatian state and the change of social order from the socialist to the market have passed more than fifteen years, a health development strategy has not yet been developed which would provide the basics in which comprehensive and necessary reforms should be implemented. And here we are today, in fact, having a proposal for a national health strategy of a document consisting of some seven chapters, of introductions, of historical gains, of a health system policy and of assumptions for policy implementation through a strategy, etc. However, I must say that I expected much more from a national strategy. I expected it to give strategic goals, measures, carriers, deadlines without talking about any monitoring of the achievement of the strategy or its success. Nowhere in the document for each of these chapters that I have previously listed has the answer to how something that is going to happen in that document will happen. For example, when it comes to the accessibility of the system, the document highlights territorial, time and economic accessibility. However, I do not see or am not sufficiently highlighted what is being introduced or changed in the existing system except for the part concerning and directed to emergency medical assistance. Or, when talking about a new way of financing the system, that part is not present in a way that would paint that future system. Or, when it comes to secondary levels other than the establishment of a data file, categorisation and accreditation which are components and the existing law is not visible, what are, for example, measures that will lead to rationalisation, the reduction of the waiting list, or how and how a system that will not accumulate loss will be established. Let me take an example from a recent practice in the rope family. It was necessary to do certain hormonal tests in one of the hospitals in Zagreb and to do so then you can not order every day in one month but have certain days when you can come and order. So when you call the hospital then they tell you not today, call in ten days. Then you call in ten days, then they tell you on the other side here you are ordered in a month in so many hours. Then you come in a month and so many hours, you give blood for hormonal tests, and then they tell you there is now one find will be finished in three weeks and this second finding still doesn't know when it's going to be done, so when you get that first three-week test in three weeks, then we'll tell you when you can pick up the other one. After that, you go to the Internet sites, find private laboratories that perform these tests and call to see when you can order, when you can come, how long you will wait. They tell you you can come when you want between 8:00 and 2:00 a.m. every day. And how long do you expect to find it? He says, an hour after you give the blood. And how much does that cost? Between 120 and 150 kuna, depending on the lab. Well, then, I'd say "who likes to be loved" or who's got that pay, and they'll have what the find says within the hour. Now, that's what I'm interested in. Where, perhaps, the minister can answer me, this national strategy is talking about how we will help this strategy or this package of laws that you are proposing to reduce these waiting lists, to make the service much faster and more quality than it is today. When it comes to the administrative fee that we have mentioned several times today, I find it unacceptable for me, and that it is still proposed as a model for the financing of the health system for the basic reason that I consider as well as colleagues and colleagues in my club that this system is unfair. We believe that this system should be built on the principle of transfer "from healthy patients", "from wealthy to socially endangered", which the system of administrative fees is in no way. It may, however, be worth reminding that today, citizens of Croatia are paying salary contributions to basic health insurance rights, administrative tax in primary health care, supplementary health insurance or participation, and allow them to pay for the supplemental list tomorrow. And that's what they think I'm not wrong about, and I've done a pretty good job of reading that they're usually free from participating payments. If I'm wrong, please deny me. And in doing so, Mr. Minister, you're actually very picturesque, but some colleagues have already said that here today, you're explaining by using a red and blue box. I didn't listen very carefully to whether red was more expensive or blue. Red's more expensive. So, the red and blue box is essentially exactly the exact same drug as I realized and as you claim, it's just a different package. But I still think he's gonna ask, so why can't I just get that red box, so I really like that red color, and somebody else can. Does that mean I'm less worth it because I don't have enough income to pay that difference? It's like when a kid in a store, it reminds me of that, you convince that some toy is exactly the same as someone else, regardless of what it is, more expensive, more colorful, more attractive, more beautifully packed. Now, I think there's actually one more explanation missing. In fact, citizens have the right to ask how medicines will be placed on one or the other list, on the basis of which criteria. Is that just the basic and the only price criterion? We can agree that price is motive, but it can't be the only criterion. And what exactly does an equivalent drug mean? It's not clear enough from the law, and I think it should be further explained. When you make that clear to the citizens, then I believe that you will know exactly what it means and why these two types of drugs are being introduced. And finally, I must also express at the end of my disagreement with the fact that the three proposals of the opposition clubs relating to the reintroduction of the fees for transport costs that you, in July or representatives of the ruling majority, removed from the law last July, so that they are also being discussed as in previous reading. Mr. Minister, that just means it. That now after this previous debate, it will be some time before the laws come to first reading and then until they come to a second reading. This means that at least for the next six months the costs of transport will not be for those categories.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61574	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61575	A colleague spoke part of the relationship between the market and health. I would only mention in old Split one of the most beautiful greetings, the usual greetings was "Hello!". Health is not a commodity. And it seems to me that this strategy doesn't tell you enough. Health is not a commodity, and it cannot be applied to the market without saying commercial principles. Health and when we talk about the health of citizens is a moral, not a market, and not a trade issue. It is clear that doctors, medical services can partly be on the market, but never on burden or on the heart of the health of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61576	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61577	... /The speaker was subsequently turned on./... Here, in my presentation, I would look back on primary health care, and since I belong to it myself, and we have a colleague from the clinic, so they're sure to talk more about that part. So here I am particularly pleased that here and in the National Strategy and in the Law on Health Protection tends to be placed on primary health care and preventive, and preventive procedures and several times here we have heard and it is indeed so that primary health care is the security of the entry into the health system and if it is well organized then it will certainly reduce consumption to both secondary and tertiary levels and here it is, in general, it is said that it should be taken care of means 70 to 80 public health needs and our goal is to mean these 80... After all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But how do you do it now? How to make the system functional, to be effective? To be content with patients and to be content with doctors. Here we see I mean official data that when we rank the satisfaction from 1 to 5 then we see that with us with 350 EUR consumption per capita means that they are satisfied with 3 whole and in other countries that have more double than us, let's say Slovenia with 743.1 or let's say Ireland 2800 and the satisfaction is the same 3. Graduation 1 through 5. And that's when we talked about pleasure and dissatisfaction with individual services. But on this efficiency, I think some moves have already been made. And that we have to point that out here. These are one of the measures that this government has put in place because they are preventive checks. Pre-emptive checks over 50 years, and I just have to say with regret that the data was that in 2004 there were 14 thousand views I think 800 and something, and this year in 2005, we see the fact that 11 thousand is 845. It's not just a lack or a doctor's mistake. It's about all of us who have such services that we have the ability to use that we don't use. And we see here the data also says that those who have approached the review that 40% of them reveal some pathological condition and 23% of them are sent to specialists. Knowing all of this speaks to the importance of these preventive checks that they actually cost little in relation to the profit that can be achieved. Also a newspaper to be commended and one step ahead is certainly to pay for the treatment procedure in primary health care. It's now that I don't count from the ECG, from the wound processing, and so now it should help reduce the number of specialist services. And here it is repeatedly highlighted waist also considers it necessary to change, necessarily to change this payment by headline because such payment does not really stimulate quality work. And that is why I particularly support this proposal from the National Strategy. This is exactly what the National Strategy says, that the principle of the chieftain will change and that from the variable part means pay designed, promotional and preventive procedures that should be I would say continuous and comprehensive and that should be covered and included by all of the Ministry of Health and Health Professionals but not just them, but all of them. Here I would be here to read something that Professor Stamper is and we all refer to him as the father of primary health care and founder of the World Health Organization, which he said, "The most important thing is to inform the people of the law. The most important thing is to prepare in one middle of the field and understand the health issue correctly." Now I wonder here how we're preparing the terrain? The way we fear people will lose all rights and that they will practically die because they do not have health care. And it doesn't seem like it at all. "Then the issue of folk health and working on its promotion is not a monopoly doctor, but we must deal with it without distinction. Only through this joint cooperation can we improve people's health or general health as I would say." So I would also say that in 1768, say, "The permanent preservation of health and the extension of life of the century, the experience of a deep age is in the wisely chosen rules of life and health and not just in medicine." And here's what the World Health Organization says now that the average of EUR 400 is in drawers. It has one good side and one bad side. It's bad that people take these drugs, and it's good that they didn't drink them. Because if we took all these medicines, considering their contraindication and their harmfulness to God, ask what would be of them? Then, what the Ministry of Health had before was good for us to decide health on our own. Because there's a lot of truth in that. Then, in order for us to have health care at the primary level but everywhere else, education is needed. Education and a doctor, but education and patients. Here, as you said, we can't reform the patients and the population, but we can educate them, and that's our job, all of us. So education, doctor education I think is going through this general medicine, and now it's well-developed this specialization, one stalking course, and I don't think there should be any problem here and certainly there is one continuous to say life-long education and I think that one now being conducted through various lectures and this pointing of the Croatian medical chamber should be more effective. I can say it from practice that it should really be more effective. To be in terms of programmed education that needs to be done during the year. That it should possibly be passed and that we can have one particular knowledge on that basis. Then, of course, it is necessary to promote activities such as health tourism, a healthy city, an active vacation, schools that promote health, health clubs and also clubs of chronic patients. The clubs of chronic patients, I must say here from my personal experience in the House of Health we have tried in all ways to stimulate both health care professionals and patients who suffer from various diseases but that we have had poor results and here I could say that in my segment of work that I am least pleased here. Certainly, telemedicine will also reduce this as an important step forward and should reduce travel costs and specialist reviews. After all, our goal is to add years of life, but even more important to add life for years. And now I'd like to refer to the Health Protection Act. Only this part means that I consider particularly important to me in terms of primary health care, which is the constitutional changes in health homes. It means that now, as previously planned, there is at least one home of health to establish three in Zagreb. We also warned then that the creation of a home of health under duress to create only one home of health that it would not get good results, that each county had its own specificities. And if we own the county that then every county will best organize whether it will have one home of health or more. Surely there is no need for them to be 7, but there is no need to have any but a reasonable limit can be found. It also raises the question of where to go to health homes, and some feel that they should be completely abolished. I absolutely disagree with that. I think this, because here we tend to primary health care, and the health care institution that is the basis of primary health care is home to health. Therefore, its services should and individual needs to be strengthened and should mean that they participate in planning, in coordinating, maintaining the continuity of healthcare, to carry out qualitative care, mental health, all that means what the challenge of future time is. At the same time, it is not necessary for everyone to go to the lease. There are nurses who do this, doctors who can't do it considering the number of patients they have. And that, I see my time is running out, so I have to say this thing that's most important to me, too. This is a proposal for a Health Insurance Act for Health at Work. As a profession and I personally see and see the Committee on Protection, the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Care, we all agree that this is necessary. But here it's about protecting health at work. So not only should accidents at work and occupational diseases be covered, but health protection at work. And that's why we think that in that article 4 means all these activities that are being carried out as specific healthcare, now there's no time to read it all, these aren't all preliminary preventive checks, they're all, but many other reviews, the activities that are being carried out, that they should be financed from this institution that we support its establishment. And I think it can be done, because today really the worker is exposed, when we look... transition, globalisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many are also burned and employers, but also workers in the imperative of profit and thus are exposed to many both psychological and all other difficulties. And that's why this kind of fund, or institute, is what we consider necessary and welcome and very important step forward. And to solve this issue of specific health care to make it more effective, to be more functional, and to actually get results. Because this is often how survival specialists went with unfair competition or depended on those who took their orders from them. So, here, if this were to be classified, and I don't think there's any reason why it shouldn't be to finance specific health care to get that good results. And then, once again, it would point out, in addition to all of us saying that the Croatian health care qualification of the World Health Organization according to the mortality of children and adults means that it is classified in qualification A together with advanced countries such as Ireland, Iceland, Italy, England and that I do not now list all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61578	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Ljubica Brdarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61579	Mr. President, colleague Lelic. I have to admit, after your exposure, I'm confused and worried. I thought when I went to the doctor or took my child there to see an expert who would examine us, to find out what we were suffering from, and to prescribe the right medication. And now I hear our doctors prescribe drugs that are not happily drunk, but are standing in a drawer, and that's less damage. I hope you didn't mean what you said. Turns out it's the patient's fault that he's sick, that he's poor, and he's asking the doctor himself for tests that will be done, medications that will be prescribed. I'm afraid that's not the case. I don't know anything about medicine except how much I've been sick with my kids. But I expect my doctor to know that he's taking care of us. So far, I've been going to doctors with full confidence. After your claims, I'm afraid it won't be like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61580	Replica reply, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61581	Well, here's my colleague, here's the thing I'm accepting is what you said about medicine you didn't know anything about. But here, let me still know some of that later not to reveal now the years I've worked in medicine. What is, I think you want to sell a demagogue like this that the patient's guilty of being sick, that there's no mistrust in the doctor. That's not the point at all. The point is that the patient is informed about it, we end up having patients' laws, so if you read it there, you'll see what's the same thing, what it means is one relationship and meeting a patient about what to do, that the answer is for his health, that he needs to be kept up to, that he takes medicines when he needs them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61582	Thank you. Honourable representativeplatimir Mršić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61583	Well, I'm glad to have mentioned a thesis that I think is not entirely accurate that health homes are being re-established. I think it's just defined precisely that in the area of the county at least one home of health is established. In the city of Zagreb three. We have islands where they must be founded. But I would ask the promoter, since this is a previous debate that when he writes a law for first reading, he will also read the Law on Local Self-Government. The Law on Local Self-Government states very explicitly that the jurisdiction of local self-government units, and local self-government units are municipalities and cities are primary health care. In my view, it would therefore be perfectly logical to finally allow cities to establish health homes, i.e. to establish health institutions that fall into primary health care. You have today absurdd in the law that, for example, a general hospital and a special hospital can establish a county and a city. However, a city that has the original jurisdiction of the Law on Local Self - Management cannot either establish a home of health, or, for example, be a co-founder or something called the Institute of Public Health. I would ask you nicely, since this is a previous debate to be quite certain about what is being done in the area of decentralisation, and this decentralisation cannot be brought down only to the level of county, but we must therefore lower at least primary health care to the possibility that cities establish health institutions from primary health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61584	Thank you. I don't know if my colleague's replicated me now. I was speaking to the Minister. I'd just like to say that... Imperative, rather than saying that at least one home of health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he's just left to the county that's in charge of primary health care under the law, as you said you would organise health care as you consider necessary. I think there's a pilot project going on. That there will be decentralisation of very primary health care, but also of general hospitals where then counties that want to do so will take greater responsibility. I believe that's what bigger funds come from. Because what we're getting from decentralised means, I think that's a good way to go, only that these funds really should be more. And I think they'd actually get far bigger results, because then we'd be more efficient and we'd spend them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61585	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61586	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are all aware that the health care system is burdened with a number of problems and that without serious systemic reform he is really threatened by collapse. In the opening part of the national health development strategy, it is found that the national health care organisation, poor health care costs control, as well as long-term uncontrollable health spending growth have brought the overall health costs to the top limit that the Croatian economy could endure so that a comprehensive and deep reform of the health care system is necessary. We have before us a package of laws which, apparently in the opinion of this government, should represent an introduction to this extensive and profound reform of health care. Unfortunately, it seems to me that what we have been offered is far from a serious reform procedure in the health care system. The government again offers us partial solutions that more visits fire measures than the serious start of the health reform. In order for any reform to begin, it is necessary to establish the current situation, to define the objectives that we want to achieve, and therefore to offer solutions that will achieve the objectives set. The health development strategy that is ahead of us has identified the situation, highlighted dominant problems, identified the state of health of the Croatian population, but lacks what is most important, and these are the goals that are to be achieved, deadlines for their implementation and project leaders. So we can say that this strategy is a taste of good wishes and the intention to change the existing situation that is no doubt bad, but how these changes will be realized is not very clear. In several places in this document it is found that, I quote: The basic problem of missing, the lack of a clear vision from the strategy of development of overall health. This finding is given in the presentation, and it can be concluded that there is still no clear vision from the development strategy. The only concrete move in the reform is that citizens will have to pay more expensive additional insurance from June if they want to be treated with new and expensive medicines, because additional health insurance remains within the HZZ, but in the future it will not cover the difference in the price of medicines that will be divided into two lists, list A, on which there will be cheaper mostly generic medicines to be paid from compulsory insurance while there will be more expensive original medicines on the B list. For B-list medicines, citizens will pay the difference directly or via the policy of one of the private insurance companies. In other words, instead of 50, or 80 kuna, the amount of additional insurance policy in HZZO, citizens will pay more in the future because their policy will cover only participation but not drugs on the B list. Furthermore, the Government does not give up the administrative fee, the only difference from what we have so far is that it is thought that because of the simplification of the system of payment instead of the current 10 kuna pays 5 kuna, but without a limit of 30 kuna and no one should be exempt from paying the fee. Therefore, it is obvious that under quotes reform of the health system, citizens will primarily feel on their backs or rather in their wallets. The fact is that healthcare generates financial losses year after year and the whole system needs to be stabilised. If we are already talking about the needs of health savings, then it should be stressed that primary health care has a major impact on overall health spending because the main health problems of citizens should be addressed through this basic protection. Primary healthcare should address 70 to 80% of health problems, and the situation today is such that primary health care is literally left to itself through privatisation and disbanding of health homes. Primary health care has been fragmented into a number of small unrelated units, health homes have run out of medical diagnostic equipment so that in such a situation primary health care will have to solve 70 to 80% of the health problems it should play in all its role. This is a bit absurd if we know that the first primary healthcare co-operation centre in Europe was founded right in Croatia, then Croatia introduced the world's first specialization in primary health care and established the first primary health care department in the world in general. I wonder where this great tradition of ours came from based on Dr. Andrija Printar's visionary ideas. One of the fundamental rights of every man is the right to access health services. The health development strategy concludes that there are areas with very low territorial availability of hospitals in Croatia and points out the southern Dalmatia between Dubrovnik and Split where some 140 thousand inhabitants live more than 40km to the nearest hospital, so that the majority of that population travels for more than an hour to the first general or clinical hospital, and more than half of that number must travel for two hours or more. In island parts of all southern Dalmatia, this phenomenon is even more pronounced. Split-Dalmatia County predicates by population of more than 40km from the nearest hospital, 78 000 and 18 residents were noted. In the entire county, we have one clinical hospital center and a county health home whose functioning is burdened by numerous problems. The home of health of the Split-Dalmatia County "Mastodont" with about 720 employees, a territory that covers among the largest in Croatia, is up to 100 kilometers away. The Split-Dalmatia County area is uneven, covering the coast, islands, Zagorje part, tourist needs are also expressed. Such an important role as the merger of health homes in a single institution was not brought by the County Assembly but by the county headship, without the prior consent of the representative bodies of those units in which the health home is located, which will be covered by the unification, which is contrary to Article 35(6). Law on local and regional self-government. Money for decentralised purposes is deployed in the centre, i.e. in the administration of the county health home. Permanent users in this case do not receive funds in accordance with their needs, resulting in the failure of peripheral exposures and the increasing deforestation of services they provide. There is a vague and unknown principle of the distribution of decentralised funds without feedback on the needs of the periphery. Public procurement is carried out in a very questionable way, the tender is late, they adapt to individual suppliers who, regardless of being more expensive than some others, get jobs. Since unreal spending is best shown by the case of the purchase of information equipment worth more than 2 million kunas, and now that equipment stands unpacked. The debts of this institution are growing year by year and have now reached 70 million kuna, and no one is calling anyone to account for such a bad condition. And let us remember that certain hospital directors were being replaced by an urgent procedure, explaining that it was not political inadequacy, but are being replaced by financial losses from institutions headed by them. As part of the health home of Split-Dalmatia County and the Home of Health Makarska. This institution was also built by means of self-aid because the citizens of Makarska gave up parts of their income in order to have as high quality health care as possible, and this House of Health is based on the services and types of examinations it has always given to patients outside the normal standards of home health. That is why he became a co-operative institution of the Faculty of Medicine in Split. And not only that, because of his counselling for diabetes and Home of Health Makarska was on the map of the World Health Organization, which the University Hospital for Diabetes in Zagreb was a co-operation center. And what remains of such a home of health? Just look at what he's in... The condition of today's building itself, and it was once a very nice building. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I would like to point out once again that fact that has been established in the Strategy that in the area from Sibenik to Dubrovnik we have only one Clinical Hospital Center. That information alone speaks enough about the availability of health care. For this reason, with the aim of discharging pressure on KBC Split and improving availability of healthcare, it should seek to strengthen the role of individual health homes that have the opportunities and conditions to reach a higher level of medical services such as health homes in Sinj, Makarska and Imotski. And at the very end because I am running out of time, I would suggest to the minister, given that this is a previous debate, that it may consider the possibility of developing such institutions, i.e. such health homes according to, or towards, small communal hospitals, because I think it would certainly contribute and contribute to accessibility, as well as savings in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61587	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61588	Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of colleague Matic who said the unknown principle of the distribution of decentralised funds in the home of health is. It simply does not correspond to the truth because the decentralised funds on which the programme is adopted by the administrative council proposes them to the county headship, the county headship gives them to the county assembly, and then it goes to the approval of the competent ministry. And the second amendment. You are constantly and incorrectly using the wrong name of the hospital in Split, it has yet to become a Clinical Hospital Centre, it is still a Clinical Hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61589	Replica, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61590	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Just before the law was formed, the Health Protection Act formed a single Health House for the Split-Dalmatia County, so a decision was made in November 2003 to make it unique, resulting in standing status changes precisely in the form of the merger of health homes in units of the area, i.e. local self-government. In practice, they had severe consequences resulting from the imbalances in development, since in particular there is Split-Dalmatia County, there is also a Zagorje part, there is also an island part, and because of the quality and availability of health care for the population, and not only in summer but also in winter, and it is in this proposal of the law that we have and in today's debate, the Health Protection Act will be formed and island homes of health, the possibility of forming another home of health in the area of a particular county, and it is certainly for every praise of the current bill to re-establish and form a Health Home of Brač, Hvar and Vis to raise the quality of health care, united throughout the year not only when health is increased, when the number of residents and potential healthcare users during the tourist season have been increased. It is the development of health care that is now proposed by one who corresponds to both the local population and by looking at geographical differences, meaning there in our area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61591	Replicate response, respected representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61592	Well, colleague Peronja, here you have said yourself that this has been for more than 3 years that the County Health Hall of Split-Dalmatia functions, i.e. that there has been this merger. I was just saying that the process went very badly, unprepared, not all the consequences that would come out of it were not seen. You know, it's been a long time since the acts were brought in, but it's literally been going on overnight in a very serious job. It seems to me that such problems as our county, or the House of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County, other counties that went into this process do not face such a problem, or have no such problems. Therefore, I can only conclude that the bad administration of one institution is, in fact, the idea that it was meant to be, which should have led to the health savings, that this idea was carried out in a bad way, but what is even worse has been going on for three years and that no one is doing anything, and as a consequence of this situation today, we actually have, in some way, the collapse of peripheral institutions, i.e. peripheral health homes, which I think is very bad, and that is exactly why I brought up this idea that we should consider health homes that were once above their general standard of home health as it is. Makarska, Sinj or Imotski, that they have become the same as themselves and are slowly developing towards municipal hospitals, not just islands as this Law suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61593	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61594	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Answering my representative question about the unfair treatment of persons with disabilities who need medical care and help at the house Mr. Ljubicic answered me that the health care in the house is defined by the Regulation on the terms and conditions of care in the house according to which there is a difference, according to which there is no difference in the conduct of health care between the city and the rural environment, is already being carried out according to medical indications and certain procedures. I am sorry that Mr. Minister doubts the truthfulness of my allegations in the matter of representation, and therefore doubts those who are discriminated against on that basis. I am sorry that Mr. Minister did not engage a little more and instead of various practices and payments and supervision of healthcare professionals did not feel the need to call for inspection to see how people do not work on the ground and regularly charge them for outstanding work from HZZO. Listening to today's debates, especially that of Mr. Hebrang on behalf of the HDZ Club, I was impressed with how well we quote in world statistics. I am sorry that Mr Hebrang has served so many statistics and reports of foreigners in Croatian health and does not listen to people who use this same impeccable health care. It seems to me that both former and current ministers like Nero sing and play while Rome burns. Please don't take me literally. I'll just list some of the problems. For example, pregnancy prevention. Many problems of children with cerebral palsy and other brain damage are associated with birth especially in preterm infants. Early rehabilitation of risky children. With us doctors still assure parents that they should be patient and wait without early rehabilitation. All of us who face some of the disability know well what early and quality rehabilitation means. After an established diagnosis requiring early rehabilitation, the number of professionals is insufficient, so therapy is reduced to one week to one month by professionals. In these cases, everything else depends on parents. After a year of life, there is a need for working therapy that can be used by a small number of children due to lack of staff and space. Only some of our hospitals or facilities have working therapy for children until the third year of life. For children not involved in hospital rehabilitation, the program of medical and physical therapy in the house is approved by a physiotherapist three times a week from 20 minutes to 45 minutes, which means in the best cases of two hours and 15 minutes a week. The rules on orthopaedic aids do not include aids without which the normal functioning of a disabled child cannot be imagined today. These are stands, then special roller or ball for exercise, custom keyboards, rehabilitation bike etc. As a rule, parents are not informed about the possibility of using spas and staying in them until the child of the third year, and in order for irony to be greater, this is suggested after the third year of their child's life when they have to pay for the accommodation for themselves and the child or have to leave it alone. I wonder what the parents of Swedish children would say about this treatment of their children in the Swedish health system because Mr Hebrang said that the same percentage of unsatisfactory patients in Croatia and Sweden. It seems to me that he forgot to mention that their health care system is at a much higher level and meets a lot more standards. I wonder if this reform, mini reform or whatever it is called to me at home health care will provide educated early rehabilitation physiotherapists, habilitation and working therapists who will raise awareness in the family about the possibilities of the child, the adaptation of space and more motivated treatment with the child, the education of parents and the household in them with daily treatment with a child who has some of the difficulties. Will alternative treatments be introduced, such as montesori therapy, musical therapy, or other forms that appear in the world? Will it introduce the training of a therapist in order to achieve a better quality of work and help children with developmental difficulties? Will orthopaedic aids finally be approved for legitimate needs rather than related to the child’s age? Will it expand the list of aids in the sense that there are aids that users themselves finance or co-finance? All that is not normally subject to VAT because the aforementioned points of view and bicycles are orthopaedic aids and since they are not listed all contributions are paid to the State. Will it allow parents a free stay with the child if the disabled child needs hospital accommodation? Will she provide assistance such as special tables and chairs for children integrated into regular kindergartens or schools or if therapy is conducted at school to provide mats and other help for quality physiotherapy? Mr. Minister, in order to bring you closer to one situation of a seven-year-old boy who needs 24-hour care and has become a 100% disability as a victim of a medical error. Don't walk, don't sit, don't talk, wear diapers, eat mixed food. That boy needs a cart that costs 27 thousand kuna. The state splattered and separated 7 thousand kunas. Since a boy with such damage needed by an anti-decupitary mattress whose price of 10 thousand kuna is someone from HZZO decided he didn't need it. The parents had to buy the mattress themselves, the state approves only one catheter and the boy needs five. The boy needs training with a therapist every day and the state approves only 30 such exercises per year. I wonder if these kids will find a place in this thing that we're discussing today, or if you're going to pretend to be ignorant, like you're going to be in the process of abolishing the right to travel expenses of this group of kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61595	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61596	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Health is the most important prerequisite for the quality functioning of society as a whole. Although the introduction of the National Health Development Strategy says that by entering the European Union, the public health system should be reorganised in order to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, I believe that we do not have to do this in order to adapt the legislation to the European Union but, above all, because of the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that our ministries do not know what who is doing because this strategy is in collegiate with amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, which allows large cities to establish institutions in primary health care compared to this document where everything stops at the county level. I have not been able to read from this text who will establish hospices and similar institutions to the level of the county, and according to the law, large cities can do so. An example of poor legal solutions in health will be illustrated on an example. Rijeka could not open a children's polyclinic against child abuse and neglect in a family whose activity penetrates the area of mental health by modeling it in Zagreb because it is not the city of County like Zagreb. In the primary health care system, the patronage service is not mentioned anywhere, although Professor Hebrang said in his term that the patronage is a pillar of primary health care. We don't want everything to fall apart if that pole isn't there. It would also be good to regulate the issue of the doctor’s compulsory training after completing a medical study and without which the young doctor cannot start working in the health care service. In fact, now most of them are forced to volunteer for that internship. The strategy said that the reconstruction and reform of health will take place, among other things, through centralised policy, planning and control of implementation, and through decentralisation of governance and accountability. For example, the Ministry determines how much and how it spends in hospitals, among other things, in the county and the county that has responsibility for its financing cannot affect the system of functioning. The proposed legal decisions do not clearly define the patient's rights, i.e. no number of recipes, laboratory findings and instructions, but will be determined by the regulation by the minister depending on the financial means available. So it turns out that the scope of law is going to be variable, which means that the patient will never know what rights he actually has at that point? This package or, as Minister Ljubicic said here, health reform does not solve the problem of patients and pensioners and old people whose health care is most needed and who are socially at risk because health becomes a luxury product that they are already having a hard time buying, and in the future it will be more difficult and it really turns out that counterpart Pecek was right this morning when he said that this package should include the euthanasia law. And I would add that this law should define that euthanasia is accessible on the day of retirement, so the funds for the health care of pensioners and their pensions would remain in the state budget, which would free many ministers of chronic headaches from lack of financial resources. No one bought the disease, and it's unforgivable to use it to fill the budget. A system of solidarity should be developed that would increase healthy isolation for healthcare especially for those with higher incomes. The hope of developing primary health care is planned so that up to 80% of all health problems are resolved and 14 points state what should be achieved? And this is listed as a revolutionary shift in the quality of primary health care. But I would say that Columbus long ago discovered America so that the primary health care system as proposed existed, for example in Rijeka, was based on recommendations from the World Health Organization. Time... So in a dozen centres of primary health care or popular macrocenters, which were mostly built through self-delivery, we had a team of general medicine, gynecologists, pediatricians, specialists in school medicine, cardiologists, physicists, physical therapy, dentists with prosthetics, patronage, laboratories, services provided by more nurses such as adult counselling where diabetics, heart patients, pressurers, etc., diagnostics for example ECG, hearing testing, ergometry, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] House therapy, epidural perfusion and so on. But by introducing the so-called White books in the early 1990s jobs of senior nurses were abolished, and the offices were rented to doctors who now function for themselves. So the system of integrated health, integrated healthcare isn't the discovery of America because we had it 20 years ago. It is good to finally understand that this system has been good and that we are going back to it, but the question is how do we implement 80% of the problem of people in primary health care with current equipment? So you need to invest again in the equipment and education of the professional staff that the system will implement. There is a reference to prevention. The question is which, what preventive measures and what personnel will reduce mortality from, for example, cardiovascular diseases, malignancies or diabetes? How will this be done when prevention is carried out through three systems? Checks of infants and young children, school protection that comes down to systematic checks and vaccinations of school children and patronage. Through school protection, doctors for sick children are discontinued, so they go either to a pediatrician or to an adult doctor. There are no preventive examinations of mammography or gynaecological examinations for women of all ages. Prevention to prevent expensive treatment, surgery, medication, therapy, specialist treatment or hospital treatment, which would also be the cheapest part of healthcare and is not practically implemented through the proposed legal solutions. The Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, for example, is moving with a project of free continuous mammography reviews to be financially covered from the county budget and local self-government units in which the reviews will be carried out. The Head of the Public Health Institute of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County project and according to an agreement with the state in financing, which was supposed to participate in funding with 1/3 of the costs, unfortunately, has not given any kuna and is it not known when they will give and will give for such a single project at all? Here's from these few indications about this whole set of laws I think that from what we've heard in the course of the debate, I think it's enough said that one system like this would completely withdraw from the process and prepare a much more extensive and more serious proposal that will indeed give positive results for all citizens in one future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61597	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61598	You're telling your colleagues that it's not the discovery of America's desired system and the quality of the services you've listed up to the 1990s. It's not exactly America's discovery. But the discovery of Americans or American doctors about our system, or the consequences of the success of that system in the 1990s, specifically in the city of Zadar when they came as doctors without borders and miraculously marveled at the fact that you, the experience they had, later passed on to America, were investigating why and how in one city under siege, under grenades without electricity, without water, no sepsis, no poisoning. There are no epidemics. It was weird for them. And then, at first, they couldn't give an answer or figure out the situation, and their research showed it clearly later, and that's what they published to the Zadar doctors, and that's the only reason why it was a great prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61599	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61600	Sir, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to teach you the same thing, and I'm going to say some of the conclusions we won on the public stands in Umag on April 3rd of this year. So I'm going to pick up where I left off. So I decided that the national strategy must establish minimum standards under which it cannot be guaranteed the right and availability of healthcare for all citizens. Furthermore, there is a demand for participation in health costs according to individual economic opportunities, so even more social approach than we have ever had. And it is generally believed that the national strategy, as proposed, is not good enough. We didn't say it was bad, we said it wasn't good enough to ensure a stronger transformation of the system. As far as health insurance is concerned. It is required to retain a non-profit, unlike all these proposals, non-profit supplementary health insurance, a kind of solidarity register covering services and medicines, and it is said that the price is always to be discussed. Administrative fees are requested to be abolished in view of their non-social characteristics and something new is sought, but I believe very much needed by this society, a policy is required, a mandatory health insurance policy that would require citizens to know what extent of the right covered by compulsory health insurance. These are required to define the list of medicines and to be published before the adoption of this law. As far as we're concerned, we've got a problem around Umag. In fact, between the 1970s and the '80s, the entire Bustina funded the construction of a hospital in Izola and we practically have 30 beds reserved for our citizens from Istria in Izola. However, they are not used because there is no interstate agreement, there is no agreement between the two ministries to make it easier for these people to go to the hospital, because the hospital is 20km away, and the first hospital, either in Rijeka or Pula, is 75km away, which significantly reduces travel costs. So, I'd like to ask you to mark it as a problem, Mr. Minister, and let's try and work something out for these people. What is otherwise sought, and the gathering was mostly citizens of older age, an increased level of home care is required. More stationers or geriatric centers. It is also proposed that voluntary fees and costs be paid in the home to free the payment of taxes and contributions as activities of particular social interest. Otherwise, in the national strategy and the whole package of laws, it also discussed the coordination of the Croatian Pension Party and adopted the following assessments and views. The coordination estimates that the proposed package of laws does not substantially change in the health system, but significantly worsens the status of users of health services. If we're mistaken, that's better. We have plenty of time in this previous debate, in two readings to figure it out and harden it. The co-ordination requires full implementation of the Croatian Democratic Community and HSU agreement of 3 December 2003 in the section relating to health care reform, in a way that will ensure the primary health care priority that should become the basis of the health care system in order to satisfy 80% of citizens' health needs at that level. As part of this protection, define the work of a family doctor in the patient’s home office and create adequate working conditions, ensure maximum impact on preventive healthcare. Organize specialist consular health care as primary health care to eliminate long-term patient waiting. The scope of health care through the definition of a standard health care package in the framework of health insurance, that all persons aged 65 and older should be freed from participations in the cost of treatment and medicines. The formation and composition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance shall be composed of equal representatives of insurance, pensioners, employers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, coordination proposes that the right to use medicines established by the basic and supplemental list of medicinal products should be established by law. Some medicines on the list of medicines can be participated from a supplementary health insurance policy that works on a non-profit basis in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, or personal participation of users. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act must clearly define the scope of the right to health care, as appropriate to the health needs of citizens, by respecting the material opportunities of society and individuals. The coordination considers that the administrative fee as a model for the financing of the healthcare system is unfair without building an asset or other censorship because it prevents the availability of healthcare to the most vulnerable and poor patients. We expect that representatives of this coordination, as agreed by the agreement and established and now have the opportunity to engage more actively, to develop individual health reform documents, including draft laws. Otherwise, I would personally prefer a presentation of the problem, a solution. Either we agree that it's bad, and with this as a solution we also agree or disagree that it's a good solution. But I don't think this assembly is suitable for that kind of presentation, but we should do it in some other way, but I think it would be much better quality than political, let's say in a political game to discuss this issue. Otherwise, it was said here by Mrs Antunovic that these are the separations of workers from their gross salary, that the contribution to health insurance is the separation of workers. It's just not true. That's the cost of the work. So that's the employer's separation. I agree that it was better when half the health care and half the pension was paid and half the salary, because then all the participants in the procedure had responsibility both for the pension system and according to the health system. However, the fact is that the contribution to health insurance is the cost of the employer. Next, I'd have to ask the minister about what he said today. Why must we always learn from others and neglect our quality experiences? I personally believe that our experiences in the health care system are of quality, that many have learned from us. And we wouldn't always have to look at other people's backyards and even under the coercion of the world's financial powers. What I would particularly refer to, and no one talked about it, also said that the support of the Health Insurance Act for health care at work had been given to social partners. That's where I'm building up. I understand why the law was supported by employers, because they aim to pass in this system as cheaply as possible. However, I do not understand why such support was given by the trade unions. Obviously, they gave it to an unseen or not deep enough to deal with the functioning of the work protection system. I personally know this area, I was a negotiator on the subject, in 2002, when we last changed the law, when the last changes and additions of the Labour Protection Act were carried out. I know what the situation is in that power and I cannot accept the claims made by Dr. Andrija Hebranka in the medical papers, and they say: Health care at work is adorning the ineffectiveness of the organisation, the profession and the lack of prevention of Hebrang claims, and adds that there are still no accurate records of injuries on work and occupational diseases, employers are not stimulated for prevention, they are not punished for negligence and the lack of staff training at the patient's reception, I don't know what he meant to say. In addition, health insurance at work should not have been returned to HZZO in 2002, it should now be re-separated from the general insurance of Hebrang and placed either on the market or into a separate fund and the introduction of special insurance cards and special charges. A new Labour Protection Act should also be adopted to redefined health care at work. It's only said in a small part of it exactly. It is not a work protection organisation and a lack of prevention, a problem of lack of rules and order of protection at work. This is a problem of insufficient supervision, ineffectiveness of the courts and if in which areas they need or working courts and/or institutionalised peace councils it is this area. There are precise records of injuries to work and occupational diseases, there are clear sublegal acts that regulate how to work with damages and hazards at work, periodic testing of machines, devices and installations and previous and periodic checks of workers on jobs with special working conditions. So there's a lot of details. In Croatia, we pensioners think this is a good step, so this could make a good law just take a little patience to listen to each other and close an open circle in this system for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61601	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Damir Cain. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to debate. Next, distinguished representative Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61602	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, two hours ago, Mr. Agent Letica, here's the accident, said we're doctors here in a complicated situation. We probably are, because when a person decides to discuss this, ask himself how to discuss it, how to say everything that is to be said as a doctor and as a representative and as a member of the Croatian Medical Chamber and as a provider and recipient and user of health services, as a citizen of Croatia, also as a parent of children who need all possible attention and prevention as well as all children and all Croatian citizens. On the one hand, we have one not only media picture in Croatian health as it is worsened, there is increased mistrust with the patient – doctor. I dare say the health system as well as a large part of this debate politicised, and on the other hand, many forget the results of a large anonymous survey that has shown markedness and which has proved positive about the ethics of healthcare professionals in providing health services. The globalization processes around the world are trying to influence health policy, and so also one small country in the recent past, burdened with war and refugee, causing the separation of the layers of the population of the rich and the poor, and few peoples experience this as a provocation of injustice. Croatia is the only Southeast European country that has maintained the social system in its entirety, although it has been hit most severely by war. The objectively looking at the financial situation has been poor for years, but we also have indicators of certain improvements certainly insufficient for the overall satisfaction. Every attempt I dare say to the Ministry of Optimism, we welcome rationalization with the need of many to draw on their club uniform and we cannot possibly say what the minister likes to say, put together a team. It's hard to get into it, and it's even harder to feel one who loses representative status, and probably because no government decides on radical procedures except for the one that tries to offer a framework and the content of the beginning of something that should be a long, perfect model to be treated we don't have anywhere near or around the world. There are no members in the European Union who have no difficulties in financing health and all try to reduce consumption, introduce new funding models. In the European environment, Switzerland stands out the most for health care, the European Union average is 8.8% of gross national income, and we are only here above that. I will quote one conclusion from the 2004 Copenhagen World Health Organization, which told Croatia. Based on the motility indicators, the state of health in Croatia is better than could be expected according to the given economic situation as well as the comparison with several similar countries. Indeed, according to several health indicators, Croatia is approaching the EU average more than a certain number of reference countries, completed the quote. Something similar comes from the World Bank's 2005 report, and I quote: "From the point of view of health results, the system works relatively well, the workforce is well educated, public health programmes and health services are well set, and health results are better than in most countries with similar income levels. However, these results were achieved at a high price.", finished quote. The basic problem is that health care is being financed here we heard different data from 96, 98% from the budget, and only 2-4% from the surcharge. Incomes rise slower than prices rise. In addition to hospitals, there is also a major problem with medicines spent as much as 3.1 billion kunas over the past year. According to data, the World Health Organization also has 400 euros of medicines in the average drawer, and 40% is never spent. Isn't it our advantage if we're the only one with a free list of drugs and the cheapest parallel drugs we've ever told a generic? I believe that list of medicines would be included only in the competition, and it would leave everyone else on the list of medicines that are already on the list. You see, most countries accept generic medicines to reduce consumption, and Croatia has not done so until 2004. Compared to other European countries, Croatian patients pay for health care as much as already said, so according to their incomes. This is one they would say at least, but compared to the salaries paid in Croatia as much as they pay, but in Croatia 96% of the services and 90% of the medicines are paid by state insurance, and the rest makes the insurance pay for the total price. In the European Union, 80% of services and 50% of medicines are paid by state insurance while insurance is paid at a total price of 20%. Unlike the European Union, where only 10% of the population is released from the surcharge, it is about or even above 60% in Croatia. Another World Health Organization report. They say Croatia is for the quality of health care and usability of healthcare funds in 40 places from over 190 countries accompanied by the World Health Organization. This is a relatively favourable position given the means to be allocated to the insurance undertaking. It is clear to all of us here that it is necessary to change the strategy, not just tactics, because Croatian healthcare will be a lasting weight in this state of the Croatian economy. Unfortunately, though, there has been a change of tactics today because unlike this morning’s assembly, there is now a small number that discusses and wants to make a contribution contentiously, constructively, and tolerantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61603	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. The state of health of a nation actually affects the overall and social and economic development of a country, however, this is true and vice versa. As much as the economic power allows for the isolation of health care we will have quality health care and the fact that this interaction is very important. However, when we talk about health reform, more elements should be taken into account, therefore, that financial side as well as how much for isolated finances are acquired in quality. And if we look at the needs of change in the health system in Croatia in this way, we will have more and more results, as well as the satisfaction of the citizens. And the way we're discussing here today, so not in the first reading, but in the previous one, we're having a previous debate about 7 laws and strategy, actually giving us the opportunity to talk about everything and everything. It would have been good if we had discussed the Strategy first, behind that if we had agreed to it and brought it forward that we were going with certain legislative proposals. When I asked here a few months ago what the government was planning to do in reforming the health system, then I received answers that were satisfactory, written response. The minister says the strategy is being drawn up, that the strategic goals of reforming the health system, reforming the health funding system and reforming the public health system are. Thus, it involves the adoption of a National Strategy, ultimately saying that this includes making new legislative proposals. It is called here to say that the current system of health care, poor cost control in health care, etc. led to the overall cost of healthcare to the top limit that the Croatian economy could bear in the state budget so that a comprehensive and deep reform of health financing is needed. I fully agree with that. Furthermore, the minister answers that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union requires the reorganisation of the public health system in order to become the main holder of preventive activities and says it is necessary to adopt, but now says appropriate legal changes in the area of financing of the health system. Now that I think it's not enough and it's right enough to do what's at the beginning of what's said, so the reform of the system of financing, but also the reform of the health system and the reform of the public health system, it seems to me that it's not done enough here, and not a single debate on health care can go through that we don't get in the way of who left the debts and what condition we found when the government changed. Here we have now heard of not knowing how many billions, up to nearly 10 billion kuna, then we can answer what it was in 2000, etc. So, we are in the course of the war, to reduce the cost of health, and that war sanity and health at the time of the war would work to make some decisions that have long-term consequences. So, '93. The decision was made not to show depreciation. We know what that means. When depreciation was not accounted for, we fictitiously reduced the costs of hospitals and health care systems, but in the long run we determined that we did not have the means to restore equipment, etc. So I'm going to say here on one example. The first CT device in Croatia was purchased in 1978. In 2001, the first CT device came to the general hospital in Čakovec, so 24 years later, and it is certain that such a policy that was partly conditioned and war-related led to the uncoordinated development of certain parts of the system, particularly and territorially. And now I'd just like to say a few examples in this whole set of laws that we're actually leading this whole reform to treat the consequences, not the cause. So, big, high health costs, high health losses, let's add to that the problem of the pension system, which is actually generated by the biggest deficit of the state budget. We have signed an agreement with the International Monetary Fund that limits the functioning of the deficit to 3% and now we are facing this problem that we need to deal with this in a way that increases revenues specifically here by speaking in health care. How do we increase them? We increase them so that citizens who use health care have to pay more than they've paid so far, and that's the fact you see. Let us now consider the example of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. That we also have wandering ways to solve or how to increase incomes in health care I will say just as an example of two articles of this law. A little over half a year ago, we changed the existing Health Insurance Act where we introduced an administrative fee and abolished the refund of transport costs over 40 kilometers. So we're only admitting the cost of more than 100 kilometers. That was the way to put 300 million kuna in the budget and a little relief in health problems. What are we doing now? After not wanting to hear that even more serious discussion is being held, we now propose the following in article 28. That the administrative fee will be at least 5 kuna, therefore, when visiting a doctor but it will not exceed 30 kuna per month. And now, how this will apply to me is what I'm interested in. It says at least 5 kuna. Who's going to decide that? The law does not say who will decide whether it will be 5 kuna, or it will be 6 kuna, or it will be 10 kunas as it says now in the existing law. As for the costs of transport here, instead of 100 kilometers, instead of 30 kilometers, it is now about 40 kilometers [40 km] and that for children until age, these costs will not be charged. That's good, but I have to express my regret precisely because of those parents who have so persistently pointed out this problem that the law that we and our colleagues from other clubs have proposed did not go into the procedure, but also the previous debate is being held on them. So I'd like to ask you ministers because you're quite involved in this problem, you've done a few interviews, which is what you do to your co-workers, then you as a government are the initiator to solve this problem because every month these people are concerned because they have to take a pretty high share of the funds out of the budget, out of their home budget. And I think we should start thinking today if we are already going into reform and we want to take a more serious bite into that sour apple to see how it is possible to increase revenues but not to increase contributions to health. For now, we have a system where contributions are paid only by employees and health care is used by all citizens by this at least basic health care. Of course, given the small number of employees it is insufficient, that this must be covered by one good deed and out of the budget why not to think about certain introductions of new tax obligations in that part... which today is almost negligible, therefore, to unused property, otherwise on the property of citizens and so on, we are, instead of taxing the proceeds of the assets, so we freed the dividend from paying taxes on this income. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61605	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61606	As I mentioned earlier, I think it's important to repeat. Health is not a commodity, it is safe and therefore cannot apply the principles of the market when we talk about health. Otherwise, it seems to me that two problems are very important. The first problem is that no social consensus has been reached which is a prerequisite for any health reform. It is said by the trade unions, and they speak of how an October 2005 agreement on the establishment of a health reform working group would be broken, including one employer representative and one union representative, which did not happen. It seems to me that without that basis or what we call social consensus, health reform can be difficult to achieve. After all, we started here today a session with a story about how there should be a consensus between us that is not here in society. Another problem is whether health services are becoming more expensive and especially for the most vulnerable part of the population, about 20% of the population of our country is considered to be poor. Whether they will be threatened or not, 314 thousand unemployed, the average pension for 2005 is a thousand 244 kuna and indeed people are in impossible situations. I'm just gonna end up with an article coming up in "Free Dalmatia" the other day. The title was "Tumor ate his pension." From a town near Split, a town where a man must come for health services and a Split hospital, because of the costs that he simply appears as a pensioner with a small pension can't handle it. It seems to me that this is a basic ethical and moral question that if we don't solve it will turn out that we really have subjected health to the laws of the market and I'm telling you it's not possible, it's a moral category.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61607	Thank you. And I'm asking that the replica institute not be abused because you didn't really respond to the quote from the previous presentation. The esteemed representative Zgrebec said nothing about a social agreement or consensus. And I'm asking you not to abuse the replica board. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61608	Well, colleague Jurovic, every citizen is an interesting debate about the health system because sooner or later we are all users of these services. And the fact is that they are increasingly emerging on the market and becoming a market category, not as we have in our laws, provided that this is a system of solidarity. I can accept that one part of that can be a market category. Are we going to be placed in a room with another patient or are we going to be placed in an apartment? Of course, if you want to be placed in an apartment, you have to pay more. And that's the third part of the health insurance that we'll be providing each one according to our economic strength. But I think that state and society must provide basic protection, health care at the same level for all of their citizens, for all of their citizens, but then it must be adequately financed from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61609	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I find it difficult to reach a consensus on the adoption of this set of laws and national and this programme, that is, because we are one we advocate a clean market, the other we are increasingly for the social category at least for the basic and basic health services. A round table was held on this topic and on the topic of these health laws in Varazdin a week ago. What are the findings of that round table? That the state of health is generally bad. Not the technological level of our health because we have top results in certain activities both in the top hospitals in Zagreb and in those outside the capital. However, the fact that funding is insufficient. That's why I'd like to hear from Mr. Minister who are the reasons the government doesn't pay enough of what was found for the unemployed and the farmers? Let's just remember that last year, according to the data available to us from $1.9 billion that was to be paid to the unemployed and farmers, and they were unemployed, according to the latest statistics of 311,000 311, only 450 million kuna were paid. Let's think of July last year and the rebalancing of the 226 million kunas that were supposed to be in the budget for health care being returned to the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance. And then we wonder that health care doesn't have enough money. What are the reasons for that? I can only say because this government favors the rich, and for the poor, there is simply not enough hearing. A health prevention programme in the Republic of Croatia has also not been implemented at this time. For work-related diseases, there is no part of our company's work protection board. I can ask you colleagues, both myself and the minister why the competent inspections don't carry out the law and why don't we resort to a pillar of shame from those employers who don't perform their legal duties? Let's remember that in the '90s, protection at work has suddenly become a necessary evil. Let us remember that at that time, very little was available for protection at work. Let us remember the non-compliance of the law and remember the new tycoons who simply felt that they did not have to buy all the resources related to protection at work. Remember how many years ago if we can even hear and what companies are on, other than those most mandatory reviews, how many of their workers have referred to to regularly control their health care and how much money have they paid for it? A preventative thing we must admit to all together is simply insufficient. One strategy and one law that we pass and we don't enforce and punish those who implement it simply won't benefit us from it. I'd like to say something about categorizing hospitals now. We have now, more or less every county has at least one general hospital. We do, and we have to admit to ourselves I'd call it political hospitals for which perhaps right now and there's no condition for them to do business, but they do. These are political interests, however, are pressures, but it is simply money from the budget for the entire health care sector. It would not be popular now if I were to talk about these hospitals but in my area of northwestern Croatia within 40 kilometers we have three general hospitals. In each of these hospitals, both surgeons and neurosurgeons and anaesthetics and occultists and everyone else attend each night. And we pay for all that. I ask if it may not be simpler for what is most necessary to be on duty, but whether all doctors have to be on duty all night or for one purpose in rationalising health care to have some of them ready at home and paid 10.15% on salary will still be significantly cheaper than they are at this hour. I'd like to hear from Mr. Minister as he looks at the limits? I very responsibly claim that there is no magog in general hospitals that at the time the limit rises, for example 2%, and the government closes with a collective union contract and increases the salaries of doctors and health care staff against which I have nothing 5%, which must be the manager who will succeed in the operation of this hospital rationally? There's no such thing. Especially since in these hospitals and communal fees and communals, everything else is growing. Unfortunately, restrictions do not follow the rise in these prices. And by the way, I would like to hear from you, Mr. Minister, because it is the sin of all of us who are the reasons, for example, that for one patient in the Varazdin County, for example, there are 583 kunas per bed for decentralised functions in health care according to the agreed beds in hospitals for larger ones, for the Varazdin County, and for example here is for Dubrovnik-Neretva County 2 thousand 179 kuna. It's in 2003. What are those arguments? The argument may be that there are three special hospitals in Varazdin County. However, I warn you in special hospitals in the Varazdin County area of Varazdinske spas, Klenovnik and Novi Marof, only 30% of patients are from Varazdin County. It turns out that the rich, under the quotes of the Varazdin County, in which the average salary is 35% lower than in other parts of Croatia must be recovered by the proposed and this Law. I would also ask you Mr. Minister why the amount of funds for decentralised functions per insurance company in certain counties is? For example, for the Varazdin County 97 kuna 60 limes, and for example the Evoga for Krapina-Zagorska 117 kuna or for example for Dubrovnik-Neretva County 113 kuna? Would it be good to say what the criteria are? We don't mind someone getting more. But we need to give clear criteria that unfortunately are not there right now. If we're talking about it all, it seems to me that they're a special problem for special hospitals. I'm stressing again. So the county's got founding rights, management rights, but I'm asking if HZZO and decentralised funds and even restrictions don't follow real needs and real state how do you think regional self-government means county will be able to tackle losses? I guarantee you that the Varazdin County and all others can go bankrupt at the same time. And that's why there's always a debt-debted kalem, and there's nothing to solve. By the way, Mr. Minister Varazdin County is one of the first to be made under the letter of the 4th Home Health Act. We think it's okay for the rationalization of health care business. At this time, however, you in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act in Article 25 say: "There may be more homes of health in the area of a county.". I'm asking you what might happen right now to the current county administration. He's not gonna let health care get unrealized. But let's find another power tomorrow, third power, fourth power, and SDPs not to say now that we're just giving what the HDZ or some other power is going to do, which is going to... and make another home of health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see any reason to set up new homes of health, actually, or moan and increase costs. If the county's letter of law made a rationalization of three, four, five health homes one, I don't see any reason to give and the possibility to make it go back to crumbling. Especially since a good part of these homes of health unfortunately no longer has some major functions except for some organizational ones. By the way, what doctors in primary health practice are interested in is, they say... That they can make contracts with a thousand 700 insurance companies and get a head start. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The doctor’s view is that a thousand 700 patients cannot live. They're all forced to go to have more insurance. I ask you how this will be done then prevention and how much quality work the primary healthcare doctor has at all. We have or increase these principals and give them a range of jobs to do, meaning specific jobs. The question is and there's a matter of us as patients as far as we know we have the right to preventative examinations and so on. It seems very little to me, and it needs to be done specifically to give the public good information on these matters. Because preventive examinations, for example, I'm going to tell you the problem of a doctor in Varazdin, he has the right to call for preventive checks only over 50 years of age who have not been checked for 3 years. What do you do, and he has cases like that that people won't come? It's his fault. His HZO can cancel the contract. And we have a lot of categories of citizens from men of prostate and anything else that should be regularly controlled once a year. How many of us as patients know that we have the right to do so and how much of this kind of prevention will reduce costs later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61611	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61612	Comrade Korenik, here you are now mentioning your county and mentioning the unification of your 4 home health in one. And from your exposure to conclude that this merger actually achieved the goal that was originally achieved when it went into that procedure, which is precisely the rationalization of the operations of the health homes. However, from what I was saying when I was in my discussion about problems in the Split-Dalmatia County, when I said that it was really with this merger that led to a very bad organisation of the health system and that end-users, and these are exposures of the health homes, gradually more and more collapse. Their quality of service is also collapsing. So, and then I said, when I replicated my fellow Peronji that it was actually a bad idea, that it was an example of how one bad idea was spent on one, how one good idea actually went wrong and led to problems like this in my county. Okay, indeed, the Split-Dalmatia County is specific from others. However, now this law is as proposed as you have said it is actually proposed that in each county there will be at least one home of health. But the proposed law does not show by which criteria will be set in which county there will be as many health homes, whether it will be someone's will again, as it was done in Split-Dalmatia County when it literally went through the night in a procedure like this and was done badly. Or it'll be done on some criteria. And I am afraid that this proposed law will actually lead to new problems in the system of functioning of homes of health, i.e. primary health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61613	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61614	Well, I can agree with you esteemed colleagues because I think they miss them here as often as they do with us. No county in Croatia is entirely identical to another county. Countys, especially these Dalmatians that have islands and everything else should still be viewed in a different way, especially summers in the tourist season when thousands of guests and tourists are and when indeed the homes of health by my conviction on the islands can function at home of health. But not with all that administration that the home of health would most often have. From the principal, the ficus, the secretary and everything else. It means health care homes. Obviously, the laws of any kind, good or bad, were not respected until the end. But the fact that the law exists is also respected. The fact that in Varazdin County there is a fair law and something was done, there was, I must say, resistance in the first stage. Later, however, this proved to be relatively correct. But I stress, and here I agree with you, let's not now let where rationalization is made, and the proposal of this law without criteria gives us the opportunity to do it again, let's not go to it. Let's get clear and precise criteria. Suppose that's what he's trying to work out under the law. However, as sublegal regulations are passed by the Government, and not by this High House, we often get regulations that are relatively bad, perhaps even impertinent and that do not go after the quality of health and for the benefit of all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61615	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61616	Well, well-respected Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Why are our citizens afraid of this health reform? They're scared like angry goons. For what? Why? Because this reform, which has been announced by this strategy and many laws, is not known as soon as possible, but it is now less important, to this previous debate. Because exactly a year and a half ago before the public knowledge, it was only later learned by the public, at the 8th month when citizens were mostly resting, someone more, someone less, signed a stand by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. This national enemy, as this government, then the opposition, called it, to be more precise. And that agreement clearly monitors where our health reform is going. Where the IMF complains that we have a lot of situations where citizens, i.e. insurance companies have situations that do not pay for any participation and that this needs to be changed to a significant extent. It literally stands in that contract, in a deal signed by the government a year and a half ago. And that's why people are afraid of reform. The overall concept of reform should cause some improvements. It's true. And breaking up with some kind of fashionable behavior and irresponsible behavior, and easy for that, I think that every responsible citizen, and that's the huge majority, wants exactly the kind of reform that will then provide him with greater rights, but today everything and everything is called reform, and also a deterioration of the situation, and protureform procedures are called reforming procedures. Reform cannot and is not something that is a reduction of rights. Therefore, the citizens, and unions with indignation, and with discomfort, and with coldness and doubt, accept it. I will immediately say that it is not acceptable to continue to propose an administrative fee as a model for financing the health system because the system is unfair. The system should be built on the principle of transfer on healthy, sick and wealthy according to the socially endangered which the system of administrative fees is in no way. It is not possible to say at all that this national health strategy from 2006 to 2011, since the accession basics do not justify it in any of their chapters. The concept of strategies in the semantic sense answers the question of how, and there is no answer in the document. Furthermore, there is no answer when what measures will be implemented. It would be much better, and here's the time for the government to rely on the strategic goals of the World Health Organization, which has its strategic project "Health for All". It's something that can be a reform procedure and that certainly would have everyone back us here in the Parliament, and on our own citizens, or unions themselves. In this particular project of the World Health Organization "Health for All", it is stressed that health is a key factor in the quality of life of each individual and economic and any other development of society, and therefore investment in health should be a fundamental investment strategy for each individual and every society. That is why we, myself and all of us in the SDP, feel that there is a need to ensure that all available healthcare is provided. That there are values despite the fact that we opted for a market economy, for a market economy, that there are things, or values that are extra comecium, which are out of traffic, which cannot be the subject of trade. It's health, it's justice, it's citizens' will, political mandates. So companies that allow the oxide of money to penetrate here into health, in justice, that health is on sale, that justice is on sale, that the will of citizens who have freely expressed in any election for sale. Such a society has doomed itself. The trade unions are now warning themselves that health and pension reform cannot be taken into account on this market basis, that whoever has the money also has health. I believe that an effective and strong public health system must be based on solidarity and that people and important social beings, beings from the community and altruistic, not just egotistical beings directed by capitalism. Maybe that's what we're different about, and there's a difference between us. We want health care for everyone, not just the rich, and that is exactly how the debate of all interested groups is involved. Here's what's left, but here's my hope and I believe if there's any serious will to fix it. So here I would particularly draw attention to what has been objecting here today, and quite unwarranted. If the government had no idea what the unions were up to, it wasn't ready for this petition, because if it had, then there would have been a lot of built in it. Trade unions warn that the health pension system is the issue of all citizens and that they must be included in this reform. The only concrete move in health reform that has been discussed for months is the fact that citizens will have to pay more expensive additional insurance since June. The additional health insurance that remains within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute as of June will cover only the cost of cheaper products, or generic medicines, and although we have heard here today that the much more expensive medicine is exactly the same as the much cheaper one, simply the children will not be able to accept in ordinary things, let alone medicines. Therefore, trade unions, and we rightly suspect personally, that quality medicines will be available only to the rich if this concept remains. What seems very important to me to point out is that although some norms of legal solutions come from the very explanation that public health staff will be banned from working in private offices. I think that reforming such, or legislative proposals even extends such work. For about 200 healthcare professionals who have so far had such practice within healthcare institutions after working hours, private practice in public institutions is abolished. However, they, as well as their colleagues with a professional exam, can continue to work outside of working hours, and that is something that remains unresolved, that will open a whole series of issues, but the biggest trap says unions, is the indetermination of numerous solutions, or the reference to all these laws to solve 85 sublegal acts. Therefore, in concrete situations and concrete solutions, they remained extremely unknown. I would warn here even though it is a previous debate, to the inadmissibility of eradicating Article 158 of the existing Health Protection Act which defined the possibility of a doctor working extra time, to delete it because you Ministers have announced that the special regulation would probably prohibit this supplemental work, but you forgot to enforce the Law of Labour which is right and they will certainly use labour standards that guarantee them the right to additional private work and will continue to work in private offices. So make sure that if you really don't want to do what you want, or what comes from such a legal proposal, that such doctors are given a simple concession for corruption. It's very dangerous. So HZZO would thus, in private their accounts, pay the money to review the patient, and they would nicely create their list in hospitals. So that's what I've already pointed out, that's something that we've paved the way completely wrong back in '95, which allowed teachers to open private clinics, and that's what led to the collapse of almost just public health. The next important question is why is the new Proposal for the Health Protection Act of the Croatian Institute for Mandatory Health Insurance called the Croatian Institute even though the minister says there will be room for additional policies? Thus, a whole series of questions, later on about which individual legal solutions do not offer to the end. It would be good to think about all of this, if this reform didn't come anymore, I hope it won't be like this either, or it won't be brought, or it won't be carried out, because that would mean that the operation worked, and the patient died.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61617	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct a colleague who, among other things, has made it clear how this wicked capitalism, etc. It corrupts people, and we encourage such behavior and introduce private practice, etc. and I would quote paraphrase 23 or an article that reads: "The parish physics is free to engage in private practice, but this one must not be at the expense of official reputation nor at the expense of the service provided by the Law of 20 January 1894 governing health services in Croatia and Slavonia." Therefore, it is a tradition in Croatia in part and private service, only to be in service of a man as well as here predicts a new... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61619	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Health Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I have to admit here in this debate I've heard very, very much now a lot of concrete proposals again when we throw this out of politicized so here I'm going to give a few concrete answers. There was a very good-looking proposal, which is based in some way on the possibility that the Law on local, or regional self-government that actually the founding rights of the health homes are being transferred to cities and I must admit that we've been thinking about it a lot, which is now a possibility, but no one really implemented it as such. Not a single county has now transferred its founding rights to the cities. Why? I think it actually requires a broader debate, there are some advantages, there are also shortcomings, but it remains an absolutely open question in which it would be worth talking about. What I would like to say, however, and look back, perhaps we should conclude so for today. 96% of all practical services, health services in the Republic of Croatia are currently carried by the community, so states. 4% carry an individual out of his pocket in the form of payment, so participation and it won't change, so it'll remain the same as it was. Also right now, 2 million and 600,000 of our citizens on different grounds are freed from payment, participation. That's how it's gonna stay. Nothing's gonna happen in that sense. Why? Because there's no room for that. Therefore, on the question of whether it is possible to increase revenues from any base at this time, and to further tax our citizens, the answer is no. Then what's left? And there remains a logical alternative, which means to act on the expenditure side, and there is space as highlighted by so many debaters today and that is exactly the space we want to take advantage of. There were talks about how to finance both the hospital and primary health care, and I couldn't agree more. It was said there was no transparent way to charge for patronage services. I agree. There's no transparent medical care in the house. I agree. Why isn't she here? Well, she's not here because there's no medical records that can serve as an invoice. I'll say that by 2004, it's more specifically June, and then we've continued yet, they haven't seen the invoices until 500 kuna, they just haven't looked at each other. Now that we've started to analyze the invoices literally on one lip, all of a sudden, the execution of all the hospitals has fallen drastically. I agree that the problems with the hospital budget absolutely exist, certainly, are not transparent and therefore we want to introduce this system that we propose in the National Strategy that has all countries in our environment or introduce it and we are not introducing it ourselves but we have asked for great help, we have asked, I personally Austrian ministers, so... Which she also agreed to give us, otherwise that system to just translate would cost a lot of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We got it gratis and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has actually made one big part of the preparation for it and I agree that there actually needs a big shift. Why? To make that system more visible. Well, then it won't be this for us to have a certain amount for a citizen. 'Cause what does that mean if you have one hospital that sends 30% of its causes somewhere else? So are we going to have the same quantum assets per fuse as in another hospital? Well, we won't. What's also clear is what I want to say here, and it was said. So it's a separation of public and private. There is no association of patients, there is no Croatia that has not opposed the work of doctors outside full-time, therefore in its own institution. Neethical, invisible and something else. In that system, imagine a variant when you're waiting for something, so you get a checkup, someone tells you you can't get in today, I can take you in six months, but already in the same place, with the same doctor, so in the same room, you can immediately do it for money, as charged directly. It's inadmissible and I'm going to say this moment clearly that we and the analysis of the situation have seen that individuals have in some way reported a major quantum examination, and that the hospital has received several hundred kunas and it's simply unacceptable to control it is almost impossible. And that's why, and listening to patients' associations, we decided to distinguish what's normal. There is an opportunity to work in the afternoon, but through a legal legitimate system called the insurance house. There must be no direct payment on the doctor’s hand on the healthcare provider via the insurance company. And that system actually exists everywhere. I loved this debate that went into what we proposed, which is strengthening primary health care within the framework of integrated care. I agree, I couldn't agree more, and I strongly support it. That's what I did the other day at the opening of a restored school called Andrija Printar, the school of folk health "Andrija Stampar" clearly said. Integrated healthcare in the health care sector will absolutely be our priority. But not only that, she'll be practically tied to hospitals. So the goal is in places where there's a discrepancy, where there's no adequate availability to do what's called some kind of community hospital, so some kind of little specialist that's going to somehow mimic the hospital system. And that's what I think actually these individual areas that are not adequately covered will adequately cover. I would repeat, I ask you, that therefore we do not interfere with the national strategy, we do not mix the national strategy with the action plan. These are three completely different things that need to be maximum distanced because the national strategy is a national strategy, reform is something that started in the 1990s and action plan is something that will only actually come before you. As far as supplemental health insurance is concerned, I made it clear. There's no need for additional health insurance right now to cover the medication, there's no need because the drugs will be free. And additional insurance remains within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Why? In order to allow vulnerabilities to remain at a very low price, they have access to both hospital treatment and specialists and orthopaedic aids and, on the other hand, to control that supplementary insurance that will go to the market so that they do not actually increase those shelves enormously. And a few words about protecting health at work. Look, right now the health care system at work has been incorporated into mandatory health insurance. It doesn't exist anywhere like that, anywhere, and we've made a detailed video of each of you who's interested we can give it to. There were no records, no practical system controls could be done because basic compulsory health insurance is controlled. And of course there weren't any preventive checks either. And when I began to announce that, I want the medicine to go back to where it belongs, among the workers, and not in elitism, it began to condemn it. Now with a proposal like this, it actually looks absolutely acceptable and normal. Why? Because we want a joint one institution united that will be established on the principle of solidarity, on the principle of reciprocity or that will actually have one portfolio from which both prevention and all segments will be financed. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61621	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61622	This is an incorrect allegation that Mr. Minister claimed that he had received a gratis programme of health reform, or a whole health system from his fellow Austrian health minister. You may think it's free, Mr. Minister, but no one gives anything for free, especially from the white world. They obviously know what they're looking for. They're looking for land, a return of land they don't have the right to, so they want to get land on paper. And we should always be in charge. Maybe here is a well-intentioned, not a tip but a reminder that there is nothing, so that nothing is free and that we always manage the old Croatian proverb that free cheese is available only in the mousefish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61623	The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister! So it really takes ten minutes to discuss the health development strategy in the Republic of Croatia and seven health laws must be lumen from the field of health so that you can say something smart about this in principle. But since we've already got it on the table and we have to do our part as citizens' representatives in the Croatian Parliament, it's also about saying what we think about it. This government proposal reminded me of an anecdote from Dalmatia, about thirty years ago, my son headed to Europe to work and earn money. And after twenty and a few years he returns to Dalmatinska Zagora to his father with a great car, a great suit, shaved, somewhat older and very drunk. And the first question of his father's son after twenty-five years, he says, "Son, is there a school?". He says to his father's son, "He's got popes, he's got popes."and his father said to him, "Let health matter.". Therefore, all stories of money cannot replace the importance for the health of peoples and nations, so all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, it should be noted immediately. The proposal we received on the benches and strategies and the bill doesn't determine one fundamental thing by me. When a system is introduced that, with public money and public health, we have additional insurance, therefore private insurance is additional through the Health Protection Office and in particular private insurance is a question of who lives here in symbiotic and that is the debtor. Mr. Minister, now in a discrepancy with the material, says the drugs will be free, and the material says that they will, and imagine what is called the second list of medicines with a higher price level. The material says that the list of medicines will be paid for by additional insurance. And that means again from private money. And even when we add to that the claim here by the medical and medical experts that the equivalent, health equivalent and first and second lists is complete then it is really strange not to wonder why two lists are introduced and who they are introduced for. When I say this, experts are absurdly required in the Croatian Parliament to conduct the debate professionally. Well, she's really running professionally. It's not about medicine. It's about health care. It's about how health care is financed. And that's our job. So here is the word to which level we will ensure the right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, workers to be treated at the expense of solidarity and mutuality, i.e. public money. It's a debate in this House. And not how will they operate, and how will treatment be organised? That fortunately, which fortunately the government has indeed come with a professional and reasoned proposal to do so and to come with the consent of the social partners or anyone involved in the creation of health care, then we could say that we are looking for a consensus in Parliament. This is how you look for consensus when there's a fundamental division between us who's going to pay for public health? Is the disease proposed to continue so those who are sick must pay a sick tax or administrative tax and there is no solidarity there. In other words, the government's proposal favours rich people in this kind of health reform. And that's where we differ because that's where we have to appreciate that there's a difference between us. The government's second proposal is to form two types of medicines the minister was now talking about. One list of medicines is practically for those who co-finance health care from the disease tax. And they'll get these drugs, now you call them what you want for free and the same quality and the same equivalent. That's what you can say, but nobody believes you. Because it doesn't make sense that the second list is more expensive and that it has to be paid either for insurance or for private or for this to be additional and that the equivalent in health is the same. That doesn't make sense. Therefore, it should be fair to separate the public health care, which is public and which all citizens receive on the basis of compulsory insurance and to separate the health care financed from the additional insurance and private insurance. If we add that it is a national interest, and that was Croatia and you are all showing the development of top medicine, there is still money to be drawn from all of this to finance the development of top medicine. It's a national interest both economically and socially and any one. There's not a word about it in this strategy. Let's go back to the material. What does the government suggest? Change the way funding is made up of what? I already said to keep the taxes on the sick and that they pay for their treatment. To ensure the rich can be treated with us but through private security. If we add that in Croatia, rich people have become, in fact, abuse of the state through privatisation through conversion, then it is clear to whom does this proposal go? Well, in Croatia, 90% of the rich became through privatisation and conversion. It's a reorganization. What about reorganizing Mr. Minsitre? Health care rights, health care facilities or medical teams? There's no clear reorganisation. Rationalization. What rationalization? Rationalization is two lists of medicines. Because the laymen know they're generic, is that what they're called? Medicines 10 and 15 times cheaper than original medicines. And that, or at least the pharmacology experts, the doctors in the private conversation will tell me at least 10%. That they're 10 to 15 times cheaper and they even say, "We can get them out of China whenever we want and how much we want." I say it in public because I heard it in private conversations like that. If we don't talk like that, the people aren't crazy. He'll find out what one drug means, what other drugs mean? And I don't want to be a part of the scam. I don't want any part of the scam. That's why I'm talking like this. I'll come back to build a public health system for the private health care system. These two systems in a country which is called corrupt both within the state and outside the state cannot be controlled if it is not health care. Simply who says that a private security person will not simply benefit from the public system, will not use the public system without engaging his private health insurance. There's no guarantee of that. Maybe we should go back to the material. Participation of 15 to 50% is foreseen in certain treatment or medical services items. I don't know a lot of systems or hospitals or a lot of health care but I certainly know that in hospitals there are different levels envisaged to do differentiation how much participation will be? It's not the same thing, doctors all know to treat themselves in a state-of-the-art facility, it's probably a Rebro and somewhere in a hospital outside the center that's not even equipped with medical aids or personnel. Is it the same participation in the treatment? There is no word on what top medicine means, and how is this done to protect patients in the Republic of Croatia? All in all, this reform is not a vision of Croatia's health for one year Let alone 10 years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I hope that the development will also make it possible for Croatian health care to have a better, better discussion... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61625	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by an esteemed representative, is the correction of an incorrect quote or replica, I don't know? What are you? It's a replica or a correction. ... Correction of an incorrect allegation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61626	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. A respected fellow MP has repeatedly criticised that free generic list with ugly names among other things: "The people are not crazy that they will not see what you are trying to trick them into. It doesn't make sense that the supplemental medicine is more expensive and equally valuable." So I'd just quote the greatest authority on the globe in the field of generic drugs. It's the director of the Bureau of Generic Medicinal Products at the FDE. It's a food and dear administration in America who literally said this: "Many people believe that if something has a higher price that is even better quality. In the case of generic drugs, this belief is not true. The quality standards for the original drug and generic medicine are the same." It is therefore also included in the therapeutic sense, but not in terms of price. And for that reason, a dear colleague, a generic list, has accepted all the way to one European Union country. So we're not gonna be behind them, are we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61627	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61628	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'd first agree with my predecessor who said that eight legal proposals in 10 minutes do not only impossible, but I'd say it's extremely unserious to try to do something like that. That's why I can only say a few sentences in principle about these laws, especially about the strategy, but I would allow myself to begin my debate to underline one word with an anecdote. With an anecdote 16 years ago, it happened in London at a reception by Mrs. Thatcher when one of the lords who was at that reception ate a little more wine and began courting Mrs. Thatcher at the reception. Mrs. Thatcher as a woman who was not very tolerated, had no hair on her tongue, she suffered 5, 10, 15 minutes, and then in the middle of the hall she turned to Mr. Lord and said to him, "Lord, your choice is excellent, but your timing is terrible.". This word: "timeding." Namely, what, yes, because it is said so, and I do not know how to translate that word, but obviously in the function of time his choice was not good quality. I mean, what isn't a co-worker and co-worker's answer here in time? We here have before us a proposal for a national health development strategy. That's the proposal we get when? We're getting it a year and a few months before our term of office expires. We're starting with a clear preliminary discussion. By the time this debate passes, first reading, second reading, and the adoption of that strategy will come right before the elections. And I'm asking you now how will the citizens evaluate what we're doing today? Will they really be able to understand that we here are seriously engaged in one strategy or do we have another goal? I don't think anyone smart can say that we actually intend to implement this strategy in this term. It's impossible for colleagues and colleagues. So that's why the word "timed," so the word I used here, I think it's appropriate to start this debate. What I had just heard from the minister that this strategy now proposed by the government should be distinguished from the reform that began in the 1990s, and now we see it started without a strategy. And the strategy is a framework within which we change content. The action plan is a way to implement this content. So, we started reform without a framework. It's something I can't accept. Furthermore, I agree with those predecessors in the debate who said they disagreed with the name of this point. So, the Health Development Strategy. Word: "development." If it was a reform, I'd agree. We can reform, streamline, even some rights and take away and competences to institutions, citizens, insurance companies, but talk about development and reduce the number of drugs from 800 to 500, that we have a clear deficit in health, here we are fighting these days to restore rights to insurance, to paid travel expenses, etc., and so on, not to repeat what has already been said. I can't call it development. The development is when it's really going for the better. When you improve the characteristics of something, when you increase the characteristics of something, when something gets better. I don't see that element of development here. Furthermore, we heard during the debate today that this strategy by some is not in line with the unions, according to others, it is consistent with the unions. Why do you always have two weights? Why are there always two truths? Why do you always have two faces? It confuses me, let alone our citizens who listen to us and who want a clear policy in the field of health so they know what's waiting for them tomorrow. Then, we heard during the debate, I listened carefully to your colleagues and colleagues that the profession was consulted, or the chamber, but that their reasons were not respected, their suggestions. So it's about a non-compliant, highly non-compliant strategy, or a professional non-compliant strategy. Again confusing, vague, why and how. Fifth, or fifth, my complaint, regional self-government here, colleagues and colleagues is an extremely significant factor. In recent years, we have transferred the founding rights and ownership rights of a vast number of health institutions to our county. The strategy cannot, must not even think about going without sitting with the mayors, not sitting with the executive authorities in the county and not agreeing with strategic elements together. Otherwise, if we don't network by vertical and our county, I don't think we can and can't use the term "strategic." We heard today that over 300 thousand signatures were collected from our citizens. We keep our mouths full of civil society. Here, however, we clearly don't look at them, we don't talk about them, about their proposals, their reasons, their arguments. I think that's another reason to worry. My seventh personal remark is something that happens constantly to colleagues and colleagues from office to mandate. I personally think that when a minister sits in a chair, this is not just about the current minister, this applies to all previous ministers, the minister promises the hills and valleys during the campaign. He's got all the answers. And why does it usually just start with reforms, with strategies, with radical changes at the end of the mandate? The minister said this morning that he had nothing, he didn't have a database with adequate elements that would allow him to go into this strategy sooner. I can agree if so, they can trust me, but then it would be nice to tell us that it was Marko Markovic, Janko Jankovic, and that he fired them three months ago because he saw that they were the brakes of health development in this country. There's never any guilt, we know what it is and why the obstruction of the system, but we don't know who's responsible for that obstruction. Never a name, never a last name, and I can't accept it. Finally, my colleagues and colleagues will end up with this story, only four years earlier or three years earlier, and it will soon be four. At its meeting on 17 July 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted several health laws governing the system, which led to a systematic reform of health care and health activities and the status of the holder of certain activities in the system. Seven laws were adopted at the time, the Law on Health Care, the Law on Medicine, the Law on dental activity, the Law on Medical Biochemical Activity, the Law on Suppression, the Law on Pharmacy, the Law on Medicinal Products. These laws set out that within six months, rules will be adopted to implement these seven laws and set out in a series of systematic solutions. Never had a rulebook seen the light of day, so if we wanted to, we could go systemically, as announced by a series of questions. No, the laws came into the drawer, the rules weren't made, so that after three years, we could start where, from the very beginning. That's what colleagues and colleagues are going to do, and I have a feeling, and it's going to happen with this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61629	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61630	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In line with this decision, it is a previous debate, and using the minister's presence in my best interest to try to influence the text until the first reading of the strategy. By carefully reading Mr. Minister, I would rather give her the name of a concubine or a need, because in this strategy I have found twenty times the following formulas: it will need to be designed, it should be considered, it should be considered, it should be limited, it will have to be considered, it will be inevitable to define the status, to force the creation of group practices, to achieve close cooperation, even to think. They're quotes from the strategy itself. If the strategy or if its goal is to design a health system by 2011 it says that we can even think about it at the moment we bring it in, then it's not necessary, then we'll do it later, let's say. I think that these formulations in the strategy should be avoided, or we are something, we're going to do something, or we're not going to predict it. As far as legal proposals are concerned, the first dilemma about generic drugs. I'm not an expert. I'm listening to a fellow Hebrang who reads all the American authors about it, but something I don't understand then. If these are exactly the same medicines, and they are original expensive because it takes a long time to examine, prove, control, registration, authorisation, why in the case of the registration of generic drugs their examination and testing is performed only on male subjects between 20 and 40 years of age. Let's say not on pregnant women, not women. The Slovenian government hired two... agencies to convince Slovenians that generic drugs are the same as the original. If they're the same, they don't need new licenses, new registrations, everything's the same. Obviously something still exists not only at the price. The second thing I suggest is that you try to follow and read this health package with social laws, you may avoid some unnecessary costs in the health care system, such as the parents of children who are suffering from the cellia of Dawn's syndrome and cerebral palsy, these three I found. Every year in the social service, he had to bring in new medical records to prove that their children were suffering from Dawn’s syndrome, as if it were a diagnosis that was curable or cerebral paralysis. Well, a man without a leg is the same, and he has to prove that in this calendar year, his leg didn't grow. We motivate children, parents and doctors especially of the specialist clinic to get to the paper that this child born with Dawn's syndrome still has Dawn's syndrome and that paper is extremely important for a number of other social rights. Second, about those famous 30 kunas. Afterwards, you passed a regulation that according to the administrative procedure of social care centres certain categories return these 30 kuna. The administrative procedure for returning 30 kuna and postage is greater than 30 kuna if returned. Find another solution, because you've transferred some of your health expenses to social services, and by creating 20% more costs. Now it's time for you to get those social and health regulations in line. Furthermore, Article 5 of point 17 of all possible war people is spoken of. I remind you that there are still live participants in the First World War in Croatia and check their health status according to your proposed solutions. People serving military time in the Armed Forces, handcuffs, which is with those who serve the civilian military time. They're not in the Armed Forces? Formulations for both precision and they must have the right to health insurance. They are not part of the Armed Forces, they serve military time, but not within the scope, that is, Article 5, point 18, in Article 5. Article 14 is talked about health care measures carried out by the insurance undertaking, which you bring. Article 14 speaks of the obligation of the insurance undertaking to pay those basic rights on the burden of basic health insurance, again you make the decision. In Article 19 of the Standards, Methods and Mechanisms for the Implementation of Insurance Rights also brings the Administrative Council of the Institute with your consent, with the consent of the Minister of Health. If we really want to decentralise the insurance company and if you send representatives of regional self-government to the assembly, which is good, and I accept that as a model. First, resolve the way you propose candidate candidates for the administrative board of various structures in the law of public appeal, solve it, solve it, ministers. And secondly, is there an important document for insurance undertakings than this document referred to in Article 19? Is there anything more important for health card holders than the Regulation referred to in Article 19? It's not. It is designed for the fate of the right, the way, the achievement and the conditions of attainment from compulsory health insurance. Office statutes, big deal. A financial plan, a matter of budget. This Article, these rights referred to in Article 19 of my judgment, shall not be in the jurisdiction of the Governing Council. That's why there's a congregation. Why the congregation? To pick the principals and bring the statutes. He meets every 16 years. If indeed insurance and regional self-government as a system of decentralisation that you advocate and that is good, then in Article 19, you cannot give this jurisdiction to the Governing Council but to the Assembly. Article 22 discusses the exemption from payment of compensation and says that persons whose income per head is less than 45.59% of the budget base, 45.59. It's on those 3,000 326 kuna budget bases you probably thought, so a thousand 809 kuna. Let's round it up to 46%. All the percentages in the law are in two decimal places. I know what you were doing, recalculating the mass of resources, and getting percentages. Article 28 of the release from those 5 kunas. Voluntary blood donors. Is it worth it to free 5 kuna participations? I think so. Would it be good to free the donors of tissue, organs and cells? I think so. And for the third time I have appealed to you, to your official ministry data, and my colleague Hebrang has often repeated it, about 2 billion kunas of unsolicited drugs, unnecessarily prescribed you write in the Strategy. Excess medications in household drawers. The duration of some medications is a year, two days. The Swiss have a model that insurance companies return drugs, return them, the Austrians have, the Swedish have. What do you think, would our poor insurance companies and patients who have excess medications at home, whose deadline has not expired for this 5 kuna participation as a stamp put these drugs back into the system? I would. So if we didn't save 2 billion, only 500 million on an annual basis, only 5, so a quarter of it. Travel expenses and travel expenses are lifted for 300 million, here, 500 million, let's take half a billion. You'll also do an educational function that drugs are not free of charge, no matter what, even those generic insurance guys pay that drugs when they're finished in the trash are poison. Neither in the Strategy, nor in any law have you thought about it. I'm offering mechanisms you've also probably heard from an outside counselor. Take the chance of this legislation to introduce that model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61631	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61632	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61633	Don't let anyone by any chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61634	I can do it for the pay phone, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61635	No, no, I'm just protecting, so you don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61636	So here after the fierce announcements of health reform we have before us are amendments to the 3 laws that are superficially perceived as cosmetic changes. However, these cosmetic changes have far-reaching negative consequences for the social status of sick citizens, and in the general state of the public, because the costs of health care are being transferred to patients at an increasing amount, i.e. more and more opening up the room for profit not on the health of citizens but on their diseases, and the Republic of Croatia remains less and less social. It seems indisputable that health reform is necessary, it is complete if it involves reforming the health system, reforming the health financing system and reforming the public health system. Under the password that there is no free treatment anywhere in the world last year, administrative fees were imposed as an additional imposition on patients, the right to compensation for travel expenses up to 100km, right to funeral expenses. The minister then told us that this right would be regulated by the Social Care Act by the end of the last year. There's no law to this day, and there's no right. It is incorrect that in the Republic of Croatia the treatment is free. The gross salary of employees is collected annually from 14 and a half billion kunas, including contributions paid by employers, i.e. the economy. The health care industry spends 16 billion kunas a year. The question is, how do you manage these funds? The obligation is for the government to establish a system that will use these funds rationally to give citizens as much as they are taken. Instead of rational management, it resorts to patient loads. When the Minister of Health defended the bill that introduces administrative fees, abolishing travel costs and burying costs, he said the administrative fee practically means in some way consolidation, stabilising the system until we cross what is undoubtedly waiting for us, which is inevitable, it is the reorganisation and restructuring of the health system, but there is no reform yet. Why? We don't know. What awaits the sick after the entry into force of these laws? They're waiting for basic and supplemental drug lists. By changing patients, the burden of cost of all medicinal products not included in the baseline list as well as the surcharge in the difference in the price of the medicinal product from the baseline list is transferred, as a rule of the lowest price and the one on the supplemental list of medicinal products. This way, according to the data available to sick insurance companies, between 700 million and 800 million kunas will be transferred to prescription costs. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the administrative fee on recipes remains so that this change will be a major social impact on the middle and poorer part of the citizens, which is in the state which the Constitution calls "socially inadmissible". Citizens will continue to be burdened by administrative fees despite the clearly expressed attitude of both citizens and medical staff on this socially unfair charge. It is an obstacle to many poor citizens to the use of health insurance rights and even to review in primary health care. And right now, doctors in primary health care are first contact healthcare professionals with a sick insurance company and there must be no restriction on their availability to the most vulnerable and generally the poorest citizens. To ease citizens' dissatisfaction with so much social insensitivity, the health minister informed citizens that the poorest would be refunded and the administrative fee paid. But it is for the poor so expensive and complicated that the refund could not have been achieved. The law also divided the citizens according to the place of residence. The rural population whose incomes are lowest and most insecure has no means of tax or travel expenses, even if only 30 km away from the doctor. The bus ticket back on that route is 70 kuna. That's an incomprehensible amount for them. So, there's law and practice at stake. The law gives the right to health care but the consumption of this right is disabled precisely by the poorest and the most destitute who, under the Constitution, should be under the special care of society. Furthermore, as the Institute of Masters shows by means, Articles 69 and 70 show. The mandatory health insurance law and it is said: "If a surplus of income is determined by the final account, the surplus is entered in the reserve by a minimum of 50% of the surplus income. During the year, the reserve can be used as craftsmanship for the settlement of the current obligations of the Institute" which is fine, but it is wrong that the law says the reserve can be used as a loan. It hides the possibility that money is collected from health care contributions is not actually used for it. In my opinion, this money can be used to improve health care. Finally, in such cases, a reduction in the contribution rate should also be considered, which would relieve our economy and make it more competitive. Further irrationality is also reflected in the new management system of the Health Insurance Office. In the future, it would be managed by a congregation of 43 to 45 members. Who will bear their expenses? Of course, the Bureau. The executive body and the board of directors with nine members elected by the assembly but we don't know who is proposing them. The cost of their work is certainly borne by the Bureau. This can't be called system rationalization. So money continues to be spent irrationally and the burden of irrationality is borne by citizens. Article 99 states that the Assembly must relieve the Director and the Deputy Director if, after three months of business, the excess expenditure is shown in relation to income. In theory, looking at it would be to greet if the results of the business depended solely on the ability of management. Not only does this indicate that in all hospitals today there are higher income expenditures. Well, I guess not all directors are incompetent. Article 108 also states that the results depend not only on the ability of the director and he says: "If the Government of the Republic of Croatia finds that the losses of the institutions in the implementation of compulsory health insurance are due to objective circumstances the recovery of losses is covered by the state budget. However, under Article 99 of the Assembly, the Director and his deputy must be dismissed." This colitision seems absurd. As health funding is collected from contributions, it would be good to know if there are any data on how many unpaid contributions to health insurance have been re-acquired. In 2001, this House passed a bill on the collection of outstanding claims. It was a debt to the state worth 23.5 billion kuna. Debt mainly consisted of contributions to pension and health insurance. Financial indiscipline has again taken hold and employers are again trying to avoid paying commitments. The reason is that Croatia once again has indifference, they are therefore unable to pay. It is generally known that a large part of the employees receive part of the salary through the current account and that part of the employer pays the contributions, while the other part is paid in cash by hand and that part is not paid in contributions. You're still blooming work on black and there's no payment of contributions there either. The government instead of dealing with solving what is known to everyone other than it, it shifts the burden to the built without thinking what it ultimately means to them. Of course, such policy and government action cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61637	Thank you. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61638	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Here, it seems after this many hours of debate that regardless of very diverse health issues, it seems that we have touched really all the most important problems but here let me base my debate more or less on the topic of prevention. First of all, I would like to say that the fact that we have agreed on anything in this debate today is at least somewhat on the need to approach the reform of the health system and also on the reform of the health financing system. Today's system really isn't satisfied. They are not satisfied with those whose system is most important and these are patients, they are not satisfied with doctors, they are not satisfied with the associations of citizens, unions or even politicians. In fact, we agree only on the fact that we want to build a health system as an effective, reliable, accessible, transparent, fast and quality system. But the question is whether the strategy that we are discussing here today can also achieve the announced objectives. In the text we even find the qualification that it is a deep and comprehensive reform of the health system. However, we cannot be taken away from the impression that our goal is to cut public spending costs and to harm private consumption rather than offer the right answers to the question of how to improve the health of our fellow citizens. And 333 thousand signatories of the petition against this and this kind of health strategy and the law packages organised by the union that should actually be participants, the actors in drawing up the strategy said it was a reduction in patients' rights. That patients have recognized and ordered it in some way that it is just a new imposition, a new payment of services without some new quality and that it really is not a strategic reform. But let's get back to square one. For example, the World Health Organization, as the basic objectives of the health system, has determined to improve the health status of the population, adapt population expectations and finance protection against the costs incurred as a result of poor health. So they opted for improving the quality of health on the one hand and the other for prevention. We are, however, talking about savings, poor control of health costs, uncontrolled long-term consumption growth and even lack of strategic development, so we believe that the problem is that in Croatian health today there is a lack of strategy as a document. The truth is, I don't know how exactly the existence of this document will help our fellow citizens achieve what we all want together, which is a better health service. So I think it's important to say that the most valuable thing that we have today in the healthcare system is that they are doctors and medical staff and elsewhere there is also, there are existing infrastructure facilities in which medical care and treatment are being carried out. Unfortunately, this health care, or health care, for both diagnostics and curatives, is long awaited today. First of all, it is also likely that doctors in primary care have too many insurance companies. Part of the strategy deals with this problem and the fact that for this very reason they cannot be adequately devoted to the patient himself and that they are very often reduced to the publishers of specialist manuals and prescriptions if they are the easiest diseases such as virosis, flu or something that can really be treated in an ambulatory way. At the same time, part of the doctors just completed were registered at the Employment Office. They cannot achieve the possibility of specialization and let alone form a new team in private protection. And if we really aim to solve 80 percent of all health problems in primary health care, then we need to talk seriously about financing the hospital's equipment for example for laboratory tests. For the education of medical staff. But at the end of the day and patients about how they can contribute, how can they protect their health with certain measures of healthy life? Of course, medical teams need to be trained. What is also missing in our health care today is also particularly concerned about the relationship between the doctor of this so - called family doctor and the patient. There, this may be especially evident in the primary dental protection and protection of women’s reproductive health. In many European countries, it is perfectly normal for your dentist to call you or someone on his team and schedule a regular six - month examination. The same applies, of course, to the protection of female reproductive health, and it should be made very clear that at the end of the day in Croatia there is also a number of mobile mammographers who can greatly help in early detection of breast cancer, but also, of course, a reduction in the mortality rate in women from this disease. I believe that this obsession with disease and treatment on one hand is justified because of the fact that as a result of war and indifference we have a large number of patients, or that we have a number of people who are suffering from an increase, but it is indeed high time to consider models or all possible forms of prevention that are certainly much cheaper than, of course, the very treatment process on the one hand and that it affects the quality of life of our population. I therefore find it in some way and even unacceptable to conclude in the strategy that, due to the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, we must necessarily reorganise the public health system as the main holder of preventive activities prescribed in the acquis of the European Union. So we have to do this reorganization, the reorganisation of public health as the bearer of preventive activities, for our own sake. Because of the citizens, because of the patients, not because of the entry into the European Union. I think these are the wrong settings that give a completely distorted, distorted picture of health care and health system in Croatia that has such a truly long tradition. So here you would suggest that when this document begins to prepare for the first reading that some of the illogicalities of the document are being corrected and that perhaps you should consider as prophesies that one major part of it is committed to prevention as one more humane form of patient treatment, because I think it is better for all of us to have as little disease as possible. This will be a more rational and quality system, and our doctors will still be able to concentrate on those patients who are really suffering from severe diseases, and not actually deafened by a large amount of patients, many of whom can be prevented or solved in primary health care. So my request would go in that direction to do something about prevention. I think that a while ago, too, the fluoration of teeth in children with an explanation that it is harmful to the organism, but certainly there are some other methods that, as far as prevention is concerned, can be positively affected by dental health, so that there is absolutely certain that the Ministry can give some recommendations and can finance some programs, some methods that will, in that sense, be prevented because there is no people saying in vain: "Better to prevent than to treat." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61639	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61640	Well, here's what I'd do if I could just fix my colleague, Elena. She said that the crowds with our doctors are general practice because they have too many patients. They're not too busy because they'd have too many patients, but they're limited in time. Because in one office they work two teams, one in the morning, one in the afternoon. They have four to five hours of ability to work in that office, so they don't have time to do patients. We inherited it from the former Yugoslavia. You should make one team in one office and then the doctor could work all day and be able to perform all his patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61641	Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61642	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. There, there's a whole day's debate about this important matter. And it's a good thing this debate is a previous debate because it's a matter that's really important. There was also an appeal to avoid a political debate on these materials that are before us today. I'm about to avoid a political debate. However, political debate cannot be avoided because it is a right to health as a fundamental human right and of course there is a difference between the political options in which they see the right, in fact, that fundamental human right. And unfortunately, with us, there are more and more facts being kept quiet, but no matter how much we keep quiet about it, the fact is that in health care there are major inequalities amongst the citizens. The right to health as a fundamental human right is increasingly unfortunately becoming the privilege of the rich. So, unfortunately, to a large extent, one who has money has both health and health, and no matter how hard we try to prove that it's the opposite, I'm convinced, and no one can convince me, unfortunately, that's exactly how it is. Today we have before us a debate on the health strategy and on the set of laws. The intensity was to argue in the package and to be like the first reading, and in some ways you can already see the proposer's relationship to this important matter. By listening to these days of the Minister of Health, which, by the way, I should confess to being here today all day in this assembly, as well as some of us. ... Well, he's not here right now, but he's here all day, unlike some other ministers who are just a random occurrence. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But from what the minister has been doing in the past month, and even today in the assembly, he said, when it comes to the health strategy, and these four legislative proposals that the government has referred to in the procedure, which the government has been discussing, it would be as if there was nothing to object to the objectives, methods and principles proposed in the strategy and in the proposal for these laws that the government has referred to in the procedure. From the reasons given in certain laws, the proposer, who was given the proposal, would have the impression that, for example, a financial sustainable health system is being established, that it is possible to provide better quality and more efficient healthcare services, that it is going to strengthen the role of primary health care, which many colleagues and colleagues have talked about, that information is being introduced and continued training of health care personnel, that, for example, polientriism is being developed in the hospital system, etc., etc. But reality, in my opinion, is something quite different and much more painful. We're getting bigger savings, more investment in the system, and at the same time less patients' rights and more expensive health services, because this comes from these proposals that are ahead of us. There's actually no real reform. It's cosmetic procedures, but unfortunately it's procedures that will break on the back of the poorest. It's about procedures that go to the expense of citizens' standards and thus confirms what the social sensitivity of this government is. There is no real rationalization of the system, but a transfer of burden to patients, to elderly and powerless, to pensioners who with a thousand 500 kuna pensions are not able to pay services, and therefore, unfortunately, their fate is defined. What exactly is going on with this set of government legal proposals and strategy for our citizens? The basketball service stays the same. All will have the right to certain medical services, but will have to participate depending on the property's 5 to 50%. Two lists of medicines are introduced, basically available to all, which is okay, supplemental, available to the rich. That's the principle. Health to those who have paid power. True, additional health insurance remains in the mandatory health insurance system, but the supplemental health insurance policy will not cover the cost of medicines. In these two drug lists, which I think is significant and which are at the core and almost unreachable to the poorest, this second one, I think, is the basic list for everyone, and the supplemental list for the rich. The supplemental list contains medicines with a higher level of prices, and the Institute provides cost coverage at the price of an equivalent medicine from the basic list, and, in contrast, manage whoever can, and the pensioner with a thousand 500 kuna pension certainly can't. It is said here, dear fellow Turkish first said it was the same medicines, only a second pack. It was said here that the former government was blind. I don't believe she was blind, but if they were daltonists, they could agree because they didn't actually see that in those two categories of drugs one of that same quality, the same product just a different pack I guess they recognize the color of that package. But it's not like that. And how can I spread to my mother that because I'm able to, while I can and she can, I can afford this drug from the supplemental list, and she has to do this from the basic list. Therefore, I do not enter into the expertise of those who give it. However, if so, if these are the same medicines, then let us pack them in the same pack. According to this proposal submitted by the Government's administrative fee, a budget-filled fee, and does not contribute to health care, the tax paid again by the poorest, and against which both patients and healthcare professionals are unfortunately left at the same amount of 30 kuna per month. The possibility of insurance companies contract insurance policies is being opened, which could lead to the purchase of supplementary insurance. If we know that today, for example, an additional insurance policy at the Institute pays about 300 thousand pensioners at the price of 50 kuna per month, and that about 700 thousand and more have been released by participation, by removing part of the participation from the additional policy, by the institution, for example the difference in the price of medicines between the basic and the supplementary list, the pensioners will have to pay another 15% of the price with an administrative fee or an expensive policy in insurance companies dealing with supplementary health insurance. This could make the insurance companies a good profit because the policy will certainly include a risk factor, and then normally the sick and the elderly will become inaccessible because they still have a higher risk factor. And that's the health reform that's being carried out at the mouth of the sick, and for those whose material support is most needed. In the bill, there is no categorization of hospitals which is inadmissible, and when it comes to Istria where I come from, unfortunately as the second county in Croatia is behind Zagreb, the hospital is in a very bad situation. On a ranking list of areas where patients are more than 50 kilometers away from the hospital is located in an infamous third place. Does this fact speak of some unmoved statements in relation to the pulse hospital, especially by fellow Hebrang. I read in the paper the other day that doctors are also being fenced by this and this kind of health reform, of these and such laws, the proposed reforms have been fenced by the Croatian Medical Chamber, it has actually been fenced by all the unfavourable consequences which, according to Croatian society, its health system, patients and healthcare professionals will have both national strategy and proposed laws. Then who needs a bill like this? Not to the citizens, not to the experts, so who? This one's so-called. the reform comes down to the mere commercialisation of health activities and meeting the demands of the World Bank and the IMF. These laws and strategies lead us to that in Croatia health depends on the wealth of individuals. Everything smells like reform and proposed laws affecting the most socially vulnerable and sensitive. And to conclude, it's very good that this was a previous debate, that the minister with the co-worker listened to everything that was said today in the assembly and we expect it to be repaired by the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61643	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61644	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Mr. Minister said for a little while, that we should not mix the story of health reform and of the national strategy and I agree with it, of course, but in that case we should not have had a united debate but at least we should have discussed the national strategy individually. This is how we should say in 10 minutes what we think about the national health development strategy from 2006 to 2011 and about seven draft laws. You'll agree that at the very least it's inconclusive and inconclusive. In those 10 minutes, I want to say something, and I'm probably not actually going to use all 10 minutes because my colleagues said a lot before me, but I have to say that today, listening to the debate so far, that consensus is a magic formula that should solve all our problems and so on in health care. In theory, perhaps we can reach that consensus, and what would that mean for our citizens? Would you reach a consensus on bad legal proposals and make a bad strategy good and would that be useful for our citizens? I don't think so. It has been said that we should not politicise this debate, although I believe that the health of the individual, the nation, of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia is a very important political issue, and thus should be treated for what we did not have the opportunity to see today. I simply have the impression that this unpleasant topic is wanted to be removed from the agenda as soon as possible because it is evident that there is no "r" from the reforms, that there is no strategy and that nothing will actually change at least for the benefit of the patients. Unfortunately, there is really no reform, no strategy and nothing will change. We've heard stories today about how the IMF, the World Health Organization, put us in a high 35th place, and that's nice. I appreciate these institutions, but I am far more concerned with the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have shown by the survey that 50% of them are not satisfied with the services they have. 50% for now after these so-called. reforms and strategies absolutely certainly and more. And that I trust my fellow citizens more is a valid reason. They took note of the experience of their own skin on the quality of these services and of that with the full right of the witness. They know as well as we do, how long they have to wait in the waiting rooms, what the service they are receiving, they know that there are not enough nurses, doctors, that waiting lists for individual searches are very long. We said health care should be timely, easily available, effective. If you have to wait a few months for a certain search, it is certainly not timely, it is possible in these few months that you will no longer be alive. These are drastic extreme examples, but very possible. The proposal for these laws and these strategies doesn't see how we're going to have more nurses, more doctors, to keep waiting lists smaller and that's why it's impossible to reach a consensus on this issue. Not because we're bad, not because we don't want to, but because we think these proposals aren't good and they're not going to get a good result. We believe that our citizens have the right to a quality, easily accessible, timely and effective service. They deserve it with their separation. The proposed laws and this strategy will increase the inequality of our citizens that took place by converting and privatising, which occurred in the loss of jobs, which occurred in the loss of jobs, which happened thanks to small pensions, and by the way, those who have small pensions are the most common users of these services, because by the nature of things that make you older, you need help. My colleague Pavicic said that it is necessary to work on prevention, primary and health care and I agree and spoke about education. I think that our fellow citizens are not as much needed as they are poor and unable to live healthy because if you want to eat properly, you need to live healthyly, you need fruits and vegetables, vitamins and everything else that goes along with it, and it costs, and neither with the best will nor knowledge our pensioners can feed so that they can avoid certain diseases, they are condemned to disease and poverty and expect help from us. I agree with my colleagues who say that this situation should be resolved in solidarity and I agree with those who have found that the state of health is more than difficult, and that both the government and the representatives of the majority show the fact that right now we are talking about the National Strategy and these seven laws, the draft laws, regardless of how they are, and the fact is that the government has tried problems that do not date of course since yesterday because the health crisis is going on and going on. The government tried to settle this with administrative fees, abolishing travel expenses, changing directors for the loss of production, and not for political reasons, and brought new directors who saw miracles continue to accumulate debts, but nothing happens to them. Administrative fees and the elimination of travel costs did not, of course, solve health problems because they could not because they were nothing more than fire measures. So what now? It's said to be a matter of profession, management, success, not political similarities, and then we hear the presentation of fellow Milinovic who says "I was welcomed in Rijeka by a knife because they expected me to change theirs, and I didn't even think they were ours". And so, colleagues and colleagues of the subconscious, I guess, can be read, at least that's how I read it, and probably our citizens that there's a division in ours and theirs, and not of the professional and capable, unfortunately, and as long as that's not how this Strategy is, neither this reform is going to produce results in any other fields because they're not so imaginary, they're always moving from the beginning, before me nothing, after me, we're the smartest, we know everything and it's good that they are. That's why it seems to me that seeking consensus on this issue is a possible alibi for the failure of the proposed reforms, small reforms or no reforms, I've heard all this from my colleagues on the left so I don't know for sure whether they think it's a reform or not. I agree with those who think it's not a reform. Unfortunately, neither will this Strategy produce results because it is cosmetic moves, I would dare say that it is a bad face lift, and we all know what it looks like when it is done badly, and I fear that users of these services will quickly find that these are not even good cosmetic changes but really bad face lifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61645	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. It's hard after a whole day's debate not to repeat itself with the predecessors or not to say what's already known, so here I am pre-editing myself because it will certainly be in my presentation. But it is no wonder that today's package of laws that unites 7 health and health insurance laws and the National Health Development Strategy proposal from 2006 to 2011 is such a great interest for all of us, but I would also say to the general Croatian public regardless of the fact that we accepted this debate as the previous one. Health and care about the same interest is of all and healthy and sick so it is quite logical that... quality, meaningful, economically acceptable, but also long-term state-of-the-art legal solutions, I would say for a moment today that I believe is only aimed at the common goal of having better and better quality healthcare available to everyone, especially those who are the sickest and the poor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The old saying says a healthy man has a thousand wishes and only one is sick. On this very trail, and aware of all the complexity of the problems related to health care and ways of solving the same problems, I adhere to all the predecessors and, of course, the position of my club, the SDP club that have claimed that the state of health is not well, that quality and root changes that unfortunately this package of laws does not offer, the strategy in particular or does not offer in a way that could be called acceptable and satisfactory. Only from those laws are seen as said a number of times before me, only cosmetic changes, partial changes, which, unfortunately, do not offer significant improvements in the long term and are almost an alibi for the current difficult financial situation and unfortunately for the many-year losses of which only the loss for the past year is 4.6 billion kuna, of which 65% is for medicines and consumer material. That debt was created and unquestionably needed to be measured. It is only a question of who will do so, in which way, in what time period, it is simpler to say that when we know what state the state budget is in, but also obligations under the contract with the International Monetary Fund. It is precisely this knowledge that makes all of us, as well as me personally more cautious because the proposal inevitably reads the reduction of health rights and the increase in the obligations of citizens. With respect to the current economic and social situation, I believe it is unacceptable for the system to maintain and pay the sick through the already said administrative fees, abolishing travel costs subsidies, additional costs for medicines and others. Quality and timely health care is a fact that it must not and cannot depend on the financial possibility of individuals and thus neither on the fiscal potential of local self-government units nor units of regional self-government, so county. Solidarity, social sensitivity and concern of the wider social community, central authorities must especially be daily and all regardless of financial capacity equally available because the disease chooses neither the person nor the time nor the financial capacity of the patient and is a non-essential place of life and the status of a sick person. I'll only stay in my debate for one part. I'll talk about decentralisation. The strategy highlights this, and there is an emphasis on politic development which I personally support, but I will say and I believe that not only the declarative support is sufficient. It's not enough just to satisfy the shape. We've said down the road that the content is truly more crucial. By decentralisation, the counties were placed in the position of redistributors only of financial means, I would say almost a detour. They don't decide anything at all and they're responsible... for a possible debt health care facility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague spoke of losses in general hospitals, losses caused by which many directors over the past year and were replaced because they were, according to the assessment of the current authorities, both you and Mr. Minister and the previous minister, unable to deal with the weight of the problem, with the tasks they were assigned to. Unfortunately, though, statistics show something else and deny these claims. In 2004, out of a total of 23 general hospitals, the loss showed 16 totalling 140 million and 2 hundred 76 thousand kuna and positive operations by seven hospitals with a surplus income of nearly 25 million kuna. That was in 2004. Unfortunately, in 2005, all 23 hospitals were operating negatively and the total loss was nearly 2 hundred 42 million kuna. From this example, but also from a series of today's shows, the indeterminateness, the lack of but the inadequacy of the system, which is also the national strategy that we have before us and highlighted in this proposal. On page 46 of secondary healthcare, it was said that, with primary health care, secondary health care enters the focus of every planned spatial programme document such as this development strategy. A number of measures will be taken in the organisation of secondary healthcare, including data files, identify the dynamics of the development of the hospital system, the introduction of business institutions from categorization, the deployment of hospital facilities that will be subjected to critical analysis, and the abolition of certain hospitals, the reduction of their number as said in this strategy. Special attention will be paid to the study of the profiles of individual hospitals by activity, to establish the level of professional work but also to the need for such activities taking into account the real needs and the most rational way of meeting them. And not to read any further, this is on page 46. It is said that "the hospitals will be pulled in and rationalised" while on page 18 it is said that "the territorial coverage of general hospitals is not good". So it's not a consistent one and the other document. For these very reasons, I see that time is getting away from me, in the end, to express the following in order not to be in a more complex period of time or in the foreseeable time debate here, I believe in a much broader composition than I am now in the same way, but since time is going unnecessarily in even more complex conditions, perhaps with stronger accusations at the expense of previous and previous governments, which I personally consider to be spent, served, poor, I would say, and needlessly, I would expect from you Mrs. Associates, as the minister goes away to get an updated proposal from the national strategy previously agreed with the social partners, a strategy with all those elements which one serious strategy contains, in the long term, that we first adopt her at the possibility of consensus and then discuss all those laws that the strategy are operationalised to the satisfaction but also for the benefit of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61647	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Marko Turic who's not here. Then Mr. Mario Zubovic also. He's losing his right. Dr. Marijan Mlinaric is also losing his right. Mr. Krono Peronja, too. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61648	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, I will stay the most on the strategy and suggest that this proposed strategy cannot solve all health problems. Let us first try to say whether we have an economic development strategy in the Republic of Croatia. And then we will remember that in 2002, the coalition government adopted a macroeconomic strategy for economic growth, that this was discussed in this House. And then I also remember the basic assumptions from economic growth that said that in 2015 we will have a double amount or somewhere around 15,000 euros per capita. That's basically what's missing from this strategy, a long-term vision. I usually think the strategy means one period of 20 years, not this mid-term balance sheeting. Therefore, if we have already estimated that we can talk about some strategic moves by 2015 that we can then have a GDP per capita of around EUR 15 thousand, then the assumptions that speak about health care are quite different. What are we burdening ourselves with? We are burdened in the strategy that we have relatively the largest consumption of this in the budget, according to the GDP somewhere around 8 to 10% of GDP for health care at the moment. That it's too much consumption and that we just have to do something in that part. And all our problems stem from this relatively high consumption. And we're trying to talk and we have to sort of solve this high budget spending. It was interesting in 2000 when consumption was indeed over 10% GDP. So let's just remember: negative trends, falling below zero growth rates, means minus 0.9 and paying health debt in 2000 resulted in a 10% GDP in the health budget. So the answer is if we have a bigger GDP, if we have a higher growth rate we can also solve our health problems. And there is what I think is missing from the Ministry of Health, that there is a lack of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that must understand that the solution to the problem can be found in a far faster and more quality growth of the economy. However, if we compare the amounts in nominal, nominal consumption per capita, then we will conclude that Croatia far, far lags behind consumption in Europe. So it's not obviously a problem of consumption, it's not as much health expenditure as the problem is insufficient economic activity. Insufficient creative activity. Insufficient jobs and what is important is insufficient investment. And when we get answers and there's no answer in the strategy, then we'll also get very clear messages on how we can solve problems in health care. Because the simple assessment that we have out-of-date buildings, inadequate buildings, that we have lagging behind and a lot of troubled equipment that kind of slows down all those procedures that we have in health care, that we have low wages per employee in health care is the answer that needs to be invested more in health care. How to invest? It is evident not through rationalization, not through tightening, not through cutting, but through caring for economic activities. And, of course, that's where we part when we talk about how to solve the reform of a certain neural point because it's obvious that development, investment, is one of the possible types of solving these problems. In addition, in the strategy do we not say what future sources of funding are? We found that we mostly have a salary contribution, almost 80% as a source of our income for health funding. Do we agree to keep that going? So if we go back to the economy and find that the biggest burden for the economy, for its incompetence, is high, employee expenditures. He's not paying for it. He's paying for it. He's paying for it. It's too big a contribution. So we need to cut our contributions. And at the same time, we determine health care mostly 80 percent of the source of income. So we need to find new solutions. The strategy should offer this. Not a word of it. Why? Well, because we didn't seriously sit down on strategies. We have to change that. What's it supposed to be and how much? Is it okay for these million and 300,000 employees to provide for 4 million and 400 citizens of Croatian health insurance? It's not. So philosophy, you need to cut the contribution to health care on salary. Where to find new sources? In new property taxes. New dividend taxes. In new interest taxes. Because we simply need to understand that richer ones should make a greater contribution if we are talking about solidarity in the health system. No words in the strategy in that part. Why? Why we are afraid to open up the necessary debates that obviously must lead us to a certain goal. We need to link health reform, health crisis and pension reform. Lower pensions. Speaking of generational solidarity. The problem pensions of those who are in the new system. Does that mean we're going to have to increase pension contributions? If we're going to have to increase our contributions again, we need to talk about reducing health care contributions. It's all connected stuff. In this strategy, unfortunately not a word about it. And that's why we say unacceptable are the debates on the legal proposals that are ahead of us because the only solution is that we have no vision of development. We have no vision of how to increase I would say the gross social product of Croatia. We therefore assess that health care costs should be paid sick and I would say those who have been overly burdened with health contributions so far. And if we were to turn our debate that way, I think we would see very clearly certain solutions as well. It remains only to try to determine how dynamic all these changes are because it is evident that we will need a lot of time if we take this seriously into reforms that will then not only include health reform but also the pension system and, of course, the issue of the battle for development in the Republic of Croatia. What I want to say very clearly is we can close our eyes under, I would say by the problem of the financing of county hospitals and primary health care. For the simple reason that the well-founders don't pay their dues. They don't pay because through legal solutions we impose a series of solutions. With these solutions, the founders run away from responsibility. When we talk about the level of home health, then we try to say that someone was closing homes of health. Because he won't understand that the question of the legal personality of the home health should be determined by the founder, not by our legal regulations. Because if we determine, understand, before or after the state budget of Croatia will pay for the losses and the dues. They'll pay. So we'll have extra spending again. And that is why we need to understand that legal solutions in the domain of the organisation must respect the fundamental rights. Founding rights county. Let's not regulate everything because then we'll have to move certain dubiosiss caused by these irresponsible founders to the state budget. And maybe, I'm out of time, so I don't have time to open another dilemma. But only let it remain indicated, deficit budget. The health care requires us to increase the deficit before transferring the responsibility of financing health care to the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61649	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. He's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. We're going to a five-minute debate. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61650	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So I decided to finish this today's exposure with, complete what I had to say about the Health Insurance Act at work that can be considered regarding the national strategy, and especially. So he can stand for himself. Therefore, I think this is an important contribution to the debate and to the possible preparation of a better quality first reading proposal. Furthermore, we appreciate that this matter should and can be separated from mandatory insurance. However, as suggested by Mr Hebrang's special cards are also a special problem that needs to be slowly, should be approached with sufficient caution and considered in particular. As far as the Labour Protection Act, which Mr Hebrang said should be done, or a new law should be made, I consider it to be one of the most harmonised fundamental laws with European legislation. And ensure the smooth development of the protection system at work from the position of active access to this area of particular social interest. At least through the demanding role of social partners in planning and implementing protection measures, based on a written assessment of harmfulness and danger. The development of the work protection system, and thus this insurance system is open. Our circle isn't closed. Of course, it is interesting to the employer that with as little money as possible, minimally arrange protection at work, but the fact that entrepreneurial freedom ends where public interest begins. Quality protection at work is a public interest, so the interests of the employer and the employer's freedoms are ahead. And there's an individual's interest ahead. Therefore, if we allow the employer to negotiate medical work services, then the medical work is subordinated to the employer's interest and is dependent on the employer. If we allow the employer to negotiate the measurement and testing of devices, harmfulness and dangers and microclimate, then it will be at a lower level of quality. He finds it interesting to pay as little as possible to get one minimum standard. The employer should be offered by example in Germany and Austria a complete service of a kind key in his hands that for a unique rate of contribution that includes prevention, labour medicine and testing of the working environment. If the employer does not want to carry out safety at work, then there are two adjustments, a bonus malace insurance system and effective inspection supervision. Furthermore, the law insufficiently distinguishes the procedures for reporting and recognising injuries to work and occupational diseases, and foresees the development of a network of specialists in medical work in their rather invisible or subordinate situation. With little effort, we could make the proposed law a good law, but certainly it would be necessary to understand the overall functioning of the system in parallel and to present proposals for sublegal acts whose number is not so small to which this law is called. There is a particular problem of contributions, payments etc., rights and injuries related to injuries at work, keeping records. I draw particular attention to Articles 25 and 26 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is not such a simple process of recognition or injury at work, nor professional illness. At least I didn't experience it as it says here, and it can't practically be limited in time of three years in which I can report a work injury, yes, but a professional illness does. Because some professional diseases occur 10 years after exposure to certain harmfulities. Here, it's my humble contribution to keep this matter from being neglected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61651	Thank you. For the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, respected representative Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61652	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I wouldn't repeat myself here in my presentation. We heard a lot today. I had a feeling there was something to say that perhaps the minister himself said to the public quite awkwardly when he explained the difference between the price of drugs in the red box and the blue box. Our public still needs to know what the original drug means, and what the generic medicine means. Doctors are mostly familiar with this, but the general public does not know it. To make this easier to understand, and it would certainly be important for healthcare users to know why generic medicine is 20 to 80% cheaper than the original medicine. It is important to say that the original medicines go through their patents that manufacturers have to do, and they usually last up to 20 years. These medicines are protected for 20 years as patent medicines and no one but the manufacturer can use them further and produce them. To understand this, it is certain that we can take an example of our pharmaceutical house "Plyva" that this job has done with the drug "azithromycin" or "summed". If we take "Piva" from 1970 to 1980 to work on the study of this drug and work on its synthesis, then we can figure out how much of this medicine's research activity has been invested. The "Piva" by getting this medicine actually created a new molecule that actually became superior to the original molecule itself. So what happens now? It happens that this medicine is better than the ellithromycin molecule itself, which is somehow the basis of this medicine, and Pliva has been patented on this medicine since 1980, it produces it and produced it for 20 years and none of the other drug manufacturers could do it. After this patent protection that exists for each medicinal product being tested generically, other medicinal products manufacturers have the right to produce this medicinal product. It is normal for this to go with the approval specifically in the Republic of Croatia that is the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. And the question is, in the end, why is this drug so much cheaper? Well, he's cheaper for those reasons because these pharmaceuticals use means one finished product, they don't invest in him except for that substance that's medically important, and we have to say that the efficacy of generic drugs is the same with the effectiveness of the original drugs. The difference is that there is a difference in the substance that binds the chemical substance to whether it is a capsule or preferable or similar. We have to say that this discovery of Pliva's drug is one of the biggest research ventures in the history of Pliva, and that Pliva has won an American award for this from an American society of chemists who, the prize is called "heroes of chemistry" in 2000. For this reason, I should repeat to our public that the generic medicine is a pharmaceutical product that is identical or equivalent to that in the original product at a dose of safety, quality, form, administration and indications. If these medicines, means generic medicines use rich countries like the United States and 15 European Union countries, I see no reason not to explain this in a simpler way to our public and that people simply accept generic medicines as the original medicines, which would certainly be a great saving for our health care and improving health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61653	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61654	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP Club proposes that the Minister make important changes to the Health Strategy document, that the document really goes to projections of economic growth by 2015, which in itself will mean greater growth of the social product, and therefore less burden in relative numbers when we speak in budget sizes for health care. At the same time, we estimate that the minister should also advocate greater deficits in the budget if it is what and how health pay will pay and we estimate that at this time no one can dispute us and some major deficit if we want to invest in rebuilding, modernising health care, and thus solving the accumulated problems. And of course we would also be responsible for those who are interpreted as requiring greater deficits then we need to establish new taxes with which we will settle the expenditure on health care, new taxes for reasons that we simply need to reduce health contributions so that the economy is more competitive and that we can start solving accumulated problems in the pension system. Thus, if we make these important turns with the strategy, individual solutions in the laws will go less on the burden of the sick, less on the share of the sick in paying the costs, and in some ways there will be more solidarity in the distribution of health costs rather than the transfer of health costs to the sick and poor. We also expect the minister in the strategy to say a little more about the changes that must be made in the organisation of health care in order to get more responsibility for the owner or better say not to the owner than to the founder of health institutions and that the simple cost and responsibility for supervision and control would fall on the founder rather than to transfer it to the state budget because of the legal solutions. What the SDP club also suggests is that the minister is trying to settle compensation and cost-refunding for children and the treatment of children up to 18 years old, given that the procedure for the adoption of new laws will be delayed, so we appreciate that the minister could fix it quickly, whether by a government regulation or otherwise. And it also suggested that during this period until the new draft laws and first readings, the Ministers also perform the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the necessary discussions, consultations and agreements with the social partners so that the debate on the new proposals itself is better quality... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61655	Thank you. Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic, Final Review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61656	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here I am thanking you, if I am not mistaken for more than eight hours of today's debate, but here I was here today with you carefully listening to everything that's been said here. It's been said a lot of quality, and I have to admit very good suggestions. We will, of course, appreciate it entirely, and I hope, in fact, that certain adjustments will be made, which will certainly be, because I say we heard very good suggestions and that we will, of course, have with it what we started this morning, and that is that consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61657	Thank you. Does the SDP counseling club want? Yeah. With regard to the law amending the Health Insurance Act, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61658	Thank you, Mr. President. This is because we decided this morning at the beginning of the debate that all the laws on which the debate was united, and it concerns health insurance to carry out previous discussions, so that our proposal on the completion of the Health Insurance Act, which regulates cost-refunding, travel costs for children up to the age of 18. Since the government has similarly solved this problem in a similar way, I would ask the Minister to transfer this problem to the Government because it actually lasts from 1.10 when the amendments to the Law came into force last year and it is a major blow to the home budgets of families that have such children. It is sufficient that such a child has and should not be subject to additional costs. We have information that a part of the children interrupted mandatory therapy which I do not think is good and given the size of the costs for these purposes in 2005 until the start of the application of the amendments to the law, so until 30.9.2005, which amounted to less than 3 million kunas, I don't think we should allow ourselves the luxury to continue to be in force, so we can solve it either by the government regulation or the urgent amendments to the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u61659	Thank you very much. The other promoters of these two identical laws have no intention of taking a word. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we should also vote on this, namely to send the government to the procedure for a new session that will be held in early May and then to the first reading of these laws, the Strategy and at the end of May or early June and the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session by voting. Please engage. Gentlemen and Madam Representatives, please engage. How about a score? 84 for now. So we have enough MPs. We're going to the vote. First, the National Health Development Strategy proposal 2006 to 2011. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A preliminary debate was held on the proposal of the National Health Development Strategy 2006 to 2011. All comments, proposals, opinions will be sent to the applicant for the preparation of the National Health Development Strategy proposal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 100 votes, the proposed conclusion has been unanimously reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63832	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. 9 o'clock in the evening, after a full-day debate on health care, although our Interruption at the beginning and early March was the aim of the debate in the Assembly at the beginning of a small problem as to whether it was drawn up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not, so the President of the Parliament, on several occasions, was returning the text to repairs, and it happened that the text of the Interpelation was managed on the same day that the Government sent the health reform package to the Parliament, but I admit the first time was the error of our computer and half of the responsibility of the delay was on me personally or on my club. ... And only half, forgive me, I don't know what to do with the other half... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And if I have to go to someone else then I'll go to the minister and then it's the easiest thing for me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When's the Interpellation taking place? If the Government deviates from the declared policy. During his opening speech and presentation and candidates for members of the government, Prime Minister Sanader came out with a programme of government work for the term of office. In this programme special attention and chapter has also been given to health care. After two years of the government's mandate, we have analyzed that part of the programme and found that there are 9 points in it, so in the government programme that we have assessed and we are still assessing that their implementation was not done or was not done quickly and energeticly enough, or that something that was done was the opposite of the programme presented by the candidate then, and later, Prime Minister Sanader. The Government's programme, among other things, promised to specify the package of services covered by compulsory insurance. In its indication of this point, the Government states that it is precisely this package of compulsory health insurance services that is prepared by a new law, i.e. amendments and additions, and by a new law and strategy. This is simply not true because the law does not specify and does not specify a package of services, but Article 19 does not specify a package of services. The law empowers the administrative board of insurance undertakings to establish each year a package of services as well as the conditions and means of exercising the right of this package of services. If we can treat those basic health insurance rights that this government has acquired by taking over the mandate as a package of services, then we have also listed 6 interventions in the regulations of this Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which was adopted by the administrative council, with the prior consent of the Minister of Health, in which each, two, three or more of the rights of that package of services has been reduced, not one increased, and never until we came up with a proposal from the health insurance companies that are entitled to do so, except for those citizens who have been potentially subscribed to the National Journal, so we could find out from them what rights they are exercising. The second point of the Government's promise was to introduce systematic monitoring of the overall costs per insurance undertaking, thus enabling the rationalisation of financial resources without reducing the level of health care. In his statement, the government said the Croatian Institute introduced the principle of a single identification health number for the purpose of monitoring both the costs per person and the monitoring of the health status of citizens. I didn't find that number on my medical card. But do you really believe that in these twenty-six months, there has been no reduction in the health rights of the insurance company as mentioned in point 2. That this rationalization of primary health care is without reducing healthcare, not by the decisions of this Parliament, nor by the Government always but by the Governing Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. And for any such decision in the amendments to the existing package or basket of services, prior consent must be given and given by the Minister of Health. The third item was "Preventive health programmes that will be taken over by primary health care based on specific financial stimulation". The government's obvious data is that from 90 to 2003 it was not there and then suddenly there was a boom of preventive health checks. But the emphasis was special financial stimulation. So how much did the Croatian Health Insurance Institute give special financial incentives to primary healthcare doctors at that time and how many hospitals? It is said that as many as 23 people who have passed those examinations have been sent to a specialist-consular health care office within the hospital most likely. It was a new hospital cost. How many hospital restrictions have been increased by these additional costs? Where are these special financial incentives, in which contracts, with whom? What authority did the owner of the facility, the home of health and the hospital have in this regard? The next item, "In primary dental protection, mandatory dental protection programmes will be introduced with a full programme of prevention involving mandatory checks and fluorination of teeth and drinking water and costs covered by mandatory insurance," the government programme reads. The government responds that this part of the program has also been implemented in such a way that children are divided toothbrushes. A brush in his Saint Nicholas boot. Now, if the prevention of dental dentistry is St. Nicholas's and the toothbrushes in the boot, then that's how the government's program was supposed to write. But the government's programme clearly said mandatory health insurance, complete prevention of dental procedures. St. Nicholas in the government program was not mentioned how much I was able to read. Five "In the state hospital... Doctors will be given additional work." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By copying the points of our interpretation, the government dropped this extension of point 5, so it says only "doctor's extra work in hospitals". Then we debated all day and the minister said it proved to be bad, that the supplemental work of doctors in institutions where the working relationship of the patient's association is against it. I was at first against it when he got in and it doesn't matter what I think about it. It is important that the government in its programme said that supplemental work will enable doctors in hospitals rather than end. The government is now proposing to abolish. Six "The categorisation of hospitals will be carried out to determine the financial plans. Today, the same thing is said in all documents that categorization will take place. I've been hearing about this categorization for eight years, and we can't spend it. And even when Mr. Hebrang was first Minister of Health, and for the second time, financial plans will be submitted. By what criteria do we today determine the financial plans of hospitals and limitations? What are the criteria that apply today? The number of beds per thousand residents, the number of beds per thousand insurance companies, the number of employees per bed, the number of medical staff per bed, the average number of days of lying in the hospital, the medical and non-medical staff ratio, and I am particularly glad that the minister mentioned for the first time today another criterion is extremely important how many percent of the gravitating patients that the general hospital takes care of 60, 70, 80% or sends to other hospitals and thus saves its limit. Therefore, the government did not realise that part of the programme in the first part of the mandate. So we have a situation that hospital budgets from hospital to hospital with approximately the same departments of the same structure per bed are different on an annual level of even 20,000 kuna. I guess it depends on who the principal is. County hospitals will be divided into local and regional. The number of employees will comply with the category of institution. In response, the government said only part one, and the 2005 data I read the other day, so hebrang said that for 2003, spending on employees or salaries between some hospitals, for example in one hospital on the bed is 216 thousand and in another 108 thousand with approximately similar departments. So did we have a rationalization of hospital employees? Hospitals will finance paid services with a gradual transition to main diagnosis payment. Monitoring of the costs will be initiated by the patient and the individual physician. Is that in place? It's not. For each of these points, the Government is clearly calling for a strategy. But the strategy and these laws that we've discussed today do not foresee an increase in hospital limitations. If the hospital has 90 million kunas per year, will it get paid per bed? Based on her diagnosis or something else, it doesn't matter because the mass of her assets remains the same. And the diagnosis of how is it that they appreciate operations of the same, same operations in general hospitals and clinics are even 40% different? The last item of the programme that we consider important has been the provision of an additional health standard by stimulating and involving private offices in a voluntary supplementary insurance system. And here the government has played with words in its obvious. In the original text of the Government programme, he writes supplementary insurance, not voluntary insurance. Therefore, what we have discussed today, both by increasing standards and by including private individuals, is not proposed as part of the supplementary but voluntary insurance, an additional one. And so there was a significant deviation. What are the consequences of the deviations from these 9 points of the government's programme. First, there is not enough resources to cover health care costs from basic health insurance. We all admit that. That health care is in the deficit, that there is not enough money either through contributions or from the budget and therefore there are debts that no one can pay. Not enough funding has been provided for the county hospitals' budgets. The debt of county hospitals for more than 90 days is growing. When we add up primary health care and clinics if I'm not mistaken, they're currently over 990 million kunas. That's the information I found in the explanation of one of these laws we discussed today. Health insurance rights have been reduced from basic health insurance. Four, patient waiting for diagnostic checks and surgery has been extended. Fifthly, new fees are introduced, paid by insurance companies that were not even mentioned in the government's programme and no measures have been taken to combat healthcare corruption. For each point in its statement, the Government is calling for a National Strategy. But every one of them. So what does the government say in the National Strategy? The measures to reduce the annual deficits that the government has taken so I quote the strategy: "First, increasing revenues through payments, administrative fees and voluntary insurance. Secondly, the financial responsibility of the general hospital owners is therefore the county. Limiting the costs of suppliers and limiting the cost of payment to service providers." I couldn't possibly understand how service providers are limited costs but I guess they are. Primary health care is financed through the chieftains, hospitals or myths and the capital investments of the state and again quote the local administration. The local administration, as you know, doesn't exist. There is local self-government, regional and regional self-government. But local administration doesn't exist. The strategy also says that hospital expenditures reach 80% of the annual budget due to collective agreements. And the hospital's responsibility for business is in the county. Decentralised 2005 funds. 398 million. Total capital investments of 577 million and yet again the counties are not sufficiently interested in investing in health care. Take a look at page 23 because they only stand out 3.3% of their budgets for health services. And then the Ministry of Health forms a commission that takes control of the management of health institutions past the owners and founders. And they don't even know that this commission was founded as if they were suspended administrative councils. The problem of medicines is solved through prices and other problems, too much consumption per patient. Well, there are possibilities to limit prices. Limit the number of recipes. And limit consumption per patient. Now, is it true that the strategy says that primary healthcare doctors and specialists prescribe too many medicines as much as 30%? Is that the problem of the Parliament, the county as the owner of the House of Health and Hospitals or the profession? It is also said that the increase in patients who ended up from primary in hospital specialist treatment is 30%. That primary health care doctors have turned into handbooks. Is that the problem of the owner of the facility or the profession? Is it the mayor's fault that doctors send for specialist examinations or the chairman of the Board of Directors? So that's why the county's gonna take care of the hospital's losses. The strategy mentions and offers as one of the possible solutions to the daily hospital and the hospice. Finally, in Croatia we also begin to discuss hospices and daily hospitals. Only how many hospices and daily hospitals are proposed by 2011. As a reduction in hospital costs, the hospital can reduce hospital costs by at least 15%. And the hospice is even more than that, because you know well how many patients we're holding in hospitals, so that they can resolve through hospice. Andrija Printar is mentioned in all the documents in today's debate, and everything that I Andrija Printar promoted and made us do the opposite of that. Where are health homes as a place and a pillar of primary health care? So allow me, if the senior government made a mistake, why do you continue it? So correct that mistake. All the countries that have accepted Andrija Printar's access apply his teachings, we go the other way. But you didn't write in the government program that it took you five terms to fix your mistakes, but in one term.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63833	You're going to be a little bit more still.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63834	And what's wrong with this strategy? And why didn't the government write in its own statement? How long have the patients been waiting? Are the waiting lists increased or decreased? In the picture of the disease, 40% of the disease and even death are caused by heart and blood vessels. When the first five diagnosiss are summed up. How long have the patients been waiting for the cardiologist's turn? How long have they been waiting for a simple ultrasound? Computerized tomography? The magnetic resonance? Bronchoscopy? My colleague Hebrang says less than in Germany. ... Shorter, not less. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This may be here in Zagreb, colleague Hebrang. I've been talking to some people who've been waiting eight months. But it's not a problem, it's a problem not to wait longer than 60 days. That's how the rules are today. It's the rule of the Croatian Institute. And it's the right of a patient to get a favor behind it, and he doesn't get one. So if that's how you send him to Germany, that's where he'll be sooner. How many heart surgery and blood vessels are performed by public hospitals, and how many private? How come you've been waiting six months with a heart surgery manual and a six-hour cash? Poor German people, fellow Hebrang. What is the situation in Croatia with voluntary blood donation? What is the state of Croatia with organ donation and how many hospitals are currently qualified for exploitation? How much financial stimulation are there for hospitals to exploit? And I'll finish the next one, we'll settle the health care bribe. I quote: "Special measures and voluntary health insurance.". Complementary, voluntary, more standard. Someone today said a fake picture of this health problem was created. I wish that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament would allow those who were subject to this to testify, so that they would not be used in surveys and evaluations. But there is a problem in Croatian health care. We have warned of the consequences that have created a derogation from the government's programme. Interpletion is a means to warn the government of this, to point out our arguments and offer cooperation. The government has rejected all allegations. With those points where she had no arguments reshaping our allegations, she did them a little bit, and left something out. So if the strategy is the government's response to all of these nine points, there's another problem, and that's what I end up with. Government programme for the 2003/2007 term of office. And the strategy is 2006 through 2011. So the strategy can't be an answer to these 9 points from our interpretation, because this was said by 2007. We often use data from abroad. How we like it. Well, then what country and how much data we could use. But because of the weather, we're going to the opening part of the strategy. What country could be compared to the number of occupational injuries and occupational diseases? What country could be compared to complications due to the independent provision of services? What country would be compared by the number of firm measures taken against unconscious doctors who made mistakes? What state could be compared to the amount of funds that we provide for, from which we finance the health system? What country in Europe stands out 500, 496 euros per capita? We have a problem with the comparison in Europe when the data is not positive when we don't respond. But these programmes of the government were neither for England nor for Germany, but for Croatia. And that is why we have assessed the need to question the government's work in the field of health care. The government responded that the strategy and this package of laws solve all problems. I don't think so. Because no new Health Protection Act has been proposed which would provide for, among other things, categorization of hospitals. A new model of health insurance and protection financing has not been offered. It has not been said and offered whether contributions to health insurance will be reduced and part of it compensated from other sources such as interest taxes. It is not said whether the funds the hospital will have on an annual basis in the next calendar year will remain the same or will be increased. It is not said whether a network of health care institutions will only be able to give an opinion or consent. The current bill of law we had today, just an advisory opinion, but not an agreement, and it is responsible for the results of the business in that same network of health institutions. And finally, I would like the President of the Board of Directors of the Health Insurance Institute to repeat what they repeat at informal talks and at the board meetings, whether this is enough or not, whether it is an optimum or not. Whether or not we can repay the debts that exist with those funds. And in the end, always what claims opposition isn't true, it's not true, it doesn't matter. In today's debate in the government's package of proposals, we tried with our views to help the minister, he said he would carefully study and listen. I expected you to listen carefully to our arguments, but you don't have the will. But it doesn't matter what I think about health care, it doesn't matter what you think about it, the most important thing is that the citizens of this country think about the health services they can get. That's the most important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63835	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to explain the government's impellation report? Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll go with Mr. Lesar's words. It's true, it's important to us that citizens think about our system and unfortunately we haven't really had that data for a long time, and now we're on our way here you've seen it, and we've made a little media announcement with a big poll where we're looking at exactly the quality, or how happy our citizens are with the quality of the service they're getting. A number of other studies that have been performed were done on a sample of a few hundred or perhaps a thousand or so, it is inadequate. Every survey needs to be conducted scientifically. Allow me to make it clear to this Interpletion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not find the basis for the Interpletion submitted, however, I would like to make it clear here that by carefully analysing the Interpelation because we have really analysed it in detail, so I must say that and, of course, the explanation that is related to this Interpellation which should be supposed to clarify the needs of Interpellation, I am first set up by a dilemma on the motive of impelation, i.e. what actually the promoters had for the purpose. In fact, I have to make it clear from the whole Interpletion, there's one big dose of politics, but what I'm kind of sad about is that the Proposers Interpelation submission is March 23rd, and they're very concerned about the system of health, and we're actually our national strategy and a complete package of laws put into public debate on February 17th and now they're repeating certain questions after actually, a month after and more than a month after we started public debate and now I'm actually wondering what kind of big concern it is that was not involved here in the public debate. But I leave it to individuals at will, and I will give the answers in short, and I will make it clear, so that we cannot accept this Interpol for simple objective reasons. First of all, as far as the service package is concerned, or what we like to say is baskets of services. Everywhere a basket of services can be determined in two ways, I've already said that today. We have defined ourselves in a way that determines the percentage, so that's one principle that has about 4 or 5 countries and in Europe. We think it's a good principle and we're not giving it up right now. It was first proposed in 93, adopted, so the former government accepted it, we continued it, and I just don't think there's any reason to give it up, and this can be read in this new mandatory health insurance bill. Systematic monitoring of the total costs per insurance undertaking as a basis for the rationalisation of financial resources without reducing health care. It's true, we've introduced a unique identification number. We didn't want to go with new cards on which to write that identification number why, because with the realization of the portal in HZZO, and you know that we announced it and that it already works very well, we want to introduce so-called soon. A smart card, so it'll have that identification number amongst other things. But at this point, it is actually connected to each individual card, so for each individual card, and we are now, of course, following everything in the drug policy, and we have made that clear, and precisely because of the monitoring of this drug policy and what we have seen, there has been a solution to the whole series of problems. You'll remember what we had with methadone, you'll remember what we had with therefore illegal prescription of different medicines, and that's why we could solve it and not only that, but we actually got a premise of what we're proposing, and that's a change in drug policy. Preventive health programmes that will take over primary health care based on specific financial stimulation, so today we have spoken clearly and I will say it publicly and clearly here. The fact that 23% of our citizens went to specialists, I was actually very concerned by the health minister, which means it's 23% of the case that was hidden. So these are diseases that weren't manifests, which our citizens didn't recognize because we discovered it through these preventive examinations. What's the cost of me as the Minister of Health I don't want to think about it, because it's a good thing for a man, a good for a person. And so what I want to say clearly, and here it has been and it has been emphasized for the first time that we have introduced and paid for the treatment procedure within and these preventive checks. These are all steps and means we have realised since 2004 and 2005, so what we have stated and, of course, we are now continuing to detect certain carcinomas of which we have also talked a lot here today. Programmes of mandatory dental protection with the entire prevention programme in primary dental care. Here on World Health Day, we presented the health book for the first time. You know what the men of the profession told me, our pediatricians? Professor Juresh, here's the very school of folk health Andri Printar, so our distinguished professor literally cried. Her dream of getting a children's health book or as we actually called it from birth to adulthood she finally and lived and we put the bond inside, and that with a 6-year-old clear dental card, with a 12-year-old again actually dental checkout. Then we will be able to compare ourselves for the first time with other European countries. The doctor's extra work at the hospital that we'll make it possible? We will, and I said it today, but clearly and clearly. How? It is through additional health insurance and the system they have, and I have also shown it today by most European countries. The categorization, the accreditation of hospitals, I think it's too high, today we've talked a lot about it, one of the priorities of this government, I'm going to say that the first phase is over, the first phase has passed the domestic, foreign review, one and the other are assessed positively. Right, there were some changes in that, we made them, we got positive, and after that, it follows, so it's already in the making of phase two. I expect that by the end of the year we will have practically normative acts and move forward. The division of county hospitals to local and regional and coordination of the number of employees with the categorization of the institution naturally relies on this process of categorisation and accreditation. Payment by main diagnosis and cost monitoring per patient to a separate doctor. I'm going to say paying for the main diagnosis is exactly what we're proposing, so that's the DLG system that started in its "pilot project", and as far as paying is concerned, so forgive the patient and the departmental doctor for that, that's something that will actually be solved by the information, so right now we've matched the terms of the competition. I'll make it clear right away that the tender for hospital information is an extremely demanding competition. Believe me, there were over 50 top experts working on it because we remember what it was before, and that means when it started unprepared in that contest and then no hospital wanted to accept it because we didn't elaborate on what it was about. Therefore, the final insurance of the supplementary health standard by stimulating and including private offices in the supplementary insurance system. Right, supplemental insurance is part of voluntary insurance, so you can have it, you don't have to have it. At this point, we have not further defined as such, but defined voluntarily, and in the context of it additionally. Today, there's a "Croatia Insurance" offered for 130 kuna, so two or three per month, now here's to correct me I don't know, specialist examinations and once a year the equivalent of one computerized tomography and one magnetic resonance and another house ensues it. Therefore, I must confess to all that we have said we have fulfilled, but here we have shown legally. So we don't find the basis for the submitted Interpellation, and right now, all I can say is that the government is therefore not accepting the Interpellation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63837	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63838	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed Minister of Health. So we're gonna support this impellacy, and why? Because in some ways, I don't know, the government tricked us or led us astray. Namely, here are the promoters Mr. Lesar, Mr. Doric and other members of the HNS club literally state on the fourth page: "Although the condition of Croatian hospitals are currently being built, that is only those hospitals where the works started during the term of office of the previous government of KBC Zagreb and the county hospital in Čakovec, Zabok, Varazdin and Zadar". Among other things, it is said, and particularly the fact, that it bothers them that the recent agreement between the Government and the County is Istrian according to the same model used for the other county hospitals has agreed on the government's participation in the construction of a county hospital in Pula amounting to as much as 350 million kuna. A similar agreement the government recently signed with the County of Koprivnica-Criszevnica on the addition of the County Hospital in Koprivnica. However, in this report on Interpelation, the government literally tells us what they are financing, that is, what they are building, and then it is said that by documenting the development projects of clinical general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, which as a plan for the development of hospital institutions in the Republic of Croatia by 2010, the government has accepted the conclusion, etc., mentioned here KBC Zagreb, but normal works that are under way would cost 500 million kuna, which means nothing has been singled out. Then it is said: "The General Hospital of Koprivnica is financed from the World Bank's loan, and the difference of the confirmatory funds for the construction of the hospital until its full functioning will be provided by the Koprivnica-Crizevnica County from the loan", then the City of Vukovar, or the General Hospital of Vukovar, which is located in the area of special state care which is also being built, is mentioned by KBC Rijeka as the institution whose founder of the Republic of Croatia, etc., but no mention of the General Hospital of Pula is mentioned in any word anywhere in this impellation report. The truth is, the 2006 budget provides 13.8 million kuna, probably for project documentation, but that's all. It is necessary for that hospital to provide about 450 million kunas per key 70% of the state, 30% of the County of Istria, but apparently neither in this 2006 nor in 2007 will it likely happen from the beginning of the works, nor will the County of Istria have received what in the meantime? She only got the right to settle her debts, and the debts de facto are made by someone else. Recently in the county, we're in debt, we're raising a 70 or 80 million kuna loan, it seems to me 70 million kunas to get rid of some of these dubiosises that won't stop, but from year to year, new circus 15 will be created, and maybe 20 million kuna a year. What really pleasantly surprised me is a small interview, a statement by Mr. Radiir Cacic, Croatia's Business Week, who now has a varazdin mayor of our colleague who literally said, "Our county will not pay any debts from hospitals. It's about the systematic, organised putting of counties and county hospitals ahead of blackmail. Obligations are transferred to local and state-level. So Minister Ljubic signed a new salary law and the obligation to meet them gave to the counties. The County can't even pay for it." Commented Varazdin Mayor Radimir Cacic on the health debt situation of a clearly general hospital in the area of its county or its town. Now, since he's about to realize that attitude, I don't know. But I doubt he's going to pay in the end. I'm sorry, that the Varazdin County won't have to settle those obligations. Now, if the state assumes obligations to the Varazdin County and Istria has to pay for something where, for example, it's not onion or onion-scented, I don't know what's left of us, only to put a wall on Učka. Gentlemen, so this problem of county hospitals, which is why I'm saying it, is an indecisive problem for our county. The truth is, this problem does not date from this government, it is created by Valentiæ's government if I am not mistaken there in 94, when the law defines that our counties are the founders of these institutions or institutions and actually the funds are being provided elsewhere. In that law she did not touch Matthew or Racan’s government, as the Sanader government does today. However, we have a situation that the budget, for example, is about 200 million kuna County and that the needs of the General Hospital in Pula are more than 210 million kuna. So, more than the county budget. It's probably the same situation in Varazdin, I don't know Požega where the county's supposed budget is about 70 million kuna. Here, I am pleased to see Mr. Cacic, the mayor of the Varazdin County today talking about such a problem and that this conflict with the state is not "only" between Istria and the government. General hospitals, as that means, should, at the very least, be returned to the state. Take care of them when you decide everything else from the limit all the way there to the specialization. I'm gonna go back to some other moments from this interpretation and I've been talking about it this morning. Surely, we are all aware that health care costs, and we all probably agree that we have excellent doctors. And what are we trying to do? We're cutting costs, okay. It's all right. However, we want to admit it to ourselves or not, on an annual level, we lack a billion and a half to two billion kunas. So, not only that, but even further from year to year, we reduce the participation of health care in the gross social product. Right, we can be called on to, as Mr. Hrelja transferred this morning to solve the work on black etc., or as I was saying, I don't know how to solve some other moments, reduce unemployment, but without some new rates, some new separations are hard to solve this problem, and I'm afraid general hospitals with themselves as things today can be pulled out of the county. We have the opportunity to say this morning that unemployment is halved in half and then 200 thousand or 150 thousand additional employees solve these problems. However, it is clear that none of us believe it at this time. Third, and that's what I'm gonna say. If someone who, for example, had one of their own in the hospital for treatment, the one who was being treated would currently agree and "increase" by, say, contributions by 0.5 to 1%, just that the system in which he is operating is impeccable. We have, I repeat, great doctors, but there's a question of what conditions they're working on. And I'll repeat what I said this morning. Equipment, medicines, etc. I don't know about the heart surgery in Zagreb cost or the Rivers the same as in Padova or Milan. The dialysis machine in Croatia costs the same as in Austria. I don't know about liver transplants, which has recently been done, and in Rijeka costs the same as in the United States or Japan, with the pay clearly being made by our doctors perhaps five, six or seven times less than in those centers. I think as unpopular as it is that Croatia without money, means additional money will not help health care. How there are two solutions. First of all, reductions in the restrictions on medicines, rights, etc., I don't represent it. So what I'm indirectly up against is, among other things, an increase in contribution. Mr. Linic mentioned an increase in some taxes. I personally advocate a progressive increase in contributions to say up to 2 thousand and 500 kunas would not be touched, from 2 thousand 500 to 5 thousand kunas to raise the contribution by 0.5 points, from 5 thousand to 10 thousand kuna by 0.75%, from 10 thousand to 15 thousand by 1%, from 15 thousand to 20 by 2%. If somewhere it means solidarity, then I keep it here. The Health Employers' Association recently proposed this 1 % solidarity contribution, i.e. Returning to 16% as it was there until 2001. The IDS would support this, but provided that this money remains in the districts where it is realized and I guarantee you that it would fully resolve the problem of general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia and in some other cities where clinical hospital centres the standard of health would rapidly increase. Mr. Linic on the other hand, I listened to him just before in a five-minute debate, he mentioned taxes. But what taxes do we have? We've got VAT, we've got real estate tax, profit, income, construction land, taxes, etc. And I don't know if it's possible to find any space here. We may be in debt, but that's a question as far as and how. So in a situation like this today, which is well described by the interpelicator, we see that neither the IMF nor the IMF is pressuring the government about health care. They probably understand for themselves the seriousness of the situation in which the country is located, and they probably don't want to further, I don't know, make it difficult for all of us. At the end of the total health expenditures are 16.2 billion kuna, revenues last year were 14.7 billion kuna. So we're short those billions and 500 to 2 billion kuna, and these measures that we've been discussing this morning provide savings from some 303 million kuna, which will say that the debt in health and additional generation will be generated. So I agree with all those who claim that this is no time for politicizing. It is time indeed for a comprehensive consensus, and perhaps we do not politicise around the allocation of additional funds either from the tax, or from the contribution, and in the event of an increase in the meaning of these taxes or contributions, and with the aim of solving opportunities or difficulties in health care, because if not, this government will unfortunately have to do so at this point, it will have to do the future government. Because she will certainly be left with certain debts she will not be able to escape from. As this government could not escape debt in the former government's health care system, or as the third-month administration could not escape health debt from the governments it inherited by taking over the country on January 3rd. So we support this interpretation most because of the dissatisfaction with the General Hospital in Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63839	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63840	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the allegations that colleagues of Cain are being disturbed by the hospital of Koprivnica and Pula. ... We do not mind Pula or Koprivnica, but we have cited these two examples as evidence that they were not correct claims that the project Zaboka and Čakovec is illegal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because on the same principles is the government, this government signed a contract for both Pula and Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63841	For the HNS Club, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63842	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We're all a little tired already. I don't know if I should start with the nice part of the story or the ugly part of the story and end up with the nice part. ... No, it won't work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no two fine works. I'd like to thank my colleagues from the HDZ Club first. It's ten o'clock. You're still in the benches. I want to thank my colleagues from HSU and colleagues Cain. It's nice, it's correct, it's a political culture to listen to the opposition at this time. So I think it's important to say thank you, Mr. Minister. And you've been with us for 10 hours. We don't even see many ministers suggesting laws from their portfolio, and you've made one big, big exception here. But I must say that I do not agree with you in any other way especially in your surprise why impelation? Then why the opposition? In Croatia, there is a beautiful old aphorism that people attach to the word. Okay? For the word. People get attached to words. Okay? Now I'm just gonna stay here for the first half of the aphorism. If that's the case, then politicians should tie themselves to Mr. Minister for the Word and we and they're me, I mean people. By my deep conviction. Maybe I'm wrong. Let me make a mistake. Now, if that's the case, then why the impelation? So as an opposition we followed closely, we carefully respected everything Prime Minister Sanader said here for this speaker on December 24, 2003, when he proposed a government programme, when he proposed a government programme. So take the phonogram from that session, and take the program that's been shared with us. Take point 9. Society under point 9.7 of healthcare and read everything that is then promised. The opposition follows, the opposition respects. We haven't touched you in two-thirds of the term of office in two years. We now feel that at least some results should be behind us when we look over our backs or over our shoulders. Now you're wondering why the impellation? That's exactly why. Look, please! Read carefully what was promised then. We can only say that many of these items have not been realised. There's a lot of announcements, though. We've even agreed with a lot of these suggestions. That clear views in the programme have been identified. That it was promised that there would be a change. That the changes were lagging behind and that, in turn, they had deviated from the programme. In our interpretation, we clearly explain where these deviations occurred? Look at the state budget for this year, see the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2004 Health Insurance Act, National No. 177, 30.90. Take a look at the consent that the Government gave HZZO to the Standards and Standards of Health Security from basic health insurance from this year and last year. And what I said in the previous debate is that I am not repeating here the goal of a series of regulations that the Government has not passed and should have passed under the law that this House passed on July 17, 2003. So these are the elements that we ask the government why it didn't happen? Why hasn't there been a realization? In this respect, sufficient resources are not provided to cover health care costs from basic health insurance. There's not enough budget funding available for county hospitals. Health insurance rights have been reduced from basic health insurance. We've already discussed this today, so I won't owe it here and so on and so on and so forth. We've got all of that here tax-listed. In fact, overall obligations are on several examples just to demonstrate it. The hospital according to suppliers now amounts to more than 3.2 billion kuna. The HZZO obligation totals about 4 billion kuna. Although it was said that the clear financial situation would change significantly. Now it's about the rule of law. I'm going back to those seven laws and I'm going back to my obligation under those July 2003 laws and all the regulations that were to be passed to implement these laws. I repeat, the laws have come into the drawer, the rules have never seen the light of day, and that's not good. That's not good. And now you're wondering why we dared, how we could condemn ourselves to the basis of a public debate that you started in February of this year in a clear interpretation. If you didn't want to follow the laws then, why would you believe that a proposal that entered the public debate would be an important behavior of your conduct? Is it not the task of telling the opposition that we are dissatisfied, to say that we are following you and to say that something is wrong about the dynamics you promised? There were talks about hospitals, there were talks about investments, there were talks about stopping large investments in health facilities, so I'd skip that part here. Perhaps with only one sentence to go back to what you, Mr. Minister, said two hours ago that you started reforming in the '90s, that this was a strategy that should be completely out of the text of that reform. It can't be. I repeat, the strategy is a framework. Reform must take place within that framework. So this is about construction, without a building permit that we're working on right now. I can say that. The only measures the government has taken over the past two and a half years have been the introduction of administrative fees, see all of our agendas, see, abolishing funeral and travel costs. We're returning these travel expenses now, or we're in the process of returning. That's all we did. We suggest these six conclusions. Clearly, we are dissatisfied with the fact that we waited for the full five months for our Health Insurance Act to come on the agenda today. We are even more dissatisfied that he entered a package of 8 laws and thus is not seen from a clear forest. I'm also absolutely dissatisfied with the fact that the interpretation comes here at 10:00 p.m. when we're all tired, when no reporter is following what we're saying, which is not good. It is not good for parliamentaryism in Croatia. It's not good. But the fact that the interpretation came on the agenda at 21 o'clock means that colleagues and colleagues are arguments on our side, and that on your side is the Regulation on the work of the Croatian Parliament. However, we still want to thank you for patiently waiting for us to get a chance to say what we should have said, about this interpretation and we think that this is very correct on your part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63843	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Proposer, final review, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63844	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Despite the surprise in the assembly, I'll give you my final word. Mr. Minister, you have no clear intention of our interpretation. I explained in the introduction that it was launched on March 2nd this year, so there were some technical problems. Not March 17th, not March 23rd, March 2nd. However, if you had carefully read the proposal for the conclusions we offer with the interpretation then you would have seen that we had no political intentions, but absolutely none. Because part of the proposed conclusions was proposed by the government in its draft laws today. Let's get this straight. In June of last year, we made a proposal for a conclusion assessing that something was wrong in the health care system, which the Parliament would call on the government to give a report on the state of health and what it intends to do. The proposal for a conclusion waited nine months to come to the agenda and discuss it. ... My mom. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague... It's my mom's fault for that for sure, or my late grandmother. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the proposals for conclusions that we gave the government the chance to call on them to come alone with their analysis failed and we came to an interpretation. And what did we want? The first proposal for a conclusion is required by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to produce a complete plan of capital investments for construction, upgrade and modernisation of the hospital system in the Republic of Croatia within 60 days, what will we do in the hospital system for the next 4, 5, 6 or 8 years in capital investments? Capital investment plan. And in this bill, the government refuses to finance capital investments in county hospitals. And it's true, and that's the last time my colleague Hebrang called me that law was passed during the former government. But, Rachanov. But those who made that mistake confessed and tried to correct it. And propose amendments to the laws that this Parliament has rejected, based on the opinion of this Government, and we have proposed that this provision of the law be changed, so that the state has an obligation to capital investment and to the county hospitals, not only in the field of state care, but in the system of the basic network. So if they have sinned, because yours is smaller because you have repeated it? No, it's the same. Same. The second proposal for a conclusion is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer within 30 days to the Croatian Parliament a bill that will abolish a provision that increases the distance of the medical institutions for the treatment in which the travellers pay the price. You're proposing 40 kilometers, here. One of our proposals for conclusions was already proposed by the Government in its combination. Is this politics? It's not. Third, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to refer within 30 days to the Croatian Assembly a bill that will abolish the mandatory payment of the administrative fee in primary health care. The government stays on a slightly modified model compared to the one so far. The problem of returning to citizens who have the right to abstain under social regulations has been addressed by a regulation through the social system, not health care. At increased costs, of course. We offered a cheaper solution. The government doesn't accept that, but it modifies. Fourthly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to adopt single criteria within 90 days by establishing the budgets of all hospital institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Is there a need for a unique criterion? Well, the minister said there was. To finally have to bring in the unique criteria by which we will finance, to give money to hospital institutions. ... So they'll be necessary sooner or later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not now because that's what we're proposing. But if the Minister of Health says we have to bring them in and list a few elements of those criteria, have we made a mistake in suggesting that we bring them in? Fifthly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that the cost of staff in hospital institutions settles outside the budget of hospital institutions. We've also proposed a model that's valid in protest for health care. Why did those who arrived in 2001 not agree to pay as part of the budget, the limit, the school. Because they knew they were signing a national collective agreement and had the most direct impact on the expenditures of these institutions. In health care, there are also salaries that no one but the signator of a collective contract can influence. And since one of my questions was answered by the minister not to give up on the national collective agreement, I accepted it as an attitude that may even be good because otherwise they might have too many regional differences. But if we stay on a national collective contract, why doesn't he pay his employees out of the treasury like you do in the open? Why can it work for all primary and secondary schools and not hospitals? Well, then let's go look for the responsibility of the director of the board of directors, the expenditure side. Energy, food, sanitary material, medicines, consumables, but the paid ones are not affected at all. Sooner or later, you'll have to do it. It'll have to be done because it won't last, it won't last any different. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to adopt, within 90 days, unique criteria for the specialisation of doctors under which the costs of specialisation will be settled outside the budget of hospital institutions. Why? Why do we have an extra doctor in Zagreb and in remote places a shortage? Why don't all hospitals have the proper structure of specialists? Because everyone sending a man to a specialization is burdening the hospital's budget. Because the hospital has to provide these funds and then damages, but it is not decided by the director of the hospital or the board of directors or the board of directors who will be sent to what specialization it is that the health minister has to approve the specialisation. So if this is so that the state determines who will be able to send someone to which specialization, and we want to have equally quality health care in all parts of Croatia, why are gynecologists and pediatricians missing in Međimurje? ... Well, that's Franz Joseph's fault, isn't it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, that's exactly what this is all about, and we're proposing that we don't stay in Zagreb, but to go back to his hospital because they don't have to go back to the current system. So the six proposals of the conclusions that we have made in today's performances, I have said to some of them that they will have to be made. Now I'm sure, I'm convinced the Ministers that they understood that this wasn't a political game. ... Because it was the only way to challenge the debate and get your answers, because you replied to the proposal for conclusions that they were not to be discussed at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you had responded to the suggestion of conclusions properly and offered all these arguments, there might be no Interpol. And I'll finish the next one. Children's books, children's health books. In 99, we allocated the first funds from the county budget for it, then UNICEF helped co-finance the project and each year the county of between 10 and 15 thousand kunas gave it to each child in the maternity ward to receive its own booklet. It's nothing new today, I'm thinking about what we're talking about. ... Great. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But no one said that in Croatia there was and that it worked somewhere. Information on primary protection and hospital services. I don't know how, but the issue of informing primary protection under some national programmes began in 2002. Hospital 2002. Check the data. ... I said in some. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So these projects aren't entirely new, they might be run differently, maybe all the states will finance. But what about those hospital owners who invested in informing their hospitals? He's gonna get the money? And it'll fit in. I thought you'd reward them so you could raise the funds a little bit and see how the good lords pass through who invest in their institutions eventually get rewarded. Maybe if not with a new technique maybe new software... I also spoke of this irregularity to punish those who invested, not 3.3% of their budget, but 10. The government thinks, the minister reiterated that the Interpol should be rejected and most will reject it. But be assured that of these six proposed conclusions four will have to be carried out. Four of you will have to execute, because the minister said you should make them. Maybe they seemed too short-term, if it was written the government's testimony, we would have extended it to 90, 180 days and don't consider it all politics. This morning you invited us not to politicise on these serious issues, not to compete politically. We've been acting like one. But when it comes to this, we don't understand why it's written and filed. Then this is a political game. There's a possibility we can repeat that every three months. So you'd like to pray to the future Mr. Minister when we're giving it a chance to open the debate with the conclusions and let the debate try to read the proposals more carefully, try to see that there are no evil intentions in the search for government data on the state of the health system. As for capital investments, does Croatia need a plan of capital investment in hospital systems? No, the government says it's not. So before each election, we'll open two, three new construction sites or sign contracts, or we'll still make a plan with these modest funds at 570 million if I'm not wrong and rationalize spending with or without the World Bank, anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63845	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63846	Well, it's very difficult to correct and correct Mr. Lesar. I would correct his first quote and then it would all follow from that. He said when he came for the pay phone first that this side was not thrilled with his date for the pay phone. That's not true. I couldn't wait for you to come and start talking because I fit at 22 o'clock and 15 minutes of your cynicism in this house and it's not true that we didn't want to listen to you. We wanted to listen to you and we enjoyed your way of putting it out. And now you're clapping for yourself. Great.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63847	The second correction by Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63848	Thank you very much, President. I'll fix only two things that my colleague Lesar said, that specializations are actually determined by the minister and that the hospital has nothing to do with it. That's not true. The hospital itself makes a plan, she suggests and the minister only approves on the basis of the plan. And another thing you said that health information started in 2001. That's incorrect. The information in the health system began in 92nd and at the first congress of Croatian hospitals we referred to it was 95. So in 2001, everything that was done was rejected and it started out as if nothing had happened. And that's why we're at the beginning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-04-10-0.u63849	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. And after that, the vote, then the debate on the proposal to show no confidence to Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. The session was interrupted at 22.18 hours. Interpreting about work, we're not going to do anything again. The fact that some are very caring and careful about voting again is very much so. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of health. In accordance with the government's proposal, I am voting for the next conclusion. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of health is rejected. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 69 votes for, 4 abstentions, 28 against. With that majority, a conclusion was reached on the refusal of the mentioned impellation.
