ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77677	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Until this proposal for a Voluntary Law, there was no legal regulation of volunteer status, which in practice made volunteering significantly difficult. Unlike volunteer work regulated by the Labour Act in this law, volunteering is mentioned. Volunteering as a voluntary and free work for the common good. The law regulates the basic terms relating to: volunteering, basic principles of volunteering, conditions of volunteering, the rights and duties of volunteers, and the organisers of volunteering, the terms and conditions of conclusion of a volunteering contract, the adoption of an ethical code of volunteers, the issue of a certificate of volunteering and supervision of the execution of this law. The adoption of this law is important because it ensures legal protection and regulation of the rights and obligations of all entities involved in volunteering and thus enables volunteering in accordance with the principles and regulations of the European Union. The law defines the competent authorities, the family ministry, the defenders, intergenerational solidarity and the National Committee for Volunteering Development to be formed as an advisory body of the Government, which is obliged to propose encouraging measures for the development of volunteering and a system of convenience and benefits for volunteers. This law is the basis, a framework that regulates everything that already exists as a positive practice of volunteering in Croatia, followed by implementing regulations that would lead to new positive shifts and create a favourable volunteering environment. Finally, I should also say that this Proposal for a Law on Volunteering was attended by interested associations and that, of course, the budget provided funds for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77678	Thank you. The committees? For the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the respected representative, the chairman of the board, Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77679	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 68th session held on 15 November 2006 discussed the draft law on volunteering submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 13 October 2006 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the draft laws, in particular those relating to compliance with European Union standards. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: The draft Voluntary Law is being adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77680	Thank you. The other committees? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77681	Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Let me first of all, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Social Democratic Party and in my personal name thank all volunteers for all the good they have done for all individuals and citizens of our country and in general for all people, and especially for the development and contribution to the development of our social and state community. Namely, we should remind ourselves, even though we've never had a Voluntary Law before. That volunteering and humanitarian work has been extremely developed in the Republic of Croatia, not only because of the troubles and evil that they were forced through aggression against the Republic of Croatia but also through the history of these spaces, there has always been a lot of volunteer work aimed at helping and helping those in need. We at the SDP Representatives' Club certainly support the idea and that this area of social work and social relations is regulated by us. And in this respect, surely we will support this bill in our first reading. However, we also believe that some of these issues that are provided for here from several aspects should be further considered, possibly corrected, repaired, completed, and perhaps more specifically arranged and completely new introduced into the law itself. So allow a few things immediately of principle nature that should be primarily enlightened. The question arises whether the Voluntary Law should actually regulate that volunteering which is regulated as humanitarian work by special laws or lex specialis when it comes to these affairs. Here first of all I mean the work of caritative institutions, then the Croatian Red Cross, but of course there are volunteer firefighters then there is the Mountain Rescue Service and so on. What's this about? For example, Article 4(4) states, paragraph 3 is that this law does not apply to the provision of services and activities which are of a nature which are not based on a volunteering agreement concluded with the principle provided for in this law. In paragraph 4, it is then mentioned, for example, which would be, if they were voluntary firefighters, voluntary blood donors, civilian service handbooks, and other duties and in such a manner as to be regulated by a special law. I guess there's an important fact here. Volunteers in these organizations that are regulated by special or lex specialis law are actually members of these associations and there is no point in, for example, in firemen, in the Mountain Rescue Service, at the Red Cross you must normally with each volunteer who is a member of the association and who has accepted the proposition and way of working of these organizations to sign a volunteering agreement. The second thing is that, in our opinion, this law should indicate that it applies to those questions about volunteering and to these associations that are not particularly resolved by their law. Therefore, we believe that the general clause should be asked differently, and in this context it should be taken into account on extremely important issues. Why? In fact, if this provision were to remain this way, then we would have to take care of the fact that it significantly increases the costs of the work of these associations and for which they objectively do not have the resources. Or rather, all the funds as humanitarian associations that collect primarily use purposely to help those in need in the Republic of Croatia and beyond. And in such a situation, it is actually very important to consider this issue and, in particular, if there is an additional fact that practically every single volunteering agreement does not just involve compensation for material costs, journals, etc. those who are volunteers rather than practically must be provided with suffering and everything else which significantly increases such a situation or prices of volunteering on the one hand, and of course these associations have actually general insurance which is much more favourable for them and their members. That is why we propose that this issue be settled differently, and in this context I have already put forward a proposal. Another thing that should be taken care of. So, to count all the laws that regulate associations that are lex specialis, for example here I also mentioned the Mountain Rescue Service which has not been touched at all. But there are more of them. The second thing that should be taken into account in this context. We need to know the structure of the associations. For example, you cannot indicate here that this law will not apply to voluntary donors of blood and there is no voluntary donor of blood that is not a member of the Croatian Red Cross because it itself acts when it becomes a donor of blood becomes a member of the Croatian Red Cross. Therefore, in such things it is exceptional, because the Croatian Red Cross prepares, teaches, organizes, motivates, etc. Voluntary blood donors for an extremely important function that is important in the Republic of Croatia not only in this community but in every social community to achieve noble goals here in a specific case of saving human lives and bodies. Another principled remark could actually be said, it could be said that it is the composition of the law itself because it has in some way started from some principles, basic principles of volunteering, then questions of persons and age who are volunteers etc. And in this situation, one more important question should be mentioned, that for educational reasons many humanitarian associations have members who are much younger than 15 years of age and are relatively involved in volunteering and acting as volunteers in performing certain small tasks in the pursuit of socially useful and necessary jobs to meet the needs of any individual, whether the social community. For example, take the famous Red Cross action selling stamps made by children in a school that collects, among other things, resources to help the most socially vulnerable in the Republic of Croatia, for which unfortunately, when collecting the Red Cross, all those funds and purchases and packages that give to people who have fewer incomes than 4 hundred kuna, for example, must pay VAT monthly. Now, you see, that's what the state doesn't have enough hearing for some of the humanitarian and volunteer actions that are extremely important and should be considered. And this law in that segment should also consider how the state can facilitate the work of volunteers not only from the point of view of organisers but above all those who are volunteers and especially volunteers who are in humanitarian associations. Why am I stressing this in particular? Because we want to say that in exceptional cases and humanitarian organisations other than their members who are by nature things and volunteers, and especially in so-called. technical and other teams that are assisted in the elemental disasters of not knowing how to clear the ruins, save endangered persons and lives, protect environmental values so that they can engage ad hoc and other citizens of the country who should then and to whom the Voluntary Act should then be applied in general. The third thing we would particularly like to point out is the question that a whole series of provisions that are to be resolved are actually made so that actions are described in their essence, not really legal norms, but norms that would previously look like a programme or programme declaration related to individual actions, and in this respect should be taken into account in particular. The fourth thing that should be taken into account is that a whole series of regulations, prescribed norms should practically be placed in a position to have or to fine themselves in several articles. For example, you cannot indicate the situation of the rights and obligations of volunteers, and then you have a absence of volunteering and before that you talk about rights. Therefore, that should be settled. Or, you have a volunteering contract, so now the article of one begins, and then the second volunteer or volunteer... which would cause direct immediate damage and then after that, the organiser of the volunteering may terminate the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be a special article, not all in the same article. Why? Because it's extremely important to actually see what happens and under what conditions. Now, let me except for these still no-technical remarks which are also related to Article 26, here I have mentioned article 22, but also can be taken 26 in relation to the 29. namely where it is said that the organizer in the 22nd volunteering is obliged to submit an annual report to the Ministry and here you have article 29. where the administrative supervision and then the supervision of the implementation of this law, etc. He's doing the ministry. Well, if he's doing all this, then it's pretty clear that he's going to be able to get an opinion and everything. This is not particularly to be indicated, nor to be guided, nor to be taken into consideration. And now allow a few more individual remarks, which should, in particular, be guided by, may make sure that he agrees eventually. For example, Article 17 states that the authorities responsible for the application of this Act are central authorities of the state administration in which intergenerational solidarity lies. Be careful first of all, the ministries and authorities of the state administration do not provide for the application but enforce the laws. So it's not a termological difference, it's a material difference. It is important here to indicate that they implement the laws and what the Ministry must do in particular as part of law enforcement. But what it says here isn't the obligation or the right of the Ministry. It is said here: "It ensures the implementation of this law... And now you see it up there saying "application," and here it says "implementation" of the laws and other regulations that come under this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not a norm, it's not a norm that's bound by the law itself. It is a paraphrased constitutional norm that speaks of law enforcement, and in this respect it is not true that it will implement only the norms resulting from this law because it writes in a capital letter of the Law but will be implemented by all the laws relating to the problem of volunteering and humanitarian work being conducted in that segment. This is therefore to be agreed and in this respect should be kept in mind. Article 18 shall be completed on the whole page. And now he first, in the first part, is talking about the National Committee. After fulfilling its tasks, the Committee shall... He's working with the government's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now the relationship with him first with the organizer and then with the government. Then you have: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints members of the Committee", the next fourth paragraph. So then "Members and members of the Committee shall be appointed to the deadline, set the criteria for the selection, so the Committee shall not apply the Rules of Procedure, so the members of the Committee should be all the specific, special articles to be arranged and to which they should be... Work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we actually need to know what these bodies are doing, in what relationship are they in, and especially how they relate to volunteers and, of course, to volunteers themselves? Or, for example, take article 21 where it is said that the conclusion of a volunteering contract, a written form... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You know, when you take article 6, paragraphs 3 and 4, you suddenly see that it's actually religious communities, public institutions, tourist communities, nonprofits... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the other non-profit legal person who organises volunteering in accordance with the provisions of this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now there are four state bodies and bodies in the area of local self-government units. And why does a contract actually apply to them and not to everyone else? Here we are actually going back to the one, the one I was talking about in relation to Article 4. In fact, the volunteering agreement does not have to be concluded by those associations which, by nature, things are regulated by a special law and which carry it out as an activity, their own activity and their own or public authority entrusted to them by the social community with their members. Except in cases where they do not engage persons who are not members of those associations. And in all other cases, contracts must actually be concluded when it comes to mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities between organisers and volunteers and, of course, the performance of the task involved. The second question is when it comes to "ad hoc" activity, which is related to a less important issue. It may then be based on an oral contract but should be indicated when, this is a special case. When it comes to exceptional, exceptional circumstances of higher power, a whole number of citizens and persons as volunteers who provide certain services and assistance should be involved and a specific article should now be developed to conclude a post-festum volunteering contract which should develop certain rights that stemmed from potentially possible... In Article 22, I've already mentioned, of course, I'd just like to beg Mr. President, if I may, about the punishment of just one sentence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary to comply with the criminal provisions. It is impossible to predict, among other things, that the criminal punishment of 50 to 250 thousand kunas will punish the organizer of volunteering for some of the failures that are actually formal-legal. It should therefore be taken into account in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77682	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77683	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, I agree with the majority and I have one correction to the incorrect quote of the esteemed colleague Arlovic when he said speaking of special circumstances means what our laws predict. Whether it's a elemental accident or some other, uh, I don't know if he meant it, and if he didn't mean it then it's not, people are engaged as volunteers, but they're engaged as bonds or civil protection or labour obligations, there's a duty to participate in the protection and rescue that wouldn't belong to the Voluntary Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77684	Yeah. For the IDS Club, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77685	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry. The IDS Club certainly welcomes the adoption of the Voluntary Law, and this matter needs to be arranged even though volunteering has worked for us so far. Volunteering is an important segment of action in society. We see that in countries where society develops and cultivates volunteering there are also results. The best examples are in Great Britain and Germany where the tradition of volunteering is very high. Volunteers are legally well protected there. In 1964, a Law promoting voluntary social work was passed in Germany. I can also confirm that with my personal experience. I was this year in Rostock where a very, very famous regatta of old sailboats and a fair is held in northern Germany where 2 million tourists pass in a week and where the entire fair is carried out by volunteers on their backs. If we start from the fact that in Great Britain, the tradition of volunteering is very high with good results, then I can quite say that this may be one bad copy of the rigid Anglo-Saxon version of the law that I think may not be suitable for the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has its experience to develop and adapt to a wider social context. Of course, a positive climate needs to be created in the development of consciousness. You have to teach your kids to be socially useful. That each member of a community must contribute to the development of society through a form of volunteering. Therefore, more attention should certainly be paid to education. However, the IDS Club notes certain articles and some proposals that the applicant should certainly take into account by second reading. We disagree that there is centralization in this law. And one form of decentralisation would certainly be to form volunteer centres at the city level where volunteers would be enrolled and registered by profession, education, or what they would like to volunteer. And at the same time, you'd know what kind of frames he's got. So the volunteer center would then know what, what volunteers are interested in. Second, through the Act on the Action of the National Voluntary Development Committee, they provided funds for travel and other material costs. And as for volunteers themselves, we know that they are not paid for their work, that they do not receive compensation or fees, but we believe that they should be paid material costs, i.e. the costs that volunteers have in their volunteering, e.g. covering the costs of a bus ticket or train ticket, because those costs should not fall on the burden of volunteers themselves. Because it's certainly enough that they're giving themselves, their effort and their pawnage, not that they still have to finance their volunteering. The second proposal of our club to be included in the law is that it would certainly be positive for volunteers to have some kind of identification book, an identification book where they or the organization could record their volunteer work. Because I don't think we've had enough information as to what kind of personnel we're dealing with. As regards Article 10, we believe that a provision that defines social and non-profit entrepreneurship should be incorporated, and that income is not considered as a profit but a means of co-financing, i.e. simply financing various programmes. In Article 18, the process of appointing members of the National Committee on Volunteerism by the Government, we believe that it is not good for them to be appointed, i.e. in a direct way of choosing, but through a transparent process and proposing by involved social participants throughout the process, is similar to the selection of members for the Civil Society Development Council. Article 14 should regulate tax exemptions on those costs for volunteers or volunteers, i.e. to be recognised as a material cost of business. And in order to get as many young people involved in volunteering as possible, we in the IDS propose a provision that volunteers receive some benefits in the form of some additional ones, for example. points for enrollment in our formal education system. And to conclude, here, we will support this proposal in the first reading. I hope the Proposer adopts the proposals put forward here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77686	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77687	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, Mrs. Piranovic. Indeed, this legislative proposal, which is ahead of us, will also be welcomed in the first place because it was expected to finally get a volunteer legal framework. In fact, there was no clear legal framework in the Republic of Croatia so far which is a systematic matter of volunteering, but individual volunteer activities have been governed by a series of separate laws, such as the Fire Department, the Croatian Red Cross Act and others. Therefore, this occasion should also be repeated exactly and thanked by volunteers who, with great denial, with love and one uncertainty, have performed a socially beneficial job in every segment of our Croatian society. I am particularly pleased that the introduction of this law highlights the illustration of how certain countries in Europe have solved this by finally taking one way to draft the laws that some other countries have solved that are similar to us, but of course not literally copying certain provisions, but rewriting them to our Croatian society. It is important to highlight indeed what the United Kingdom or Germany did in '64, as later all other European countries did in Spain, Portugal, Brazil, France and what is amazing that the United States of America did so only in '97. 2001, respectively. It should also be pointed out that there is a significant difference between the situation in practice where volunteering exists in a normative state where volunteering is not regulated legally but is tolerated in practice. This proposal for a law in one I would say an ediscreet way is increasingly considering the roles of units of local and regional self-government precisely in the area in which the authorities responsible for the application of this law are designated. I believe that this will be a rule and that it will not be possible to avoid including the advantage of units of local and regional self-government in every segment not only of this law but also of another to make one sure step of decentralisation and raising the responsibilities of municipalities, cities and counties legally defined. In particular, this is highlighted in Article 18(4) where it is said that, among other things, of the three independent experts involved in volunteering and civil society development, two will be appointed on the proposal of organisation, civil society organisations, one on the proposal of units, bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. We encourage the promoter to develop in further steps a truly important role that units of local and regional self-government also play in this segment of Croatian legislation. It is important to highlight exactly the nomotechnical approach which, with one certainty, logic and provisions, has put very good solid legal frameworks in this Voluntary Law, because basic concepts of which we have only so far been able to understand in practice what it is. That these really are the basic principles of volunteering, which are the conditions of volunteering, the rights and duties of volunteers and the organisers of volunteering, which are the conditions of conclusion of a volunteering contract, the subsidiary application of the Law on Mandatory Relations, of course the adoption of an ethical code as well as other associations have an example of a code of attorney ethics, an example of medical ethics, that it can finally be very easy and reliable to verify whether this part of volunteering has all those assumptions in order to be able to volunteer easily and safely. Of course, the important difference that is broken down and done here is what it is, what kind of volunteering is when it volunteers, for example, a judicial listener in court when it is not paid by the basis of the Labour Act and this way of volunteering that this law also provides. The significant difference is very detailed so that there is no doubt in the application of this regulation. The principle of prohibiting discrimination against volunteers and volunteering users, in particular the protection of volunteering users and the principle of banning and exploiting volunteers, should not occur and volunteers should not be used for the purpose of obtaining or increasing profits. Finally, it should be put first that not all work is really for the sake of reward, but that there is indeed a need for a man when he can, and that helping others has really one legal framework so that he does not fall into one delusion of volunteer relations among the important segments of our society. The principle and protection of minor volunteers have been touched. It has been pointed out that they can deal with activities that are appropriate to their age, physical, psychological preparation, which their legal advocates speak of, at which the degree of moral development is finally and morally incorporated into this law, which must be highlighted so far and in some other laws where it should have been introduced, since it is nevertheless usually the right to be entrenched and morally incorporated into these important laws. It is also pointed out in Article 12 that, within the meaning of this law, a person under 15 should not volunteer, and that is only for the reason that such a contract can be concluded on volunteering and volunteering only with the written consent of a legal representative, father or mother, that is, who takes care of that minor. An important principle, not less important than these others, is the principle of volunteering freeness, because it cannot be conditioned by any fulfillment of any other act, by countering to give a reward for this work done specifically in view of the fact that such a type of volunteering cannot acquire property, cash reward and benefits. The property has also been dismembered, and the cash prize and benefits in the broadest sense of the word so that there are fewer doubts in the interpretation. Nomotechnically, precisely, an orderly bill which, given that this is the first reading, I believe will also benefit from the suggestions spoken in the debates of clubs, but also from individual discussions so that speed tensions can be passed by a real good basic law. The principle of volunteering and solidarity to do so freely, that there is no reason not to apply the principle of transnationality of volunteering in our legislation, in particular the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who volunteer in other countries, all the rights and obligations provided for in this law and the international obligations and vice versa, foreigners and persons recognised as asylum seekers can volunteer in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of this law and also the Law on Asylum, the Law on Foreigners, finally so that the legal system is filled with each segment. Of course, what is always important is what authorities are responsible for the application of the law, what are the possibilities of administrative oversight, inspection control, this is important for a particular reason, because we often know that we have excellent legal, law, legal provisions and that there are no important levers to apply and enforce these laws, therefore Article 29 clearly states that administrative oversight of the application of this law and the regulations adopted under this law is carried out by the relevant ministry and should have one logic from the ministry and on the lower, how to work it out. However, it is not left to this end, it is said, the inspection of the implementation of this law and the regulations adopted under this law by individual acts, conditions and manner of work of supervised legal and natural persons carry out inspections by the central authority of the state administration... appropriateness and in accordance with specific regulations. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, in view of the importance of this law, it should not wait for the implementing provisions which are also the subject of the publication of the truth for the purposes of this Act, very precisely, where it states that within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law, the members of the Committee shall be appointed within three months of having been convened by the Committee at the first session, so as to give sufficient time to take this seriously, to agree that any further deadlines relating to this act may be adopted within two months of the date of entry into force of this law and, of course, what should be done at the first session, the Rules of Procedure of Procedure of the work and that that Regulation, as already stated in Article 26 shall be adopted within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. It is necessary to adopt, as soon as possible, the implementing provisions, as soon as possible, the administrative bodies and bodies responsible for the application of this Act, in order to be safe, we have passed one law which is necessary. So far, there has been no legal framework for volunteering, but it needs to be done as the time in which we live, the 21st century. I therefore point out once again the importance of this proposal and the commendation of those who have done what is necessary with sufficient effort and study of the law of comparison. Modern, secure, logical and legal, i.e. the Constitution based on the bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77688	Thank you. A respected representative of Dragutin Lesar for the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77689	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this bill in its first reading, and in preparation for the debate we have also served several views produced by different organisations, associations and communities that have so far been involved in volunteering and promoting volunteer work in Croatia. The center for education and counselling "Sun" had one and a round table on the subject and about 5 messages were sent from that round table, 5 proposals both in Croatia and what should be done in terms of volunteer work. First, they believe that the issue of promoting volunteer work is of exceptional importance because only legal regulation creates a legal framework, but that in Croatia the problem is that this topic was not sufficiently present in promoting. Secondly, they believe it is necessary to build a base of volunteers, so interested citizens, and this will later prove to be extremely significant, as well as a base of companies, institutions, services and other bodies and organisations that are willing to engage and use volunteer work. Fourthly, that a volunteer contribution to the development of social responsibility should be developed from childhood, including volunteer actions at least twice a year in primary and secondary schools. Finally, a volunteer engagement would be introduced as the offered part of secondary and university education and would result in the individual’s voluntary contribution from the society being valued by additional loans, i.e. points that could be used, for example, through enrolments in the education system or in other ways. According to a survey by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in Croatia, only 5% of citizens in Croatia have so far been engaged in this kind of activity until the Ivo Pilar Institute reached about 10%. So somewhere between 5 and 10% of Croatian citizens have so far been involved in volunteer work in different forms or ways. Only comparisons work, in Europe, or America at the age of teens on average per young man's volunteering is about three and a half hours a week. In its 2001 recommendation, the Council of Europe also recommends that countries remove all legal barriers to the social activities of individuals, to ensure legal status of volunteers and to provide adequate social protection, in particular to stimulate volunteer work to vulnerable groups of citizens such as disabled, migrants, older and older people. The Council of Europe also points out that all parts of the government, therefore from the central state, local and regional self-government, must be financially supported by this type of activity. And I think that a large part of the proposed law is going in this direction, but there are some things that I think it would be good for the proposer to give the first reading to read again and look for solutions that will remove possible doubts, different interpretations of certain regulations, and especially in that part of the repairs of social evaluation, not to say rewarding these volunteers. Of course, under quotes because it's a material reward. Article 6 I think that there should be a clearer definition of the tasks a volunteer can carry out. For example, for the tourist community, state bodies and bodies units of local or regional self-government. In fact, these jobs should be related to non-profit projects since volunteering is understood as a duty or provision of services for the general good and community development. Therefore, the very definition of these transactions in the existing proposal for Article 6 can be interpreted differently and I believe that a slightly clearer formulation should be used. Article 11 speaks of minor citizens of Croatia who are involved in volunteering, especially if they go to such types of activities abroad where an escort of a legal representative or representative is required. Now, this word "accompaniment" can be interpreted as a physical escort. Therefore, if a legal representative had to be present physically with volunteers abroad and organisations, they would ask whether it would be good and to think about the possibility of adding, instead of accompanying a legal representative, the possibility of using an expression or an organizer of volunteering because a person abroad from Croatia could go to volunteer in the organization, for example, the Red Cross, the League of Scouts or some other organisations that are established and registered in Croatia as part of the NGOs and who are conducting part of their activities and abroad. And he says that it is not necessary and necessary for a young person 17 or 18 years old to be followed abroad by a parent so that he can volunteer abroad. And I think it would be a shift in good regulation in law. Article 12 speaks of persons under the age of 15 and that they are allowed to volunteer as part of educational institutions, social care institutions and legal persons performing educational and educational activities with the consent of the competent authority. This formulation, for example, makes it impossible for a person under the age of 15 to volunteer at the Red Cross because the Red Cross is none of what is stated. And just under 15 years in the primary school system and most of the activities can be carried out through, for example, the "Red Cross" and would suggest that this Article 12 will also be completed in such a way as to join those organisations here other than educational and social care and humanitarian activities. Article 18 regulates the establishment of the National Committee for Voluntary Development, however, I believe that the solution to its appointment is not good or clear that in the preparation and processing and designation of such a National Committee there may be a number of problems and here we propose that instead of appointing the Government go to a system of public calls in that part of the composition coming from the civil sector. Article 26 provides for the obligation to submit annual reports to volunteers. I am afraid that this regulation in Article 26 will create a new amount of administrative fillings of different questionnaires, forms and reports and that instead should go and use positive experiences of those countries that went to volunteer books or indices, books and volunteers are those who have the obligation to report to the National Committee on their activities, if necessary, but that owning such a volunteer card allows what I now propose to ensure that, in the regulations and laws that follow this peak of volunteer activities, volunteers are socially evaluated, under quotes "rewarded" bonuses and points and that society repays them by making a large part of their time devoted to volunteer work. And I end with the next proposal, the implementing rules under this law should be adopted within 3 months. Think again about the laws we introduce short deadlines, after 3 months we'll ask why something isn't done, then the government usually fits, we've set ourselves too short deadlines. Real 3 months is really too short, and I suggest you go on a second reading for at least 6 months so that we don't be in a situation where Parliament and the government break their laws that they've passed just because we know in advance that we're setting too short deadlines. So, rereading these provisions that I have cited and their repairs, I think the second reading of the law would be a better quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77690	Thank you. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77691	... Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social Liberal Party welcomes this Act. We believe that it was high time to move forward with the adoption of legislation which will also legally regulate volunteering activities. So far, the development of volunteering has been the most hampered by the lack of such legal regulation. We hope that this year, December 5th, which is usually the International Volunteer Day will be the last day without the Voluntary Law. Action for public well-being is insufficiently represented and elaborated in existing legislation. In Croatia, special laws regulate only certain volunteer activities such as fire, the "Red Cross" and the provision of humanitarian assistance. The civil society in Croatia unfortunately has a fragile tradition. We would probably have had a different transition if we had, say, a society in Croatia in the '70s, especially in the '70s, the 80s were stronger. During the beginning of the war period in Croatia, humanitarian and peace organisations were primarily developing, which certainly indicates the development of solidarity among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the development of volunteering activities has certainly contributed to the development of civil society which certainly represents the salt of any democracy. But I don't know how good that normative optimism is. It would be funny, though, to think that only the existence of the Voluntary Law will predominate and address problems related to this form of work. Unfortunately, people in Croatia will not volunteer more if the Voluntary Law is passed. They need first of all to be better informed and encouraged to volunteer and socially useful work and to build awareness of it already within the family and during schooling. The government should be referred to the value of volunteer work. A positive attitude towards volunteering has serious problems in... Just volunteering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today in Croatia, some surveys say that it volunteers less than 5% of citizens, some say 10, now it doesn't matter more or less, but certainly it is a small matter compared to more developed democratic countries. To me it remains precisely in memory during the war, probably like you many we have traveled across Europe and I must admit I was pleasantly surprised, but also ashamed when I saw that an average Dutchman who comes home at 5 o'clock leaves things and goes with you, going to collect help for at that time Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and really does it without any desire to be rewarded in any way other than being aware and because there is awareness that there are people who need this work and its help. It is therefore necessary to build a structure that will enable more involvement of all interested citizens in the various initiatives for the welfare of communities in which they live, and the number of volunteer initiatives and projects promoting volunteering, especially in local communities, are not at an enviable level. First of all, I think about working with children and young people, helping disabled people and people with disabilities, helping old and powerless and those with environmental, animal protection and so forth. Among people, it is thought that the solution to the difficulties and problems faced is solely for the work and decisions of people of high state institutions. This is the wrong perception that should certainly be changed and in exactly the right way to organise the fact that someone will engage his spare time and thus make a more significant social economic contribution and in his local environment in which he operates. I say through volunteering, citizens can spread the influence and ability of the civil society organisation. At the same time, volunteers have the opportunity to develop their own skills. The level of volunteering certainly depends on a number of factors such as the economic and political situation, the level of development of the third sector, the culture of volunteering and the labour market. The experience of European countries shows that for such examples the legal framework is more than important. One of the major problems of civil society in Croatia is that most organizations are related to the four largest cities, so... the system of authorities refutes unfortunately and civil society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Large differences in the standard of citizens between regions correspond to the level of civil society development in these regions. We believe that volunteering in state institutions without predominant traineeships would contribute to the demystification of policy and greater involvement of civil society in politics. In view of the fact that this law establishes relations of work in associations, it is necessary to prevent abuses that can be created by the activities of phantom or certain associations. Therefore, the legal status of the association must be fully clean. The data says that there are currently some 28 thousand registered associations in our midst. We think that those associations that have lost formal conditions of existence should be deleted from the register because then it can easily happen that volunteer work is being abused through one of the associations that have not worked for years, which have not kept their congregations or handed over final accounts and is practically not known who is responsible for those associations. I can only say that as a longtime citizen of the city of Osijek, I have just faced this problem that a large number of really are an association in the city that was registered there over 600, 700, that they were actually phantom and then it was simply, you should have been able to sign up, encourage programs and not just the label that some association exists in itself. Different institutions have different perceptions of volunteer activities. Voluntary activities include those which do not form a form of volunteer work, such as: traineeship or civil service of the military period. This first of all speaks of insufficient information about the concept of volunteering although it is generally said by the perception of volunteering in us positive. So you should think about this here is our proposal for a club, about introducing a new term for this form of volunteering, because by applying this law, we will get two completely different forms of volunteering. The one under the Labour Act who can choose persons who need a judicial or professional examination for their work, such as lawyers, doctors, pharmacists and the like and, volunteering on Saturdays by law, which is conducted for a whole other or general purpose. Having two legal institutes with one term is not a good solution. The very name of the law should undoubtedly speak of volunteering for general purposes, thus avoiding the possibility of confusion and abuse where employers in often under-informed trainees would invent volunteering or some kind of free trial work calling for this particular law. Therefore, the title itself should be such that it is clear to the layman that this is a specific type of volunteering for the benefit of the community and not for the benefit of the employer, although we must say that volunteering is possible in the profit sector, but is certainly not resolved through this law. Volunteering is indeed a voluntary investment of personal time, effort, knowledge and skills for the benefit of other services or for the general benefit that it stands for in Article 3 of this Act and the usefulness of such work is double for both volunteers and the community in which it works. You certainly need to protect underage volunteers. It is good that the law also regulates the award of those who are willing to volunteer because it represents a form of encouraging volunteering. We at the club believe that article 21, which states that the volunteering agreement can be concluded in both the oral and the written form is not precisely defined. We understand what this should mean in writing, but what kind of contract would be concluded only by oral agreement. This formulation is questionable because it considers it a prerequisite for misunderstanding and the possibility of abuse of volunteer work. What happens if the need arises, for example, to launch a legal dispute? There are some irregularities. The word of a volunteer, we fear, will most likely not be respected. But what is ultimately the most important club of MPs supports this draft law on volunteering with the comments we hope to make before the second reading will be considered and we hope and accepted. By passing this law, the Republic of Croatia will thus send a clear message that volunteering is socially recognised as an activity of special importance and interest to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77692	Thank you. For the HSS club, the esteemed representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77693	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We at the HSS Club will support the bill anyway. However, we would also like to consider some other options that are indirectly related to this law. In any case, we believe that volunteering within the meaning of this law is not considered to comply with specific obligations in accordance with court decisions and judgments. However, we could probably commit ourselves a little through this law because we have some of the illogical things that are happening to us in our civil society. First of all, I think of a fact where someone was convicted of voluntary work after, for example, a criminal offence. traffic accidents and these cases have been quite common lately as far as I've been informed, a third of the penalties relate to the obligation to do voluntary work somewhere in civil society but behind that we don't have an Implementing Regulation, so we can't implement it at all. And for those who, in that way, could directly become volunteers if they wanted to do so, there is no possibility because we do not have a sublegal act that would allow them to do so to a punished traffic participant after the verdict of the criminal judge. I think it's completely illogical and it should be intervened here and especially that there should be a link between the draft law on volunteering and these cases I'm talking about. Another example is serving a civilian deadline where I think it is possible to implement it through some form of volunteering but in case we regulate it differently. As far as I know, MORH has no regulated civil service within its rules of business, so those people who choose to do something else are left to themselves. They find a job, they do it as best they know and it would probably be logical and we would need to enable them to volunteer in accordance with their abilities and to give society the highest quality effect thanks to this decision they've decided to make. So we have several areas where we could further engage volunteering. We don't pay attention to them, and neither can we, because it's not regulated by law and we don't have the necessary regulations. One interesting area is also what happens at the Office of the Unemployed. I've often talked to these people who are waiting for work and who are receiving compensation and in some way "burning their consciences" that don't do anything and they'd like to volunteer, but there's no possibility either because we don't have that normized and we don't have a chance of involving an individual at all. Organizational structures don't exist for that. This law provides for its realization of 75 thousand kunas which in any case cannot be enough for such a proposal for a law on volunteering, especially if we want to talk a little bit about how I'm saying that and modify it, that we're looking for a different role of the state. States which should develop all normative bases for volunteering but which should also organise volunteering. I think that the role of the state is significant and therefore I stress that we try not only to establish a fund or a foundation for volunteering but also to enable them here, through the passing of the necessary amendments to the law but also to the ministries through the amendments to the rules where we should enable people who would really like to volunteer after traffic penalties, after deciding to go to civilian service of the military deadline, after receiving fees to the unemployment office to enable them to do so. I don't think there are any legal obstacles, I think there is a need for this, and in this way we will have an even better organised volunteering in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77694	Thank you. At 10.34, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's not here either. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77695	Thank you very much. Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It is evident that the volunteering system in the Republic of Croatia is not sufficiently developed. Volunteering is possible through NGOs and various humanitarian institutions, but there is no tradition or awareness of the needs of volunteering or legal regulation so far. The general perception of volunteering and volunteering is mostly positive, but the problem is in a different understanding of volunteering and the contradictions resulting from it, which points to insufficient information on the concept of volunteering. I therefore believe that this law should be a fundamental document on the basis of which volunteering activities will be promoted in our society especially among young people who would have a positive impact on the development of their personality in terms of sensitisation towards the needs of society as a whole, or those who need assistance from others. According to the results of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development survey carried out on the subject of volunteering published in December 2005, only 5% of Croatian citizens volunteer until more than half of the respondents even think about it. How active we are in this area speaks enough of the data obtained by the same research that the most common form of humanitarian activity of the Croatian public is still responding to humanitarian actions via telephone or donations in terms of things, material things. Croatian society marks its own anemia, the values of the socialist order have been abandoned and around all the liberal-democratic values have not yet been established a general social consensus so that citizens are not yet fully aware of what these are the new socially desirable values. It is rare to meet constantly hired volunteers in some social activities and activities. The work of volunteers mainly comes down to campaign engagements in some more prominent activities of society in the case of elemental disasters, war conditions, major sports events and the like. Since I come from the field of sports, I'd like to say that literally no sports event can be conducted without volunteering. Just to give two examples this year from Rijeka. The performances of the Adriatic slalom and the European Triathlon Championship mobilized each between 250 and 350 volunteers of different age structures. The atmosphere among volunteers was excellent and none of them were difficult from getting up at three now in the morning until all day long in the summer sun. Jumping in to help the neighbor was a normal thing and that's what stays as a lasting value. Each of these volunteers is willing to jump in where and when and how it should be, of course in accordance with their daily obligations, which is particularly relevant in the population of young people aged 15 to 20. Here I want to highlight the great interest of including in competition activities and children under the age of 15, so perhaps as an idea to prepare a final proposal for a second reading of this law to give them the opportunity to participate, clearly in the activities and tasks appropriate to their age and abilities. Let's just think of ball collectors in tennis or football who actually live months in advance for these events where they will play an important role for them. So far, volunteer work has been somewhat regulated under the Labour Act and the Law on Mandatory Relations, which, of course, does not meet the real needs of this sector where it is important to distinguish this possibility of unpaid professional training from volunteering within the meaning of this law. It is unrealistic to expect that the adoption of this law would motivate a greater number of people to volunteer, but the only thing that is certain is that it will ensure clarity about the role of volunteers themselves. However, it is important to make sure that too much formalism does not destroy the spirit of volunteering itself. Furthermore, this law should be the backbone of cooperation between state institutions and volunteers because such co-operation is needed primarily with a view to developing new initiatives, programmes and ways of financing the programme. It is positive that this law is important as a means of preventing volunteering for paid jobs and that someone put that money in their own pocket, so as to prevent the abuse of volunteering. Research by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development has shown that there is a need for permanent recruitment of volunteers, mostly in social institutions. There are few permanent volunteers involved in caring for older people, people with special needs, etc. A similar situation is, for example, in asylums for abandoned animals. The problem is that institutions that co-operate with volunteers recruit their volunteers mostly by personal contact while systematic recruitment of volunteers still does not exist. The question is, can this law help solve this problem? I hope that's really how it's gonna be. Finally, it is not enough to pass a law according to European Union rules and hope that volunteering in Croatia will suddenly rise to the level of the United Kingdom for example. More than this law will be required to adopt the rules that will really bring its provisions to life, and other measures and programmes that will support the development of volunteering, so I also support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77696	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77697	Well, here's a colleague who found out that the volunteers were a little older... when it comes to caring for older people or people with disabilities, and I really agree with that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also notice in my community that, in fact, most of these people are being taken over or through this system of help in the house that is being paid, that we should certainly develop volunteering. And here we have the information that 5 to 10% of the population has been employed. We should definitely work on making that number a lot bigger. To develop a simple culture of volunteering and, from the earliest age. And certainly it's good that this law still regulates some questions and gives actually one importance, the importance of volunteering, and I especially appreciate and respect volunteers of all kinds from the youngest to the oldest ones who really give their time voluntarily and without compensation and certainly need to distinguish volunteering here, this one that was particularly in health, for example, from this volunteering that they don't actually have, they have nothing in common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77698	A reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77699	Well, here I can actually agree with my colleague Lelic. Well, I have, in fact, also in my debate, pointed out that mainly with us, volunteer activity comes down to one campaign work and mainly to engagement in certain situations that arise in certain more prominent activities, and that indeed there is a great, great shortage and lack of volunteers in these social institutions, and perhaps this law can indeed be one, one, one driving force to and thus permanently recruit volunteers specifically in these institutions that have a daily need for their engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77700	Thank you. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77701	Thank you very much. Mr. President, we have come to talk about the Voluntary Law, which I must say at first, as well as what is said on behalf of the Club of our Croatian Democratic Community, and I am very pleased that this question has finally been raised in our discussions and in the adoption of such a law because the proposed law will ensure greater protection of volunteers and bring order into volunteer work. I want first of all to be one of those who will in a certain way encourage public opinion on the benefits of volunteering and increasing interest in volunteering, since the numbering indicators or percentages of those who, according to research in Croatia, are not in any way able to be the numerical state that will satisfy us. Volunteerism actually offers an alternative to the division of work and the limited definition of a person common in industrialised society and enables young people above all to work for the community while developing their skills and learning new applicable and in the market system of existing size. The participation of people in such volunteer projects encourages their later involvement in similar projects and the involvement of young people in local projects, above all, which contribute to the improvement of the community, raises awareness and strengthens their sense of responsibility for the community and the values of civil society. Very often people ask themselves why volunteering is necessary, and why volunteer at all? Well, I think in developed countries where it's already become common and where it's one standard of life I think people have answered those questions. Well, that's how I think people volunteer because they become aware of their work skills. Young people, and generally at later times, people gain work experience. What is particularly important to me is that they meet new people, they discern the values of society. They are directly strengthening certain initiatives within society and, in some ways, actually through volunteering, they encourage and protect human rights. I think it's also an important fact about, speaking of volunteering and that it has to be said that volunteering helps other people. They help associations, help to survive and continue institutions to act on the welfare of the community in which they live. In one word, I think that what, with this debate and the adoption of this law, should finally encourage Croatia to realize that people who are doing volunteering feel good by doing something good and useful. And not only for themselves but also for their community without being guided solely by the goal of increasing personal, material benefits. I think that this law is annexed, for the first time this legal protection for volunteering has been ensured and it is good that this Law comes in that there is a significant difference in volunteer work which is regulated by the applicable Labour Act and which represents professional work and internship for the employer from this volunteering which is voluntary and free work for this general benefit. There is not a single society that can and has money to pay for every social action of a wider scale. Volunteer work is briefly desirable, necessary and present in all forms of social life from the organization of major sports competitions, activities in sports alliances, work on projects and programmes related to participation in socially beneficial activities. In that sense, certainly my support for this Law in first reading, and all possible remarks as well as certain improvements that have already been made during the debate today, I think we can make very correct corrections in this Law and finally pass a law that will be in favour of volunteers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77702	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77703	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the government, here we are today from the beginning of this debate and on behalf of the clubs and here is a colleague who is first now and colleague Perman debated heard that this law is really welcome because volunteering is an activity that is being carried out for the greater good. It's the most common help in the most difficult moments of a man's life. By volunteering, we still have such emotions for the loved ones in distress and society as a whole. As stated in the explanation of the proposal for this law, the Council of Europe's recommendation recommends that countries define volunteering at national level, stressing its educational aspects and significant for society. The Council of Europe has made a series of recommendations promoting transnational volunteering of young people from 18 to 25 years of age, which is very important in the development of young people and in the understanding of work and obligations towards society at all. With us organized volunteering is carried out through the work of humanitarian and voluntary associations within the most often religious, political, humanitarian voluntary organisations. Today we have heard the Red Cross and Caritas and the Fire Department and the Artists. The development of civil society in our midst, through the organisation of different associations, also comes from different volunteers, from educational, social, health care professionals who provide different forms of assistance. This is especially evident in associations dealing with the help of victims of violence, psychosocial assistance of children and young people, all forms of violence, the fight against addiction, etc. She played a major role in volunteering as a form of help in the Homeland War, and after the war, there were entire groups of volunteers who helped in the accommodation of exiled refugees. They were often logistics fighters on the battlefield, they were thousands of people who were unrecognizable, they weren't even visible sometimes, but at that time without them they really couldn't. Four volunteering studies have been conducted so far, according to the reasons in Croatia. It's visible from the data, we've already heard today, that the number of people volunteering is moving between 5 and 10%, which is certainly small. Volunteering is still recognized by us only as declarative and insufficiently as an activity of general good. However, the adoption of the 2001 Law on Associations increases the number of civil society associations. Of course, the number of associations that talk about it and people who work in associations who can contribute to the survival of these associations, which are involved in the work of these associations, are all mostly volunteers in most cases. We must certainly do a lot, all of us, to sensitize the public, and especially young people, we have heard this today, to join different humanitarian associations. Helping an old and powerless person. Because through this kind of help many problems can be solved in the middle of the system right in the welfare system, helping old people, helping the powerless, developing a network of volunteers can solve this problem. Not only financially, but he can get rid of himself more on a human basis. I think the passing of this law will settle a lot of questions. We've already heard from the idea of who might be a volunteer, who organizes volunteering, why he volunteers, but also about the user of volunteering. The possibility of volunteering under the age of 15, persons who are completely or partly deprived of their business skills, the principle of free volunteering, as well as the obligations of those who organise volunteering. What's important is what's being brought in, we've already heard today on behalf of the club a colleague of Peronja said that volunteering code, it's important to find out what kind of person that might be a volunteer. The adoption of this law may also solve the problem of volunteering of the Labour Act and prevent the actual abuse of that article in law 37. One important issue is the provision that younger than 18 years of age can volunteer, normally with certain restrictions. A particularly important positive effect in young people develops personality and encourages them to make a personal contribution, and humanitarian action is exactly that volunteering. With these forms of work, it should have been started, and that's where everyone agreed before me, in elementary school. We have an example in our neighbouring country, Slovenia. Slovenia has a long tradition of volunteering. Mutual assistance is part of their tradition. Organized volunteer work is the same through associations mostly similar to our Red Cross, Caritas, some state institutions. But it is interesting that Slovenia was introduced a form of volunteering into schools. And it's in elementary and high school. The best thing to do is in this particular case, a few colleagues today mentioned this sensitization of the public for this kind of help. High school kids are mandatory to some form of volunteering. In Slovenia it is considered a good practice in elementary school, but in high school it is an obligation. They volunteer for a week in the school year. So when you add up all the work they have to be like high school kids involved, they have one such obligation, it's over one week a year. I think it's mostly health and social security business. And that's exactly what I was talking about, helping older people. I think that in our programs, in our schools, we should come up with exactly this kind of volunteering among young people. I welcome the adoption of this law and welcome what the law provides, and it has and exists and the National Committee for Volunteering Development has been established, which certainly has a significant decision. He not only must be an advisory body that will work to promote volunteering. I think that body must also monitor the implementation of this law when it is passed. However, I think that all of us together and the schools and all the institutions continue to associate, and they mostly do at this point and we need to sensitize the public, we need to point out what good society brings volunteering as a form of work. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77704	Replica, a respected representative, vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77705	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to use this replica to look further at the two, three things that my colleague Roksandić has already mentioned. It is a matter of quality or which persons should be involved in volunteering. We have one fact that, let's just say, doesn't even take care of in the law. Among other political parties are also associations. Despite their members who may also be, and sometimes hire volunteers to perform a whole series of humanitarian and social benefits from not knowing how to help a person to provide assistance to an organization and community, the law did not regulate it at all. Second, the law excludes one part of a person if they have sinned against the law by criminal or criminal action they could not be volunteers. And we can't and we can't deny each other the experiences of some people like that. in communities in the fight against drug addiction not only but also alcohol, smoking, etc. where treated addicts are greatly benefiting not only from their volunteer work towards addicts but also from their experience to motivate these same addicts to come out of it. And thirdly, I fully agree with my colleague, Roksandić, that education for socially useful and individually useful work through volunteering is not really covered enough. I personally think that this should be introduced as an electoral object in the primary school until it should be prescribed by law that humanitarian special organisations that have great experience such as the Red Cross, such as the caritative... like mountain rescue services, scouts, etc. to open up to them the possibility that through the educational part they can deal with education of citizens and children, of course, for socially beneficial and voluntary work, and that in that part they can have the support of the social and local community, among other things by seizing out part of the funding of such educational work. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77706	Replication response. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77707	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's what my colleague Arlovic said, when I mentioned the code of conduct, I didn't think that we would rule out people like people who live in communes, who were cured or treated addicts, who, by their good work, showed precisely in the work of these communities that some humanitarian actions can be carried out. But when I mentioned the code of conduct, the code of volunteers, I was just thinking about behavior. You can have people who really misbehave especially in this help if I understand you well, old and powerless. So there really needs to be some code of conduct, and you've agreed with me that education or not just sensitizing the public but also education, and I'm trying to start raising future volunteers from, so maybe I'll say kindergarten. You know, kindergarten can be done a lot with children through some forms, through workshops to get used to helping others, let's say in trouble or help in any situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77708	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77709	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think some good hoot put this law on the agenda just this morning after yesterday's difficult day. The law should be a prototype for seeking a positive political atmosphere and consent in this House of Commons. I'd like to give you and the secretary of state compliments on the idea of passing a law like this. The only question is whether we treat it as a generic law because there is a whole series of laws that regulate this matter and how if it is understood as some generic law, it will be brought into line with other legislation on voluntary work, meaning on fire, the Croatian Red Cross, humanitarian aid and those provisions of the Labour Act that is tangled by this law. Something about the name of the law. It's not my idea. The other day, Professor Krapac at the Obor for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system prayed and appealed to try to find some kind of Croatian concept of volunteering. I think there could be talk about voluntary work or the law on volunteering, because this concept of volunteering is already present at the Fire Department and is rooted in Croatian tradition. It's the first complaint, little, tiny nature. Another objection because I consider it to be a very good law, but usually when it comes to such combinations of the law then one part of the national tradition is forgotten, and Croatia is one of the few countries that has an extremely rich, neglected and unarticulated volunteer tradition or a tradition of voluntary work for another man, for the community, for the common good. When Alexis Detokville came to America, he began to explore the wealth of his life there and was fascinated as a Frenchman with the preparedness of Americans who came from Europe to help their neighbor engage in various volunteer organizations that there are hundreds and different civil associations. This template produced the famous work of democracy in America. However, we in Croatia have several similar works. Fortis' travels through Dalmatia also reveal the wealth of this voluntary, voluntary work, but what is much more important for us, especially for HNS, is Bicanic's study of how the people work, how the people live. So you should see what is part of the useful Croatian past, reconstruct it and try to fit it into this law. Come on, I'll tell you, let's say I come from a traditional environment, it's not polite to speak a personal example, but I will mention it. When my father died to me I was 2.5 years old then the village met in a secret meeting and they decided that no one in the village would bake bread for their needs anymore but they let my mother bake bread for the whole village so that she could have bread every day so that she could survive the family. And from such a tradition based on values on one side of solidarity and on the other side on the values of gratitude should reconstruct this useful Croatian past. I will mention this volunteer that I have often talked about, this is Ruža Tomasic, a volunteer in the fight against addiction that has been recognised and finally launched as practically some kind of self-involvement volunteer, a social action. There are many such traditions in Croatia. Take action, they look totally silly from this perspective if they're viewed as an ideological concept. However, if seen as one concept of creating values of community, solidarity, socially active work, it will be very positive. There's a tradition of sports volunteering, clubwork, socializing. There's volunteering in other areas. There are certainly several negative examples that should also be regulated by this law. When it comes to professional work not to use volunteering institutions. Let's just say volunteering on the internship, on a doctor's appointment. So there are also opposite examples where volunteering is abused as an institution and then there is exploitation of professionals. You've got similar phenomena both in law enforcement or whatever they're called. So then there's a huge tradition of religious caritative volunteering, there's a reconnaissance, hunting, etc., etc. Volunteering should be regulated in different areas. And there's my little fear of possible red tape. There you predict a whole system of obligations to organized volunteers who would inform the ministries, write some reports. The people, volunteers are freaks, they work all day long, if you force them to write some bureaucratic paper, it can desperately dim them into it. Therefore, I would tell you all in all that it is true God’s happiness that this Law came today to this High House to create a positive atmosphere. I give you all the qualities, that is, all the compliments, and I'd like to think about it in that sense. And I will finally say that in Croatia social or social engagement generally falls. People are retreating to their homes, and there's something they should do. After... That I mentioned there was an American very interesting theorist named Putman, who wrote a talking study called "Disappearance of Civil America". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he noticed the exact opposite trend in America, that people are retreating, they don't want to volunteer, everything is professional, everything is charged, and in Croatia, in that sense, I support this idea, I have a positive personal experience. The World Health Organization has a very rich volunteer program, and when I lectured in my first year of study, all experienced professors know it, you never know if anything you say is going to bring in any good or good fruit. And then a long time ago I suggested at a seminar of my future doctors to report as volunteers. And after many years I heard from a little boy from, he was already a serious man in Switzerland, he and his wife heard that advice and they volunteered as volunteers, they worked as volunteers of the World Health Organization somewhere in Africa. That's where they gained a professional self-awareness, made a successful career. After many years, the man sent me a thank - you postcard. So, I personally will until the second reading some ideas try to put on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77710	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative, vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77711	Mr. President, dear colleague Letica. You motivated me into a replica with this very humanitarian aid. It is a very interesting question, and certainly it is necessary to create and open up space for as much humanitarian aid as possible not only through volunteers but also through humanitarian organisations that do so, so that it can obtain and allocate and share the social need. But in this context, this law needs to be brought into line with the legal system. It is inadmissible, among other things, to talk about humanitarian aid, and among other things on the agenda of this Act, we have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the foreign exchange system which says that the National Bank will prescribe special rules on humanitarian aid and its exit from the country, on the one hand. On the other hand, we have a situation, during the war and crisis areas in the Republic of Croatia, such a situation that, for example, the Croatian Red Cross has provided humanitarian aid of around 7 billion kunas of that time, which has helped the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this humanitarian aid came from both the country and the country. But what happened after that, we humanitarian aid when we introduced the new Value Added Tax Act, and we're also destimulating humanists who want to give humanitarian aid and dimming the volunteer into giving it because, in fact, every value they give should be paid 22% of the value added tax. And third, it works, what it looks like. If you organise humanitarian aid for the most socially sensitive of the issue to share packages to the question of introducing a special phone that you collect money for humanitarian aid, you have to pay the VAT and then the question is actually where almost always more than one fifth of the funds are actually left to the state budget, which is intended to address the socially most sensitive issues of people in need. It simply cannot be and we must open in this segment through this Law and through the debate on this Law the need to coordinate in fact and activities within the legal system and social order where the social order through the legal mechanism should stimulate humanitarian work, it should stimulate volunteers, it should stimulate social cohesion and social responsibility and social solidarity, and not detimise as unfortunately as we have certain legal norms. And in that respect, thank you for opening that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77712	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77713	I'd like to thank my colleague Arlovic. When I listen to him, I'm always impressed and I see that there's not enough space in the SDP to contribute to their great qualities. I was actually at the beginning of a principle agreement with what he said. I said that there is, if this is treated as a generic law, that, colleague Arlovic, we should align the entire system of legislation. Thank you very much for reminding me of the voluntary huge contribution of foreign volunteers during the Homeland War, especially when it comes to humanitarian aid, but there is one great good solution in this Law where what was previously impossible is made possible. That young volunteers from other countries are now getting permits to work in Croatia so that they can volunteer. Otherwise, Croatia is a very attractive country and in the field of tourism, ecology, animal protection will be growing more and more volunteers, hopefully less and less of these types of GONG.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77714	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77715	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. It has already been pointed out here several times that volunteering in Croatia has so far been the most developed in the domain of civil society, that it has been legally said only through Article 37. The labour law and that volunteering really needed to be regulated by a special law, which we are now trying to do. But I would like to point out that it is primarily necessary to arrange it for the protection of volunteers from potential exploitation by those people where they volunteer. Besides a country whose role is dominant, of course, in this civil society, that is, the non-profit sector has long been a significant factor in the development of social policies in modern societies. This is particularly important for us, for countries in transition, it was recognised in Central European countries at the end of the 1980s when some new incentives came to revive the development of the civil society sector because it was thought and advocated precisely because it was thought that it would play an important role of the social process shockers that would be created by the introduction of the free market. And that's exactly the case with us these past few years. In this respect, non-profit organisations become a significant actor in the social policies of transition countries and contribute to the development of a concept of a combined social policy in which both the market and the state play an equal role, but also civil society as a necessary co-ordinator of all these processes. The significant role of non-profit organisations is precisely that they are most important in mobilising volunteers and thus actually make a significant contribution to the development of society. They develop the participation, interest and responsibility of citizens for the area of public needs settlement. By volunteering, they also develop their own potentials and personality, and they also support the local community and have a positive impact on the creation or modification of society as a whole. I would like to point out here, it also recognizes somewhere that although volunteering in Croatia is recognised, only in principle recognised as a positive activity, it deals only with a very small percentage of citizens, somewhere around 5% of citizens and there are various indicators that many civil society organisations are thanking their development solely and only volunteers. This Law well notes that volunteering is an activity that contributes to general well-being and should be the starting point for promoting volunteering. If we stay just for law-making, I don't think we're going anywhere. Therefore, the law should be a starting point and a whole programme should be developed to promote volunteering and further development of civil society because otherwise there will be an overall stagnation. Although the government recognises and shows that it recognises the value of volunteering, the importance of civil society and the interconnection I think it will take many more steps to prove that it is not just principled. One example would be that, for example, Minister Schucker would finally change the decision, i.e. the PDB rule when introduced, this was introduced by Minister Shuker as soon as he came to the mandate that all non-profit organisations, associations and institutions from the list of legal persons released from paying the PDB for goods and services paid by funds collected from foreign donations or, for example, the practice of taxing donations collected through phone calls for humanitarian organisations and so on, because as long as we pass laws, and these laws do not follow the concrete actions of our ministers, then I think that each of our pledges is truly without purpose. In fact, civil society, and I think that we can all agree, must not be another gas station to fill the state budget, and the government must take many more steps to prove that it really encourages the development of civil society. What has not been so highlighted in the debate here so far, and in the law of that, I don't think it is necessary at all, it is a matter of particularly volunteer work of young people. Namely, it is particularly important and the national programme of action for young people highlights the volunteer work of young people as extremely important for the acquisition of work experience and skills, i.e. demanding participation of young people in social development and affirmation of social solidarity. Through volunteering, young people are given the opportunity to direct professional interests, help others and improve certain activities in their community. I would just like to read point 80 of the National Programme of Action for Youth, which is both a commitment to this Parliament and the Government, and I ask that it be installed in some way in this Law. In fact, what we have adopted unanimously here in the Assembly says that a system of evaluation of volunteer work of young people needs to be established, that it is necessary to establish a system of evaluation of voluntary work on community well-being and skills acquired by volunteer work as a means of facilitating youth employment. In the current employment situation and when I speak to young people myself then I say we have acquired some skills, we have gained some knowledge and experience, but we do not have any way of doing so with future employers and very rarely even though more modern employers do so now recognize these qualities and skills acquired by volunteering. Of course and now continues the national programme this system includes developing criteria and educational programmes for institutions and other legal entities that can engage volunteers, legal regulation of volunteer work as a separate category, encouraging the award of social recognitions to responsible volunteers and developing mechanisms, documenting volunteer work experience as recommendations to employers. The law provides for voluntary certificates to be issued, but no solution has been made to what would be their purpose. I would like the law in this regard to be complemented especially by young people to be among other things and recommended to an employer in the employment of young people. There are some other things in the law that need to be solved, some have mentioned colleagues so far. For example, Article 9. The proposal for a law containing the principle of protection of users of volunteering should be aligned with Article 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A penal law that speaks of rehabilitated citizens, so to those people who have already served their sentences if they have received them and have passed all deadlines. It is not good that we prohibit them and this Law because they have a history of condemnation, according to our applicable laws they have the right to never mention it again and to deny any condemnation, therefore this Article 9 needs to be changed. Furthermore, Article 18 does not make it clear how many of the members the National Volunteering Development Board may have 15 or 20 of them, and given the smooth formulation of sentences in paragraph 4 of that article, there is something and, or I think it should stand only or that the situation should then be significantly clearer. Article 26(1) provides that the organiser of the volunteering is obliged to submit annual reports to the Ministry. I would just like to note that this provision could be detimulative to volunteers who organise volunteering for a short-term type or have only occasional volunteer actions. It would therefore be desirable to limit the way reports should be submitted by long-term volunteers, while other organisers and others who, for actions that receive financial support from the ministry, are the others involved in short-term or one-time... by volunteering such an obligation to avoid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that until the second reading, this law will experience certain changes that the idea promoted in the law and the principles promoted in the law will not only remain at this debate and debate only on this law, that it will follow, as some MPs before me have said, a set of measures and other regulations that would allow me to volunteer, and in the end I would like to point out that many people in Croatia are volunteering today and it seems fair to me, at least on the occasion of this debate, to mention my personal volunteer, Peter, who has helped me to prepare this debate with some of the issues, because we have volunteers here and here in the Croatian Assembly, they are not only in humanitarian organisations, they are numerous in local self-government, and I think that it is very important for these people to value their volunteer work and protect them from possible abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77716	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77717	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Lugarić, I would like to rephrase to you in the part where you spoke about employment, i.e. the advantages and opportunities of volunteering practically, to get a better and faster merger between employers and volunteers. I think you've hit a very important one. Namely, to identify a good, or desirable person in some professional sense, of course they so-called. The three-month work is not enough and you very often actually during some earlier period of a year or two in collaboration with some of the people who are volunteers you manage to make a much more sensitive assessment of whether the person you were working with is the person who will be the one who will be able to help you in the business tomorrow. Because of course it's not just talking about, it can be very highly educated, it can be professionally perfect, but of course there are many other shades that can't be written in any corridor about whether it's going to suit you or not or whether it's going to be responsible for that job. So I think that volunteer work in that segment is very, very important for future employment and for volunteers, of course, because it's the best possible way to establish business contacts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77718	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77719	Here's my colleague Alenka, I thank you very much for this comment, which has prompted me to a different reaction now, so I'm now reporting for a reply to the replica. Namely, this whole discussion of us and some others shows that the way to what we call a country of knowledge, that the path to what is a skill evaluation, which is an evaluation of competence, is much more than what is a mere, formal education system and these things that we very often hear as announcements from the ministry itself, that it is simply about a broader state of social consciousness if I can say in any way and that in very different areas we need to find these little details that are just going towards affirming competence and skills that a certain individual has. And that's why, personally, it seemed to me that this part of volunteering or recognising skills acquired by volunteering can make a significant contribution to youth employment, and I think it's a shame that we don't even take advantage of such an opportunity to adopt this law more if we know that the problem of youth unemployment is extremely large today, that they are characterized by short-term employment, or very often flexible, those forms of employment at a certain time, occasionally, etc. So I think it's necessary to develop mechanisms that, however, in this insecure employment system would still give such firm points in terms of recognising the skills that certain people have acquired by waving volunteering, because that's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77720	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77721	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable promoters. Volunteering is an unpaid work and a kind of branch of philanthropy at which time replaces a practically checkbook. Volunteer work with us was recently reserved for naives and utopians. However, according to a survey of the National Foundation in Croatia, it volunteers about 5%, while... There's been some data that the number of volunteers is about 11%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The collected data indicate a low frequency of volunteer engagements, perhaps just a few times a year which bounces away from all world trends. For example, in the United States alone, every average teenager volunteers about three and a half hours a week. Why is it and how it changes and how it might change the time at all will show. It's more about some interest in some public good, for some common good as we used to call it social well-being. Volunteerism offers an alternative to division of work and is limited in the definition of a person common in industrialised Western countries and enables young people in particular to work for the community while developing and learning new skills, applying in the market system. The participation of young people in volunteer projects encourages their later involvement in similar projects. The inclusion of young people in local projects that contribute to Community improvement raises awareness and strengthens their sense of responsibility for the community and for the values of the entire civil society. But not only do young people participate in volunteering. Volunteering is part of more or less of every civilization and every society. It is defined in its broadest sense as a non-profit, non-payment and non-economic activity to which individuals contribute to the well-being of their neighbours, their communities and society as a whole, which appears in various forms. From those traditional as we only listened to in the speech of our colleagues Letica, from mutual self-help to organized community action in times of crisis, which was in Croatia in our immediate history during the Homeland War. The concept of including local general folk volunteer actions as well as bilateral international programmes that exceed borders. Volunteers began, began to play an important role in prosperity, or well-being, and progress in all industrialised countries. Volunteering is also the basis of many NGOs, professional associations, various trade unions, etc. The role of volunteers is important for many well-being institutions where they are partly responsible for the work of the organization by contributing to their expertise and skills. But saving money too. However, we must not forget. Volunteers are not only present to represent cheap labour, but by their presence they contribute to the achievement of the existing opportunities of the organisation and the creation of new ones. One of the key features of volunteers is their belief that it is globally starting with the local. That economic and social progress does not grow from the top to the bottom but just the opposite of the local and widest layers up. Volunteers work for organizations and institutions for various reasons. Out of altruism, the desire to help people who need help, to be useful to the community and also to their own interests, the desire to meet new people, the desire to learn new skills, the end of the day by spending their free time. Regardless of their motives, it is important to stress that volunteering enables the most different needs to be met and the importance of volunteering is the best speech of the fact that in 2002 the UN declared the international year of volunteers. Despite the tradition of volunteering in Croatia, there is still no legal regulation or any one would fully regulate the relationship between volunteers, volunteers, volunteering users and their relationship with third parties. Well, the Labour Act regulates volunteer work, but not in the right sense, but only as an unpaid compulsory internship. Certain relationships may be regulated by analogous application of certain provisions of other laws such as the Health Insurance Act or the Pension Insurance Act or the Mandatory Relations Act. But this is a very unfavourable situation for volunteers themselves, and this is where this proposal comes in, of course, that I welcome, although it is very, very good quality, I just have to say that it is still late. I think we could've brought it back sooner. Let's just say that our close countries have long been regulated by the legislation regarding volunteering. For example, so Germany has already adopted the Law on Voluntary Social Employment in 1964 and I think Italy in 1991. We're late for dinner. For 15 years, however, the Republic of Croatia has entered this space of human altruism, which has always existed in the people, but the government recognized it only now with this law. However, it should be said that the bill has been made very correct. It should certainly highlight and commend the final and precise regulation of all rights that a person as a volunteer has. Such as volunteering, education, in particular, the right to compensate for the costs incurred by volunteering, as well as protection when volunteering, or to meet volunteers with all possible dangers that can be encountered during volunteering. This is extremely important, since so far many volunteers have made maximum use of it and have not received any compensation for it. By entering into force of this law, each volunteer will now be recorded in a volunteer book or by issuing a volunteer certificate. On the other hand, obligations are also prescribed as well as the consequences of their disrespect in order to further highlight the morality and honorary call of volunteers are also prescribed to adopt the Ethics Code of Volunteers as a basic guideline in the description of the role and the permitted behaviour when volunteering. We are free to say that this bill contributes precisely to raising the level of responsibility of individuals and organisations in the community through which individuals act in several ways. The proposals of this Voluntary Law are certainly commendable to show how this proposal works in cooperation with NGOs currently involved in volunteering. This should also be a lesson in future for similar laws that are passed exactly in agreement with directly interested ones because such proposals are then where and where more high quality than those that the Government itself submits. However, the proposal has one significant failure. Since volunteering is the phenomenon most often taking place at a local level unacceptable as the proposal failed to regulate the role of local and regional self-government bodies or to regulate their responsibilities that would apply to volunteering. I also propose to create a database on people who volunteer but also a special database on people who want to volunteer and to companies and organisations who want to involve volunteers in their work. I think a database like that would be very welcome for my colleagues. This will significantly simplify the process of monitoring volunteering. And on the other hand, people who want to volunteer or legal persons who need volunteers in one place will be able to find what they are looking for. To increase awareness of the importance of volunteering, to promote it as a social value but also to show young people how they can feel good knowing that they did a good part of the opinion I did that would not be bad if they involved some kind of volunteer action but practically from primary and secondary school and at least twice a year. And let us not forget, this is the part that I have replicated to my colleague Lugarić, as volunteering reduces the negative consequences of unemployment, enables an individual to actively participate in the community and build professional status, personal and professional empowerment of individuals, ensures the spread of business contacts to the unemployed and rarely leads to direct practical work. At the dawn of the new millennium volunteering is an important element of every society, the Declaration of the United Nations, which says that we nations have the power to change the world that turns it into a practical and effective action. People, volunteering and the non-governmental sector often banalise but it's mostly an area where literally with a group of like-minded people still change society's consciousness, influence laws, do political pressures and all that's not so easy. The hardest thing to do is break through ice, fortunately under the influence of democracy and the development of civil society volunteering becomes acceptable and desirable activity. The time of change in which we live requires an initiative, reliability, specific knowledge of skills, and in any case I welcome the adoption of this law with small changes until the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77722	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77723	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Well, she's right when she says volunteering is unpaid work, but unfortunately, we have another situation that individuals are in various NGOs, volunteering is a major interest because they do not achieve goals and associations, but rather achieve their personal goals, personal interests and travel around the world and related to the payment of bills, telephones and homes, and in this sense it goes on the burden of taxpayers again, future and various NGOs get money from the state budget and from the budget of locals, from municipalities, cities and counties, and in this sense it should also legally disable these things that we all know are essentially happening and that they do not exercise under the cover of volunteering, that volunteering becomes only a cover for achieving their personal interests and objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77724	The reply to the replica of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77725	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Kovacevic, I don't think we should talk about this law on any possible means of abuse of volunteering institutes. Of course, like everywhere, there are certainly abuses in this segment, but I would still differentiate the concept of general social well-being and the concept of personal interest. So, of course we, everyone, regardless even if they work for someone of general good and public interest has in that segment of their own personal interest. Under that personal interest, I don't mean criminal activities or I don't know how to abuse some institutions like you mentioned them in order to provide some material good but that some particular interest exists, so ultimately interest in training skills or interest in knowing new business partners, or interest in getting some new knowledge, contacts, etc., I think it's quite useful. The interest must exist, because if it's not there then there's no such thing as action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77726	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. For the club HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77727	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Well, I'll give a brief statement to the position of the Croatian party of law. We will support this law in the first reading and normally such a law is necessary for Croatia but I say until the second reading you will have to pay particular attention to this part of what I have now told my counterpart in the replica that it is legally regulated that individuals do not become a major interest and that we have a lot of such situations in practice and that legal regulation or various ethical codes and other rules of conduct so that individuals do not achieve their personal goals, their interests under the cover of volunteering and prevent such and similar behaviours. But I'm saying, another legal problem means that you need to regulate exactly what volunteering is, we know that it's well regulated, but we need to, we know what the situation is, be careful so that there are no various abuses. We have a variety of situations, we know that NGOs and these associations dealing with this work are funded and taxpayers' resources are directly from the state budget either from the budget of cities, municipalities and counties and some are getting even funding from abroad, so they are trying to impose some solutions through these NGOs where Croatia would be a test point of testing which these international associations that finance them do not test on, in their country, but are trying to test it, or try to conduct at Croatia level to be a test rabbit. But I say important, an important part will be for you for the second reading exactly this and what fellow Letica and the others have been saying, Mr. Fellow Honorable Mato Arlović. Now see if this law will be generic and what it will be in relation to other laws such as the Fire Department, the Croatian Red Cross Act, the Law on humanitarian aid and all these other laws. So that's where you have to make a good relationship, a good relationship. It means it's like some kind of generic law, but that these special laws like that have to follow in order to have a unique and whole legal system, so that there can't be any of these various jumps. Here's so much on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77728	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77729	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would eventually take the opportunity to thank first of all all all all the MPs and MPs who participated in the debate, truly correct and constructive debate. By the second reading, the Proposer will examine all these proposals which were on the existing text of the law in terms of additional grooming and improvement of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77730	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Voluntary Law. I give the vote the conclusion: the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour, one abstention and 2 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77733	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's this proposal for a law on the financing of political parties is one, I would say in a series of proposed or passed laws during the term of office of this government. Just to remind the government's mandate, the Law on the financing of the campaign for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia has been passed. It is in office, also regulated by the law of law at the end of the duties of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of members of the local self-government presidential bodies have also been made. So some pre-election and post-election issues at local level have been resolved. It is also in the process of amending and supplementing the law that addresses the question of those so-called. the famous 'bianko' resignations. It is also in the process and pre-election before this House, in this House are the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. The National Election Commission Act has been adopted, introducing a permanent electoral body. Here in the government's procedure is also the Law on determining salaries, which will determine salaries for the Permanent State Election Commission, and then it will be able to be established and start working and elected. It is also in preparation for the Law on the List of Voters and I would say that it is one whole series of laws in the term of office of this government. I'm afraid, in fact, it determines and changes the election, introduces electoral political reforms. I would like to point out in particular that the proposal for a law on the financing of political parties is also a commitment set out in the 2006-2008 National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption by this Croatian Parliament, which obliges the adoption of a special law on the financing of political parties, which will prescribe possible sources of funding for political parties and closer set aside the means allowed in such a way that the best practice of the European Union countries will be incorporated, clearly and precisely identify the commitments in the control of the financing of political parties, and introduce transparency of financing with one of the significant, significant ways to reduce or combat political, political corruption. This is precisely why the basic issues proposed to regulate this Law are the sources of funds for the financing of political parties, donations by natural and legal persons, the way donations are the highest amount of donations that natural and legal persons can donate to a political party in one calendar year. A ban on anonymous donations and illicit sources of funding. Furthermore, transparency of the sources of funding and the costs of political parties and supervision of financial operations and sanctioning the handling of the contrary provisions of this Act. As sources of funding for political parties, membership fees, voluntary contributions, publishing activities, sales of propaganda material, organisation of party events, property owned by the party are established. From the state budget and the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government and other legal means allowed. The use of funds contrary to the objectives set by the programme and the Statute of the political party is subject to sanctioning. As I am one of the important newspapers of this bill is the ban on anonymous donations, and the known donations are limited to 90 thousand kuna from a natural person during one year and a million kuna from a legal, legal person in one calendar year. It is also determined that money must be paid to the political party's central account for transparency and it is also a newspaper that donations made in the form of products and services or in the form of works by a natural and legal person are obliged to issue an account indicating the market value of the donated product or service. What is significant is that political parties are obliged to keep records of the receipt of donations and membership fees, to issue certificates on their receipt, and to keep records and to issue receipt certificates not subject to sanctioning. They shall make donations that cross the ceiling set out in this proposal for a law as well as anonymous donations by the political party shall be subject to application by the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration and shall be paid in favour of the State budget. Unless the parties do so, they shall be subject to sanctions. There are also prohibited sources of funding of political parties by foreign states, foreign political parties and foreign legal entities, unless it is a financing programme for intended education. Of state bodies, public undertakings, legal entities with public authority, companies owned by a majority of the state or unit of local and regional self-government, as well as other legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local and regional self-government has a majority right over shares, i.e. shares of associations of workers and employers, associations, foundations and foundations representing or representing government officials or officials or local officials. And also natural and legal persons against whom payment procedures are being conducted for outstanding and outstanding obligations towards the Republic of Croatia or towards the local and regional self-government unit. The contributions paid to the political party's account above the authorised sources are also due to be made to the State Audit Office, i.e. the Tax Administration, and to be paid in favour of the state budget. Unless it does so, it is subject to sanctions. Political parties shall not make political or other pressures on natural and legal persons in collecting donations. Political parties must also not promise political or other counter-services, privileges or personal benefits of any kind to natural and legal persons when receiving donations to finance their activities. Transparency of sources of funding and costs shall be ensured in such a way that political parties are obliged to show the origin and way of spending the funds collected during the calendar year. Thus, the final account and the financial report shall indicate the data on natural and legal persons who made voluntary contributions and the rental data, i.e. the activities for which these funds were spent by political parties, shall be submitted to the State Office for Auditing and Tax Administration, and such data shall also be published on the political party's website. Political parties which do not keep business books and which do not show the origin and method of spending shall be subject to sanctions with clearly established bodies authorised and obliged to exercise supervision of financial operations, which are the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration. And the bill also provides fines, fines for violations, in the amount of between 100,000 and 500 000 for the political party, and in the case of unlawful donations, therefore, receipts or advances in the triple amount of the received or guaranteed. What is still important to note because, therefore, the Law on the financing of political parties solves the election campaign within, entirely within this law, because one of the areas, one of the main areas of action of the political party is actually going to the elections and election campaign. This law, which provides for the provisions of this law to apply to independent lists and independent candidates, has also resolved the financing of independent candidates' campaigns and independent lists. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the text of the Law on the financing of political parties in the first reading. All proposals will therefore also be discussed from the debate and comments. Before you know it, Mr. President, let me say in the end that the draft of this law, the first draft of this law, was discussed on a round table on which the representatives of the OSCE, representatives of Transparency International, representatives of the European Commission, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, and after the debate on this table, many remarks were incorporated into this first proposal in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77734	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77735	It is simply incorrect that Minister Lovrin claims that the law says it is properly applied to independent lists and independent candidates. The law clearly states that it applies to independent lists and independent representatives. Therefore, the funding of candidates, independent candidates in some pre-election campaign, is a completely different matter than the financing of the already elected independent advocate. I believe this was an unintentional, accidental inaccuracy and inaccuracy. But this area of funding for independent agents is unusually important. About him there will certainly be words here and that would be... Every mistake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This isn't about any candidate funding, it's about the chosen people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77736	The committees. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, president of the Committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77737	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 67th session held on 17 October 2006 discussed the proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 28 September 2006. The Committee discussed the proposal on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee stressed the need to adopt this law in accordance with the obligations of the National Corruption Prevention Programme 2006/2008. A year. In the debate, the Committee supported a solution to ensure that the provisions of this law are properly applied to independent lists and independent representatives, but suggested that this provision be clarified because of its easier implementation. The Committee also proposes that Article 17. The proposal of the Law draws closer to the provisions of the transactions carried out by the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance in the supervision of the financial operations of the political party, the Tax Administration in order to avoid overlapping them. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority vote, 6 votes for and one abstention to the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the Proposal for a Law at a session of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77738	Thank you. The other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very important law for the further development of our legislation on the fundamental values of developed democratic systems and institutions. With this law, we are approaching our legislation, the legislation of the members of the European Union and it introduce into our system one good and quality solutions that improve and modernise our system and make it better and make it more quality. In my opinion, such a law could even call and look at a system of maturing the democratic institutions of our society. What is special and what I would like to highlight, positive and is a good way to pass this law. At the end of her presentation, the minister said that we had first organised a round table where the political, but also the professional public could demonstrate and give their proposals, give their opinions on the draft proposal of this law, and we see that from the very same and discussion of this bill, part of it was accumulated and part of it is in the law and it is, of course, commendable that the law in the first reading, so all the comments, all the proposals made by the clubs and representatives here, and, of course, once again, those remarks that were highlighted on the round table until the second reading, will indeed be able to be discussed in a good way and, in the final proposal of the law, will eventually be installed. So this regular procedure is very important, it's a very important law. What is needed here to say, the current regulations relating to the financing of political parties are indeed modest. The financing of political parties is regulated by Articles 18 to 22. The Law on Political Parties, at one principle level, at a global level where there is actually a series of details unclear and where actually one overall picture of political party financing does not give one transparency and does not give one openness and therefore there can always be doubts about funding within political parties. This is one obligation that we have also related to the programme, the national programme of combating and curbing corruption that we have brought, and that is the fulfillment of those obligations. Therefore, many of the provisions of this law are indeed real and in their very nature anti-corruption measures and prevent any corruption that can be reached. We need to be honest and say that there is a lot of doubt on the political scene, there is a lot of mistrust of political parties not only to this or that, and therefore this law means one step in regulating these relations into one step towards transparency and openness that our citizens are aware of how political parties are financed, who are those who finance political parties. Because what I'm saying is maybe a central place in this law, that's what this law forbids anonymous donations. This is a very important provision, because look if the citizens know who the donor is to a particular party, who he is to help a particular party, when the party comes to power tomorrow, participates in the power of parliament then they will be able to see that relationship whether he was doing it out of some benefit, whether he was doing it from some other motives and that is a very significant progress, a very significant provision. It is also a series of significant provisions relating to the keeping of a register, related to the obligation to publish these data on websites. These are all very important provisions. The law has 30 articles, though, and looking at the number of articles is not very large, but it is really very important. There are also a series of provisions that, of course, should be made clear by the second reading. Here is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system have also warned of certain provisions. In any case, we have a situation that the Law on Political Parties did not have the regulated funding of independent deputies. This law lays down the provision that this law applies to independent representatives as well. It's one provision that needs to be clarified in any case, which needs to be made much more understandable than it is. It is certainly also necessary to clarify this relationship regarding the very supervision of the financial operations of political parties because we have a provision in Article 17 that says that the supervision of the political party's financial operations is carried out by the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration. It is necessary to specify precisely which of these two entities, what kind of supervision they exercise, what powers it has to take to avoid any duplication of the function, in order not to have certain ambiguities. It is also a significant provision of Article 15, which regulates the institution of banning the financing of political parties by foreign countries, political foreign political parties, foreign legal persons, public companies and is indeed a standard provision that we support. However, there is one provision that says, funding is also prohibited for natural and legal persons against whom the procedure for the payment of the dues is conducted, not subordinated commitments to the Republic of Croatia, or to the unit of local and regional self-government. We think that it should go beyond that, not only does it mean those against whom the proceedings are being handled but simply persons who are in debt, persons who have not met their obligations whether or not they are being handled. We think that this article should be done in a way that is not technically necessary. The parties, as we can see, must keep accurate records and membership fees and contributions received and donations, must make it public on websites and no longer have anonymity. This law is indeed a fundamental principle that it wants to promote is the principle of openness that citizens know who is behind certain political parties, that citizens know how these parties are financed, but also how they spend those funds on whether they spend them in accordance with those legal purposes as they are legally and determined. In any case, and it is better to monitor the financing of these parties because we see that we have two entities, so far we have had it quite foggy by, reports have been delivered to our Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and none of this has been exacted until when this report was needed to be delivered, and now we see it also needs to be delivered to the Ministry of Finance and the State Office for Audit and the report is necessary and published on the websites so that it all together affects one transparency and one openness that this law promotes. I must say that in the debate itself, both on the round table and in the section of the professional public, there have also been some issues, and concerning the financing of election campaigns. This is undoubtedly a significant issue, and it is unambiguously possible to resolve this issue in both the separate law and the electoral law. It is possible, perhaps, until the second reading, to consider regulating him and this law that is here in the process. But in any case, the very fact that we regulate this Law in one quality way the supervision of funding and the business of political parties is an election activity is part of the regular activities of the parties, and therefore, it is subject to the very supervision that will be carried out there. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community believes that this proposal is a quality foundation in first reading and second reading that it is possible to make even more and certain improvements, that certain provisions can be clarified, specified and I think that this Law will be even better and better by adopting it, and we really accept the currents of advanced democracy, of the European Union and of the second reading, in any case, certain ambiguities, certain issues need to be further clarified. The Croatian Democratic Community supports the Bill's proposal in its first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77740	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative Damir Kajin and Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77741	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here, as chairman of the Legislatives Committee, Mr. Bosnjakovic said he would accept the Parliament or its Committee all these constructive proposals. Well, one of the first constructive proposals would be for this law to bear the title of the HDZ and SDP Finance Act, as well as other political parties. And why is that? HDZ and the SDP make two-thirds of all funds intended for the parties, and we all have maybe one-third left. Maybe one-third. The HDZ and SDP alone have representative assets that should not have belonged to them under any moral law. From 80 million to 100 million kunas, how much they blend into political parties on you is about 60%. So much to show for it. Why should the title say that? Because you are finally the only one to exchange in power, and the government has a kind of budget and extra budget income from cca this year is 117 billion kuna. True, of that money 85% is for pensioners employed in the public sector, unemployed, health care, etc., but if we add influence to large state systems, the impact is far greater. I mean, first of all, systems like one INA, HEP, Croatian Post Office, Croatian Insurance, HAK, I don't know, Post Office, etc. The rest of us, come on, we have some influence on local budgets but there are still the most represented cca 10 parties and one now sees a special caste of God's independent councilors who are highly political, not to say interestingly motivated. Understandably, I am of the opinion that the so-called business should be regulated in the same way. NGOs, many of whom are in a far better position than 95% of political parties. Foreign budgets, I said, are cca 80 to 100 million kuna. The budgets of NGOs amounted to 136 million kunas last year. They're very profitable organizations. Many have a budget of 5 to 6 million kunas. So much at the annual level in Croatia, not counting the strongest parties, there are perhaps 4.5 more parties. And finally, 5, 6 or 7 million kuna is more than the budget of 200 Croatian municipalities, counting this redistribution that will take effect from 1.1 next year. I also don't personally think they're so-called. It's a sacred letter to the NGOs that all they have to do is keep quiet about them because they have a representative policy of power and media power, for example. they participate in the Council of Croatian Radio Television, etc., which turns them into political entities that often receive more media space and than those who have themselves electoral legitimacy. But I won't talk about it, but you're well aware that 95 or 97% of political parties have almost no power, almost no money, and the power was clear, will be in the executive power that controls directly and indirectly 150, 160 billion kuna in this country, 2/3 of GDP in capital that can almost buy everyone and clearly in the media. In the media where now, here, we have these cases that individuals are looking for severances from some regional sheets of over 100,000 euros, etc. What should be forbidden to journalists, unionists, so-called. Independent associations go to the polls. They can be clear, but six months before the election, they must withdraw from the newspapers, from the unions, from those associations because otherwise there is no fair fight. There's no fair game. Those who are often the most fierce critics of party political life in Croatia are often not even the moral shadow of many in the parties, but as time moves away, which you should be afraid of, politics in this country will only be able to deal with the rudely wealthy individuals, and I fear that it could then be the twilight of democracy. These amounts in this Law of 90 thousand kuna for a natural person or million kuna for a legal person whom someone might give to someone in a calendar year, as if they were actually written for the strongest parties. Pragma, of course, teaches people to invest in safety, so they give little to another stranger who has the chance to exchange in power. For example, the House of the Lord's Fund remains at a time of 500 thousand kuna to the HDZ, 100 thousand kuna to the IDS, so much they gave HSLS, HSP, DC got 200 thousand kuna, as much as he got HSS, but that doesn't mean that that money IDS didn't register neatly. And secondly, no matter what, we were able to undo their book at about 250 acres [250 ha] so-called. tourism land in Poreč and open Liburni. So you can be quite autonomous, that's not controversial. The parties are far more autonomous than many NGOs who have to justify their money, for example, from individual entities from the country or abroad. There's nothing for nothing or nothing for nothing. If Soros or the Council of Europe or the European Union donates 100,000 euros to you, you will have to justify them because there are no more 100,000 euros next time. I'm not running away that NGOs, mostly the Helsinki Committee, have done a lot of work for democracy in Croatia, but I'm bothered by the performance we're saints, and all of you are at least thieves, bandits. Never IDS, here's an exception and this Dom, the fund didn't get from anyone 90 thousand kuna, let alone someone to offer you a million kuna and then really ask the question of who are these provisions being written for? You know who it's about. A million kunas will never get any IDS, no HSLS, no HSP, no PGS, no SDSS, and who can get it I think everyone here in this House is clear. Article 7 and 12 in our club are correct, this is the most common way of funding with the fact that it remains a dilemma of what with so-called. independent representatives, or councillors, and what they can use that money for. The most controversial is this Article 15, not in paragraph 1 of point 1 where the financing of political parties by foreign states, foreign political organisations, foreign legal entities is prohibited, but I absolutely support it in paragraph 1 of point 2 where trade associations are referred to as majority state or local self-government. First, paragraph 1 of Article 1(1) prohibits funding from foreign countries, foreign political organisations, foreign legal entities. I want to believe that no one will fund their branches in third countries, but what's more than interesting is this majority stake mentioned by the legislator. The majority share, it's 50% and now does the HT in which the state has 49% can finance any of the political parties? Those with the 49% they have in the party, 51% of the states then they could simply fund it for whoever they want. INA, which is the dominant state-owned, although it also has the dominant management rights in the party, can't, but HT can't, which doesn't mean that I don't know the named Grammy of 300-thousands of the first people in the INA in gratitude for not giving something to someone in one term. All those who took part in the conversion, and I want to say that, and today they are the moral debtors of those who created them. Could Pliva now, with 17.3% of state ownership, have been able to finance any political option so far? Well, of course she could. 17.3% at first glance looks small, but 17.3% was almost 2 and a half or more 2 billion and 700 million kuna and we saw whoever got that 17 and a half percent or 17.3% eventually got this whole company. As for the criminal provisions of Article 21 below, they are in my court of dragons, little where there are such high penalties, will the question arise after this and the financing of NGOs, or other entities on the political stage? It is unacceptable that this law hardly mentions independent lists or independent candidates. You're really asking yourself how is that possible? Especially should we regulate their funding because how are payments going? Payments go to their private accounts mainly through the form of a contract on the part, which is normally subject to payments in the pension and health care system, so that the gentlemen de facto enters them into a retirement base. The law, ministers should simply regulate this to avoid these double obligations, i.e. those independent candidates should not be in a double-privileged position compared to members of political parties. What are these, at last, people would ask themselves, "Bloody Proposers, and not to see how political life has worked in Croatia for the last few years?" Independents have no chance in some major environments, but in a small one where each list crosses the threshold in general its clear political views, and the worst part is that they collaliate as they need it, where midology at that point means nothing simply puts everything into question. Without clear, unequivocally regulating the law is not the law. That should be regulated, and without it, the law would be skewers. Understandably, no one is against this Parliament to clearly, unequivocally regulate the financing of political parties. This transparency should become a condicio son qua non of anyone who in this way tries to make himself politically clear, but let's look ourselves in the eye and admit to whom these rules are de facto written. For small parties, it is written as shown exclusively for the two parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77742	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77743	Thank you, Mr. President. He incorrectly determined counterpart Cain that the Croatian Democratic Union has a property to earn and target. So that's completely incorrect. The Croatian Democratic Community has bought the only building with its headquarters from the City of Zagreb and there are valid documents showing payments. And secondly, he said that the power of course the Croatian Democratic Union, I only limit myself to my own party stems from some other sources. A fellow power comes from any party or Croatian democratic community exclusively out of the free will of voters, which is shown in parliamentary or other local elections. So, this power that actually means serving the people who chose you is what you choose, what needs to be demystified and what you mystify, and this law is, of course, corrected written for all those who are involved in political work in the Croatian state, and how many members who can collect it depends on the programs we offer as individual parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77744	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77745	Mr. President, colleague Cain said that independent representatives are in a double-privileged position. This is simply incorrect because they are indeed not in any privileged position compared to MPs who are in political parties. The political parties receive the same amount for each parliamentary representative they hold in Parliament, and the independent representatives receive the individual amount in a separate account to which only the amount obtained from the Assembly and those in any privileged position are not, even though there is no party infrastructure behind them, and under number two, imagine if an independent representative were to receive a donation from the natural person that the parties today can get to make it look like and what kind of a hack would be on them, so that there are no privileges in relation to the independents there are no words.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77746	Thank you. SDSS club? He's losing his word. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77747	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister! So what do we say about this bill on political party financing compared to that part of the draft we had before we had a conversation at the Round Table? It must be acknowledged that a certain shift has been made but the law remains hollow as Swiss cheese and has been done according to HDZ and SDP. That has to be admitted and Damir's right and that's what Damir and I were saying on the Round Table. Why was it made? I'll give you more examples. The first example is the law although I asked for on behalf of the Croatian party's club the right to say nothing about financing based on real estate, renting real estate, renting. Who's that real name? He's got SDP, he's got HDZ. Why isn't that in law? It's an interesting situation. But let's say another variant if we're going around the Croatian real estate page is the right on Starčević's taken home "Dr. Ante Starcevic". The HSS was also taken away from this part of Croatian Radio where it now has HNS premises. That's your situation now. Therefore, why did these provisions not become legal? That's what I want to hear. So these are not small amounts obtained from real estate rentals or by giving and various other situations. Next, why am I saying that the law is still hollow like Swiss cheese? I'll just tell you a few simulations. A couple of simulations the law doesn't give an answer to. You're saying that a legal person can give a maximum amount of funding means a million kuna from a legal person. And the legal person has 5.6 daughters. He's got a 5.6 to his daughter's company. Why didn't you put that on if you wanted to limit it? She's a legal person, but she has 5.6 daughters and she each has legal status. So one legal person can't get a million as it says here, it can get 5,6, 7.8 depending on how many companies, daughters, or sons, or what they're going to call them. Why, let's simulate we had a situation for last parliamentary elections one printer in the City of Zagreb was doing a promotion and the whole part for one political party who paid a symbolic amount for the services of all this and the money came from Spain, for example, from an account... Or other firms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't apply to HDZ. Why, for example, is this variant not regulated in law? So that's the part you say simulation. Therefore, no simulation has been performed in a way that is applicable to try to cover all those situations that we know are practically, the fact that these models have already been tested. Let's just say why you didn't put this option there's a problem in liquidity, so many public companies have been waiting a long time to collect the works or services they've done already depends on what they're talking about. And then to come in order before the payment must be made if it is about the city to pay the amount to the party ruling the city. In the case of public undertakings at state level, there are also opportunities and cases that must be paid into the account of the party in power. Like you haven't solved those situations. Also, why is there no such provision if a person, a legal person, a craftsman, is found to have a job based on a public tender or an even worse version of a direct contract because of the fact that he has paid a certain amount to the party in order to get into a situation. So if everything is to be regulated then in this part of sanctioning and means preventing infringements should also be put in place such provisions so that all of these irregularities could occur so that they could, after determining that they were such a violation, have been a racketeering or a variety of other relationships so that they could be sanctioned. And thus prevent future repetition of such or similar variations. Let's just say, take only in article 15 of the ban on funding and conveniences that this part is not even worked out from this point of view which I am now saying on behalf of the Croatian Party's right club but look at the variant of the next one. Veli, natural and legal persons shall be prohibited from financing political parties by natural legal persons against whom the procedure for the collection of committed and outstanding obligations to the Republic of Croatia or beyond is conducted. So let's say this is where the TV subscription doesn't come in. That's right. Who's got that information? There is only the lawyer company Hanžeković & Radaković, who is doing the procedure on behalf of Croatian television and earns money, money and money. How are you going to determine that? As the party, for example, gets it, she doesn't know if anyone paid the TV subscription. Or he didn't pay. Okay, in other countries, it is normal for ministers or ministers to step down because, for example, in Sweden, the situation was that they found that the minister had not paid a TV subscription and had to resign as such. So, give it to me if you're showing up right now, Madam Secretary of Defence of this law and Mr. Palaric has been on all of these options so far. So I believe that you have the opportunity to simulate these provisions better and what you will hear from us today, as we have heard from both Damir and other clubs, even from the HDZ club means if we want to do what we want to do to eliminate all the various situations that are happening. They happen, but we need to prevent them from happening as they do. And now let's say the variant that needs to be noted, which is that natural persons and legal persons, for example, who donate to my party according to the provisions of this law or to any other opposition party, may be subject to the miscreation of the competent authorities as well as to various inspections, tax administrations, finances and all other things, may be. Because there's nothing said here that those like that can't be the subject of chicanning, but let's say that if it were found out that my party paid some legal person, let's say 100,000 kunas, it's known because the competent authorities know and as such can go to the chicaning of such a company because it paid that amount to my party. There are no such provisions as to prevent the possibility of shagging or misusing anything that should not be allowed. Therefore, it is clear that this is, it is good that Croatia will finally get this law, it is normal that it is good but that we must be aware that until the second reading we must all of these situations that are present in life are mainly in these provisions procedurally related to the establishment, sanctioning and preventing anything that should not happen at political level. We have to remove it, and then we'll finally have the law, so if these remarks are adopted by my club, the IDS Club and the HDZ Club. So we'll get what we all probably want, but we don't want what I've been saying in practice and what our simulations from the Croatian party club show and I'd like you to reassure me, but unfortunately you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77748	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77749	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, I am correcting the incorrect allegations this time to Mr Kovacevic, who probably thinks the repeated untruth will turn into his opposite. The truth, but it won't. So, the truth for the sake of Croatia, the democratic community repeats there is no room to rent, no renter, we are a serious political party that carries out the political activity for which we are registered. And I ask my colleagues to discuss it afterwards, that I don't have to report every time, to take it as a true fact. The Croatian Democratic Community is not involved in renting, and I am sorry to say that we have no more space, so unlike some other parties that have these premises, but it is now a failure of some former governments that are not the property of the Socialist Union and former communists of the SKH, so let it remain a burden for those who should have done so and did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77750	Second correction by the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77751	A colleague, Kovacevic, said as one of the weak points of this law, there is no funding provision for real estate and real estate rental. I think it's an incorrect piece of information because Article 2 of this law states that we have as a source of income, it's property owned by a political party. If we link this to Article 19, we see that the report which the party must submit in that report must show the origin and method of spending the funds collected during the calendar year. This means that in that report it must be the income obtained either by rent or by no means from the company's income of the daughter and any other income. I agree with you that it is good that the law is in the first reading, that we can improve it to the second if you have suggestions, that these provisions are clarified and that they may be clearer it will be welcome but it is not the correct information that these provisions do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77752	Third correction, respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77753	Well, I, too, would like to correct Mr Kovacevic's claim that this law was written for SDP and HDZ. It is simply not true and is not the intention of this law to be related to SDP and HDZ. And secondly, I'd say it's not nice for a parliamentary representative to knowingly tell the truth and then sit on the bench and laugh at how we correct it so HDZ doesn't rent its own premises. You know that, it's already been said several times, that we don't rent spaces, that we don't have them, but you come to the pay phone and you repeat that because television is broadcasting it. It's just not nice and it's not correct. A parliamentary representative cannot be false.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77754	Fourth Amendment Honored Representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77755	Mr. President, I would also refer to the inaccuracy of Mr. Pere's allegations because he is contradictory, Kovacevic. It is not true because it is simply the opposite of what his party has been saying lately because it turns out that they will soon be the strongest party in Croatia. Therefore, and will have the Prime Minister, etc. Well, then we should see ourselves there. That is why I expect that until the second reading he will settle where he thinks he should be and correct his opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77756	This second part is not a correction to an incorrect quote. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77757	Your Honor, Mr. President, I've done exactly what you asked me to do because an honorary colleague hurt Article 209 because I didn't talk about it, and otherwise you're right about what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77758	Yeah, yeah, sure. Let's move on. PGS club, SBH, MDS respected representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77759	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen! Here, therefore, let me refer briefly to the Law on the financing of political parties on behalf of the regional party club. We think it is an important law, so we need to bring it to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, and we support the initiative and intensity of this law, which is shaped this way, but in the second reading we will have a fundamental remark that the law itself is renamed and that it is a draft law on the financing of political parties and election promotions. We therefore think that this law must therefore include electoral promotion because, as you know, the election promotion has so far been covered only as far as the election is concerned for the President of the Republic, and since the elections for the Croatian Parliament are before us, I think that should be covered by this law. So we accept the intensity of this law in that sense, but we also have certain observations. It is therefore our general observation that such a law should have yet another fundamental objective. to develop and ensure the development of political pluralism in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, that's not the case. We also agree with those who claim that he favors large parties while small parties remain on the margin without the necessary means to function, regardless of how high-quality programmes they have. In this way, they are condemned to vegetation or even to light euthanasia and the question of how many parties, therefore, will survive on the political market. But it is also good according to the Law on Political Parties whose second reading is thus obtained by the Croatian party of rights which, unlike euthanasia, uses such, or causes or works massacres against political parties because by the decree of that party's law is abolished. But let's get back to this law of ours. So we said that ours, this proposed law has good sides. In particular, it is commendable that the law accepts the comments made on the Round Table and the debate on this law. That is why I am primarily referring to Article 15, the new items that say that political parties cannot be financed by the natural and legal persons against whom the procedure for the collection of due and outstanding obligations to the Republic of Croatia is being conducted. Unfortunately, we were witnessing that election campaigns in the previous elections had funded such campaigns and such, such companies that did not pay their workers, which did not pay their contributions and had the means to finance, support certain political parties, and it was probably a "deal" to forgive or to go hand in hand. We also welcome the exception, therefore, in this article where the ban on funding does not apply to funding programmes intended for education. I think that this should actually be an education and extended to different civil, civil processes or programmes. As regards the other observations, we have an objection to Article 3 which therefore speaks about giving political parties certain donations in the form of products or services. So that's where we ask the question of how will volunteers issue an account to foreigners about the services they provide? So we think we should regulate it more in detail, question of services. Then the issue of restrictions on the donation of natural and legal persons. It is our view that the proposal therefore amounts to i.e. 90,000 kunas or millions of kunas to be smaller, and that would affect our election campaigns not being too expensive. They are not, therefore, not to be spent on enormous assets like they have been so far, because it simply does not comply with the standards that our citizens have and is not right, so in accordance with our gross social product because often our campaigns look just as much as they cost as campaigns in the United States, for example. We also have an objection to Article 9. We think that again there is a provision under which, if a single representative or representative leaves or changes the membership of the political party, the financial resources allocated from the State Budget for the work of the parties remain to the political party whose representative belonged at the time of the Croatian Parliament's constitution. That case calls into question the constitutional provision on the non-binding nature of the parliamentary representative's mandate. We also ask that financial reports be more detailed and comprehensive and we also think that, if they do not make the reports properly, they should also indicate the loss of funds from state and local budgets and not just penalties. I also think that Article 4 should add that, when making voluntary contributions, donations to the bill so far are not explicitly prescribed that voluntary contributions to money must be paid to the central gyro-account of the political party. It is also not mandatory to conclude a donation contract in the event of a voluntary contribution, a donation in addition to issuing an account by a political party as a donor. It is also not anticipated that these donation contracts are necessarily introduced into the political correctness of the donation. So we have a special article that speaks about it but is not related to this donation institute. Here maybe, here's to the end for example a few words about transparency so that actually every party has to act. We as the IMF, the Međimurje Democratic Alliance for the past year gave all reports to all the necessary institutions. Here we can also publicly say that our income in 2005 was 228 thousand kuna. That they were three tranches of the Međimurje Democratic Union of 75 thousand kuna, 3,000 from the municipality of Donji Kraljec. That we spent one third of that money on the party's work. We've arranged our office. These were also the costs of an election campaign. And two-thirds of us spent on different projects run by certain associations or individuals. So in 2005, we separated 65,000 kunas into a student scholarship fund. So we called a public tender and gave 21 scholarships to the students. This year we gave 70 thousand kuna and gave 23 scholarships and so on. I think that way every party here and here in the House would have to file a report on how they spend their resources. We think that this would have a major impact on the reputation of political parties and politicians because, lastly, recent research shows that politicians are back at the bottom of getting a trust assessment. In Croatia, this rating is from 1 to 5. For politicians 1.7, perhaps a little today can comfort that the same rating is 1.7 reviews in 19 countries where research has been done. That they are doctors first, that they are teachers and teachers with a score of 2.8 in Croatia. Here's what might be a chance to give teachers and teachers support. We know they're strikein', so we're gonna give them support in this budget, too. And it's good to conclude. We support the intensity of this law. If by the second reading, he will be changed in this sense to include funding for election campaigns, we will also support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77760	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77761	Well, counterpart Pavlic said that the Law on Political Parties, which is in the process of colleagues from the HSP, would lead to the elimination of small political parties by decree and that they would actually commit a massacre against them. I think it is an incorrect assumption because simply according to the current legislation 100 full-aged citizens can establish a political party. What, by law, according to the draft law that is in the procedure, actually regulates the conditions, requires a large number of citizens, and I think it's more about editing our political scene because when we look at the political scene, we have over 100 political parties. I don't think it's political pluralism, it's just that there's more than one mess. And definitely something has to be done in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77762	Second Amendment, Honorable Representative Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77763	He says that the adoption of such a law or text would be in some way the euthanization of certain small parties. That's incorrect. On the contrary. This law would ensure equal treatment of all parties and fair play in elections. Corruption would fall to a minimum, and confidence in politicians and political parties would be increased so as not to have to hide behind some major parties in each election, preferably in the form of another party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77764	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77765	It is an incorrect claim that the provision of the law under which an agent who would loses the right to money from the state budget after the constitution of the Assembly, i.e. that that money belongs to the candidate party, would be a question of a non-binding term of office. This has nothing to do with a non-binding term of office. the non-binding term of office is the inability to recall MPs during the term of office, and not his right to leave the candidate party, if he would... vote in favour of the party list and that, in fact, by abuse of one right, they achieve an unsuitable material benefit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77766	For the HNS club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77767	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS's club supports any law that will introduce more rules and more order and more clarity in financing political parties. Because all the difficulties resulting from unclear funding at that level, at the political level, they are multiplied at other levels of society. It is really right to say that our fight against corruption is going very slowly, that we are on the corruption perception index for the last few years more or less in the same place after the breakthrough we made in the first year of this century. And the political corruption that happens at the level of political parties if it happens at all other levels significantly increases, it multiples with some factor that is of course difficult to calculate, depending on what the state of society is. Therefore, political party and policy financing should be as clear as possible in this segment. And in this sense, of course, we support the intensity of this law that introduces some new elements in that segment and tries to clarify the situation of policy financing and political parties. However, some things in this law are not properly solved in our opinion. So, of course, in this first reading, in that sense, we're going to make our remarks. And that's that there's no campaign funding in this law. Funding campaigns is one particular topic and it would be good if when we pass the law to regulate a whole question, one problem. The problem of policy financing, especially campaign financing, of course... What kind of campaign you're supposed to have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be good, therefore, and this content of policy financing comes into this law. There is no reason for it to be in any other or third law and to be limited to campaign financing. There is no need for any and any campaign in the Republic of Croatia to be bigger than any amount, I have little experience with it, so I will say what would be the approximate amount. So it's about a dozen or a few dozen million kunas. All that's beyond that amount, which goes beyond 50 or I don't know how many million kunas is killing voters in terms. And the fact that some political idea that may be more high-quality because of this suppression of media space, we've witnessed it in this country, can't actually reach the eyes or the ears of voters because some campaign is so rich and so loud that some other idea that doesn't have that strong, financial media support actually can't reach the voters. So, when we do, if we decide to also finance the campaign into this law, then we should, of course, limit those campaigns. This is about what the limits of the total amount of donations are. Of course we should leave the right for the citizens to donate political parties. However, I fear that idealism in relation to political parties in this country is becoming less and less or less. And the question arises why would someone as a legal person finance a political party with a million kunas a year if it lacks a very specific interest and does not expect in return from the political party. Why would someone do that, and why would a private person give a stranger 90 thousand kuna? What reasons would that be? Therefore, I believe that this right should be left within this law. But this right needs important, both, and that possibility should be significantly limited. One million kuna per legal person and 90 thousand kuna per private person is absolutely too much. I find it hard to imagine a situation where someone would give that money without actually expecting anything from that political party. And if someone gives a million kunas probably expect tomorrow in some hypothetical situations of concessions that weigh for a dozen or maybe a hundred times compared to what he has given. It's not just our story and our experience and our situation. It's universally so in the world. It therefore needs almost universally, especially in Europe there is no such thing. Therefore, it should be left as a possibility, as a right. There really are sympathies, but these amounts are in our opinion absolutely too high. In the state in which our political life is today, we believe that funding from the budget is, however unmarketable, and does not talk about the support of any donation policy, in fact, the purest form of funding. But there is one disproportionate that makes it difficult to place or live new or smaller political parties. We used to have in our laws that amount that is divided into political parties, 1/2 is divided into all parties equally. Because each party has more or less the same needs. Every major political party has the same political needs, needs to present, develop all programmes concerning political life, thus having all the bodies, hence the needs of all political parties in one segment, in particular parliamentary political parties are in fact the same, and in that part should be their funding, and the other part of the budget, let's say the other half of the total cookies given to political parties should be in line with the number of MPs because they should be approved and that these parties and these voters have supported, or that political option. This would make much more sense, this full proportionality of this giving actually makes it difficult to form a political profile of smaller and medium-sized political parties, and only favours the largest political parties and I think that this bill is wrong. It is said here in this Act that donations should be banned if some companies are mostly owned by the state, I believe it is absolutely harmful that any company that is owned by any state can finance any political party. The possibility of abuse at that level is almost unlimited, therefore it should be impossible for any publicly owned enterprise, so the ownership of a state or unit of local self-government with any amount of ownership to finance any political party, because that political party decides directly or indirectly on who will run the company, what will its policy be, and what can you expect that donation to be free? It is therefore politically conditioned, party conditioned through parties that make up power and that the possibility of such a special impact on party financing should be completely disabled and that is what should be put into this Act in its second reading. And in the end, what is particularly important is the question of the effectiveness of this Law. We have a number of good laws, most of them our laws are good if they are implemented in the right way. What is the problem is the difficulty of implementing our laws and so far we have had the opportunity to take some of the elements of this Law which were written in a series of other laws, the Law on Political Parties, the Law on Rights and the responsibilities of MPs and officials etc. to enforce these laws. The question is, how will this law be implemented? I'll give you an example. I'm afraid the situation here is the same as with the good part of our political and public life, which is that there are things that everyone sees, few who talk about them, and bodies that should do so in their own way do nothing. So you have people who have a lot more than they could possibly have by the declared means, they live a dozen times above what they could live by their declared means, but that's what they're talking about, but the state authorities that need to deal with the police, the judiciary, the state's attorney's office are doing nothing about it. It seems to me to be happening to political parties as well. I'll mention the presidential campaign, the candidate for the president of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's state. The campaign declared by the party running for Mrs Kosor was about 6 million kuna. Anyone who knew anything about the campaigns was enough to follow Mrs. Kosor's campaign one day could conclude that the amount couldn't possibly be 6 million kuna. Independent analysts, whatever it means, have estimated that the amount of the campaign is almost 10 times higher than it has been declared, but no body in that sense has tried to react, and it is normal that the Ministry of Interior, the State Attorney's Office and other bodies that could and should also be able to monitor it, do not have that kind of independence to be able to problem the campaign of any political party, and in particular the ruling political parties, and that is the question that opens up when it comes to this Law. Our bodies must be trained to implement this Law, this Law will allow some space, some air to those of our bodies, but we must keep watch over how this Law will be implemented. It can't happen that some amount is declared absolutely visible, multiplely lower than what is really happening, and that's the story with the pâté, the opponent said that even the pâté can't be opened anymore, and that his opponent is not seen on television, newspapers, etc., and that nothing can actually be done because our bodies are not trained to trouble, to examine the situation, and then, as with most of these other issues, we remain hints, certainly true to some,... For some others whom this does not suit and our process remains doubtful, so of course it does not contribute to the creation of clear relations and clean situations when it comes to such an important thing as the campaign, such as the election of the president of the state, parliamentary representatives, and, indirectly, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that's what's the problem behind this problem. We can... This Law is very good, and I expect that this Law will indeed be a shift in the regulation of this important issue, but the issue of implementation of this Law will be met with a general issue and a problem of law enforcement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In short, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and Liberal Democrats will support this Law in the second in the first reading, we expect that this Law will receive these improvements which we have talked about and other clubs, we expect that this law will bring a little more space and opportunity to regulate this important issue, but it should constantly be kept watch over the possibilities for this Law to really be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77768	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Vladimir Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77769	Mr. President, I'd like to correct two allegations from my colleague, Radosh. The first one in which he said there's no provisions on campaign financing anywhere. Only the political party's funding is, among other things, campaign financing because it is the core job of each party and that's what you always say when one election begins a campaign for other elections. Therefore, the party's work is campaign financing. And the next thing he says, every political party has the same needs, thinking in that fixed act regardless of its size. It is simply not true because it is impossible for a large party to say as HDZ, which has several hundred thousand members to have the same fixed costs as some small party that stands in the elevator because only the meeting hall must be much, much larger than the small one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77770	Second correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77771	Mr. President, thank you. A incorrect quote from counterpart Radosa that the candidate's campaign for the president of the state cost a dozen times as much as it was shown. In fact, it is quite clear that the cost picture is correct and yours, as the independent evaluators have said, are probably not independent. They're probably from the HNS or the Liberal Democrats before. Therefore, do not deceive the public with certain amounts. That would mean the campaign cost 60 million kuna. It's really beyond reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77772	Second correction, the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77773	Mr. President! I would also correct Mr. Radosh and his speculation if it wasn't for the exact cost of Mrs. Kosor's campaign. It's just not true. It might be better if you talked about how Minister Cacic used his ministry's budget or money by advertising the ministry and the jobs that the ministry for his term worked and actually advertised himself [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77774	Next correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77775	Mr. President! I quote my colleague Radoš, proportionate party financing, makes it difficult to achieve a political profile, depending not only on party financing. The political profile of one party depends on the person, depends on the program. The political profile of a party also depends on people who also promote the programme and the political party does not win with people who change parties like you so far. The Communist Party, HSLS, Libra, HNS etc. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77776	That's not an explanation for correcting an incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77777	Well, were they? If I were other than HDZ, I'd tell you. I didn't. I'd be better off... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77778	Peace. Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77779	So, it's absolutely, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Petricevic did not, therefore, correct what I said. It is absolutely undeniable that money is also important for the profiling of the political party or for the development of its programmes. She might think she didn't. If she thinks that's not the case, then let HDZ give up some of its funds for the expense of other parties. This speculation about political action is absolutely unfair, it is an insult to MPs. I have been on the same political option all my life and the parties have changed because it was the achievement of political circumstances. As far as the communists are concerned, look around you a little bit. You've got real communists here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77780	This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Order, please! That's an explanation for correcting an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77781	It is incorrect that this law on implementation will pass, as will most of the other laws we make in this House. This law will go much worse. Why? Because Article 17 says that supervision of the political party's financial operations is carried out by the Ministry of Finance among other things. So the finance minister always comes from the party that won the election, which means the ruling party. And now the finance minister should be overseeing his party. Well, it's quite clear how this surveillance is going to work. Therefore, this law with that provision in Article 17 will be absolutely inconclusive. [[Intruder: He's a step back.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77782	Are you correcting an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77783	Yes! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77784	HSLS representative club, respected representative Zlatko Karamaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77785	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! You see, these Bibles are coming to me, so I would argue about this law so that he who is innocent should cast a stone. This is what I've been thinking about these 15 years. I think there are few of those innocents because simply when there are no rules, when there are no game rules, then we really behave according to those rules that apply on some gray or black market. And that's a living fact. It begins with itself and there is indeed a real awareness of this sin that, that the financing of political parties during these 15 years has not been correct. I can now say as an alibi that we have tried on several occasions to do something about this problem and we have proposed that the financing of political parties become as transparent as possible, or that this gray zone, this invisible, these invisible channels try to come down to some reasonable measure. And it's all actually a matter of measure. Are we exaggerating or are we not exaggerating? And of course we can talk about it here and who just once participated in a political campaign then knows exactly how much it costs one second on television, how much is a video, how much is a jumbo crying, citylights? And then when that final bill comes out in the end, then you really see that we haven't been honest with the public. Everyone. Everyone. If that means anything. Normally bigger parties a little more because they're bigger parties so they're richer, so with the money they're really trying to get between... also profile their program and those who are smaller parties they are simply because they are less attractive to all those cloudy jobs and pass exactly in accordance with their strength or size. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's all the truth. And that's all the truth. And then always... Or-or, that's on one side that's fair, on the other, that's bad actually don't stand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We lie to ourselves, and we lie to those people who are supposed to represent us here, and certainly the financing of political parties is a big problem. Is this law going to solve it? It's always good when there's just the awareness that there's something wrong, that he's trying to get rid of it. I don't know if 90 thousand kuna is a little or a lot, or a million kunas. It's the same story as when a writer becomes a classic so they say a hundred years must pass. Well, then we're skeptics. They ask 99, so you can do 99, 98, and eventually you can actually come in and you can become a classic after a year. So whether that ceiling is a 90 thousand or a million kuna limit, whether it's small or large, it's exactly, it's very relative. But what we think is that in this way we're really going to get transparent and it's not going to be, it's not aesthetics, it's uninteresting like that, so then we love something, we have no interest in it then it likes it. Every donation in itself actually contains that interest. Weber writes a letter to Marx, says dear Carla like you think ideas rule the world then the world would be very well and beautifully arranged, but the world is ruled by interests. And it's clear to everyone and they're legitimate if they're normally restricted just not to cross that thin line between what really belongs to a suspicious illegal and what we're just witnessing. Let's just remember the last of these local choices. I was then saying, I don't know how heterical it is, it's the problem that people were changing their sudden political beliefs on those dates, the days when the city's county congregations were established. That's the problem. We have, mentioned here often Karlovac, mentioned here often Sisak, mentioned Osijek, Split etc. But that's the problem. And it's very hard for him to put an end to it. You have, in fact, some naive hope that some court of the public will actually eliminate such people and such political parties from political life. But as we can see in 2005 it actually escalated. But I said one other thought. That it was actually much more dangerous for those who were behind these transactions. Those who want, who have paid for these defects, who have paid for this change of the political will of citizens, who actually want something that is very, also from their point of view very understandably that very quickly not only charge what they have given but also to make their stakes and multiply. That's the problem, and then there's actually no functioning of the rule of law. And these defectors, what my colleague Radosh said, I completely agree with that. It may seem I don't know the change from HSLS to liberal Democrats that it's a crime. I don't mean to condemn it in any way. Politics is, first is the process and life in political parties is not always idyllic. And... No, ma'am Babic, so you've had these earthquakes, and in your own party, you know for sure and you're aware that you've lost some people for whom you've been private in some of the human relations you've been in quite good relationships. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But it's just these anti-cipulations, the evaluations, it's always not just every time it's just some private stuff, but sometimes you let that ideological concept of the difference that's then trying to articulate in one way or another. And that's why so is fellow Stazic when he was replicating how we're going to solve these defects whether we're normal under the Constitution and we can't do anything, a binding mandate is a civilization's reach. The final term of office is binding on how much I remember in the Soviet Union there. They had a binding mandate. Our mandate, and I think that's good. Indeed, this is not something that does not happen in some other countries. Normally when it happens to us and even if we lose it, then it makes us slightly nervous and angry with people like that, and we think of them as we think of them. But, now, whether or not, at the level I don't know the decisions of a possible Constitutional Court whether anyone who changes sides will be able to keep this 300 thousand kuna dowry as well. What's going to happen to that? These are the sums of things that show that policy needs that money as much as possible to get it out, to get it out, not to be it, to not actually be dominant, and to make such rules of the game where, if anything else can escape you, or transfer it, it will not be monetaryally stimulated, but really depend on our ideological political decision, the will to make a certain moment with a certain political one no longer rests. On the other hand, why is this Law on the financing of political parties important? Well, first of all, because our starting positions are unfortunately not the same. Some old traditional parties are handicapped. It is subject to the laws of configuration, nationalization, and they have lost their premises, they have lost their property. Some other parties were lucky to have those who were in '90. In the years they won, they didn't behave like this, so they left some property, some others' properties, and it was a good deposit for a relative, a basis for continued political action. Some parties were made exactly in the '90s, '89s, '90s who weren't so lucky. But this means that the wisdom of the state, the central authorities should now enable and that they can also act politically and that as much as possible to respect this fair play, that indeed someone third... And that the other one actually has everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also think it's very easy to do as easily as someone does, so we're not really just that market principle as one can pay. It really contaminates, then it chokes actually that, that public at all. And then someone does show up, which is said with not too much pâté taste, and someone else actually can't articulate a message of their own, just because they don't have one. So that's it, these things are possible to limit themselves to make that race as equal as possible. Of course we can't ask for a lot of equality. As I also think that parliamentary parties cannot be the only principle, the only criterion is the number of seats in Parliament. He, too, needs a fee. The facts themselves are citizens of someone elected 20 MPs, and the other only 5. That should also be taken into consideration. But that can't be the only criterion either. There, in some ways, parliamentary parties must also be held at the beginning, that in fact that this central government which is certainly variable is not permanent, is not a constant, just to realize that it can sometimes also come in a position to be smaller, to be a minority and to belong to those who will not control. It's not good that at the beginning we always think the finance minister couldn't control it. That's not a good attitude. Then actually, and then, and yet we don't trust too many independent auditors and so on. But in the beginning, we must put our trust in our institutions so that indeed the Minister of Finance can be a man who could also audit his own parties. Maybe what she's saying is naive, maybe it's true. But if this is not a light motive for our political action, then we will always find some person who will have a comment, because some times he will be a minister, or he will have objections when the finance minister is not out of her political option, and he will have no objection when that person is out of her political option. We don't think that's good. And what is very important for us Liberals is that we are legally able to co-operate with other liberal parties. We belong to these associations, HDZ belongs to these associations, Social Democrats belong to these associations. Why prevent exactly this, and we say that we are pro-European, that there is a consensus of our pro-European orientation. Why not have contacts with the FDP, with English liberals or with any other liberal parties in Europe, which is also true for your regiments, the mere association of the mere parties. We have no objection, and indeed there are opportunities and that these parties participate in a large way in political life as part of the same family. As part of the same political family. If that's true for one, then it should be true for the other. We think that this law should also be made possible and we have received some assurances in this, when we discussed in these preparations ever since that round table went on about this, the proposal for this law on the financing of political parties. A promise has been made that this element will be made possible and that we do not really become automotive, etc. So, I also realize this, I'm about to try to be what they say, and optimistic regardless of what, I have no illusions and I'm pretty clear that this gray zone, this fight against the gray zone, and even corruption in political life is actually a battle that can't end with one law. To give this law that green light. What is also waiting for us, which is a very important thing, what our experience teaches us again, is the Law on the List of Voters without which there is also no fair and correct political match. That it is this set of laws that will just make it possible that in Croatia these gray zones and these, in fact, what you do when you do this job, it does make you a little uncomfortable, it actually becomes an occupation that is very speculative and in which the perception in the public is negative. So with these modern, European, liberal laws, let's try to regulate these relationships, with that, let's say, we find some of these other elements that can be, as the technical nature says, that can at first look restrictive but I really think that, I don't know, we can limit the number of videos, or the number of seconds in videos, and the number of these jumbo posters, etc., to that commercial interest or that, in fact, that power that is thus demonstrated and shows that someone can get all and others can actually get crumbs. That it's actually not good and I always think it's a greater sense of satisfaction when you're winners in one, as you say, that ladies don't insult me, one male and equal battle than that when the game is actually pre-set. I don't think anyone likes to be a winner in a fake game. Thank you. We will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77786	Thank you. At 12.53, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77787	Dear colleague Kramaric. You're saying we have to believe that the Minister of Finance will be able to control his own party. That's not true. We can't believe it and not because we think about this or that minister, but because we have to defend the principle that no one can control themselves. If we allow it, then we will only strengthen this mistrust that governs politics as an occupation. Instead of narrowing it down, instead of affirming that profession. In the name of principle, not in the name of belief about this or that minister, man, that he is fair or unfair. We must not accept such a legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77788	SDP club, a respected representative, vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77789	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let us, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, first say a number of principled remarks, with of course support for the need to adopt a Law on the financing of political parties. Or even more specifically, it would be to say that it is necessary to regulate and finance political parties. In fact, we believe that the Republic of Croatia has matured the full time to pass a new Law on political parties, and the question is now being raised whether to regulate the issue of political party financing within that law or to bring a whole new one, such as the Proposed Law on the financing of political parties, i.e. a new law that will regulate only this issue. I warn that if we accept this concept that a particular issue is regulated by a special law, we should then pass more laws relating to material finance business and the financing of political parties and their activity on the one hand. And on the other hand, that at the same time we should again pass a law that would only solve political, organisational and constitutional issues of political parties to meet the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand. And on the other hand, of course, the political and democratic need of today's multiparty society. In fact, we'd like to remind you that it's in article 6. The constitution clearly stipulates that the establishment of political parties is certainly free, that the structure, internal formation of political parties must be in accordance with fundamental, constitutional and democratic principles. Therefore, it must be developed and arranged by law. That parties must publicly account for the origin of their assets and assets, it is again a matter of material financial business, which is practically not covered by this proposal for a law on the financing of political parties. And of course, the issue of banning political parties, but then further said, the law also regulates both the position and the financing of political parties. Now all we have now is the financing of political parties, and we haven't actually been resolved within the framework of the new constitutional, amendment and addition of the Constitution and the new needs of the development of democratic society and of us, the position of political parties. The second principle question is whether political party financing can be too closely understood. It is not possible to understand and prescribe the financing of political parties without, at the same time, covering the issue of the activities of political parties that will actually be financed from the procurement and spending of these funds. And that is why it is completely unreasonable to prescribe the possible acquisition of funds, at the same time not to prescribe the financing and action of the political party at least in the principles, relating to conditionality, let's, so little political intensity, and, in particular, to lay down in that law the issue of political parties' action and its financing of election campaigns where principles and principles, namely principles and actions, have to be developed, which should ensure an equal legal position in terms of the opportunities of each political party or independent lists participating in the elections. That question has also not been resolved. And the third question, it is not good in the Law on the financing of political parties and political parties again of principle nature, of course I am saying, to put questions that are by nature not related to political parties such as the issue of independent lists. The issue needs to be resolved by election law, not by the Law on the financing of political parties. As part of this issue, the specific issue of collecting donations, financing and giving individual solutions, i.e. funds for the financing of independent lists, should be resolved. In particular, the issue of political parties, among other things as the fourth issue of where funding has been raised here. The participation of members and even the question of volunteers on what I will again, with a concrete remark, put in particular some remarks. But the question remains what about candidates and the financing of political parties. What about the practice that has started to appear in the action of individual political parties in Croatia that, before the elections, whether for local, regional or state level, it is actually conditional on possible candidates not to say something else, which is practically not only conditional on natural and legal persons being able to have the opportunity to contribute or donate to political parties but also to a candidate who can possibly take over the political function provided that they pay for it. If he pays, he will get a political post, but the question is, how can he secure funds to settle or recover such money given to the party? It then immediately raises the issue of conflict not only of interest but also of possible action from interesting initiatives not for the sake of political options and the programme being represented. That question should also be resolved in particular. And, of course, there is one particular question about what about the candidates selected, so the council members in municipal, city or county councils, or the congregations or representatives who are conditionally bought after the elections, and where political parties actually use material financial resources would be said to be immoral... In such a situation, the question arises how, in fact, to regulate this issue regarding the cost side of political parties' financial resources and their responsibilities to the moral and democratic structure of society in relation to the natural respect for constitutional law. [[You don't understand.]] These are therefore principled remarks in which we must immediately say that we want to and hope that we should consider them, see until the second reading for a simple reason, as this raises the key issue of integrity and the comprehensiveness of this law regarding their individual application. And of course the last question opens, the issue of law enforcement and control. It is simply not possible in conditions like we have, not only because of the principle which in one of the corrections of incorrect allegations mentioned by fellow Stazic, to transfer the business as stated in the law here, let us best on this example and show, where it is said that the supervision of the political party's financial operations is carried out by the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance more precisely by the Tax Administration, and then further in Article 20, the State Audit Office, the Ministry, the Tax Administration, spends half-year calendar years for the previous year, etc. Report and control. The question arises with all this principle and the question so-called party disciplines. Could the ruling party allow its official to say some of the issues that may compromise the party due to non-compliance with the law, etc. take all the way to the end. Hardly. In particular, this is even more difficult if the authorities of the state administration who are dependent on the official of that party, such as the tax administration, such as the State Audit Office, and in such a context, we believe that the law requires that the relevant ministries are obliged to ensure the implementation of this law, and independent bodies must be in a position to control the business of these political parties and most of the public, this must be ensured through reports to the competent state authorities and the public on the supply, consumption and ultimately the total use of the funds and financial resources of political parties. Of course, in addition to all this, we would like to say first of all that a few questions should be considered which are essentially not included in the law, except that we mentioned the issue of independent MPs, the issue of refugees, etc. to the issue of financing political campaigns. The question is, in fact, how do we pass the Voluntary Law, and at the same time, we leave the issue of unresolved volunteer issues to this Law on political parties, and at the same time something that is difficult to implement or completely unclear is distanced. This is Article 3(3), which states of voluntary contributions to be given to political parties in the form of products or services, natural and legal persons, are generally obliged to make an account, etc. So there are no volunteers here from members of the political party who do it naturally by the nature of things without compensation and there is no need to express, for example, the price of their work... But if you hire someone who is not a member of the party, and he does it as a volunteer, then the question is whether to what extent this issue should be resolved. [[You don't understand.]] The other thing they'd like to notice, it's a question of the upper limit of resources for natural and legal persons. It's not good to put it out of your sleeve. We of the SDP advocate to introduce the principle and to bind it or to the average growth of wages in the Republic of Croatia as much as a natural person can achieve or with no average profit, etc. But not like this to prescribe that I don't know a legal person can give a million kunas a year, and a natural person can give up to 90 thousand kunas. I don't think that's good for a simple reason because we can actually put ourselves in a position to disrupt economic rationality among individual natural and legal persons because they want to contribute to the party's work. Of course, the question arises about the financial resources allocated from the state budget and which remain to the political party to which the MP belongs if the representative steps down from the political party. It's a very interesting solution, and then we've advocated from opposition to all these times in this term. But then, of course, there comes a special provision of the law, which nevertheless says it will be adequate, it says: "The provisions of this law apply accordingly to independent lists and independent MPs." Now this "i" suggests that an independent representative can be with an independent list and one who has just declared himself an independent representative. It is therefore possible to interpret the same law in two ways. That's not good. That question needs to be resolved. We advocate that, in fact, if someone is elected from a list of political parties then, of course, the financing of political parties on this basis is money belonging to a political party, and they cannot belong to a single representative. If we want to introduce the principle that we co-finance the work of legislators on the ground related to election units, etc. Then we must also install the Institute of Finance from the state budget of work in part of the MPs' duties, but then it is not the subject of this law but the subject of the Law on the Rights and Obligations of MPs in Parliament and, of course, the specific question of how and how this Parliament will report to the public and, of course, the holders of its lists, or its parties, in carrying out these issues. In particular, we point out an observation concerning the issue of tax reliefs which are indicated here and is practically opened with the question of the application of the Tax Act where donors can have reliefs, their tax base is reduced, but here it is not precise. The question remains, who's going to do it? That is why we believe that this issue should be resolved as well as the issue of ownership of funds and the acquisition of funds for the financing of political parties, especially when it comes to companies with majority ownership of state and local self-government units. The question arises whether it must always be 50% plus one share, or whether it should be brought down to shares that at least provide the share that is related to so-called. Gold stock 25% plus one share. We believe that this should also be resolved in this context, all of the issues and remarks that we make, which are the principle that individual natures are very important to us, until the second reading, to prepare the final draft of the law and will depend on how we vote on the final draft of the law. We support that this law goes into the process of aware of all its shortcomings, but also aware of one advantage because this area is finally being opened and that in the opening of legislative regulations of these areas with all these remarks and... and individual nature can come up with a solution that will in some way not only regulate better relations between political parties, political parties of Parliament, political parties of the executive authority, supervisory authorities, etc., but above all restore a higher level of trust between the electoral body and our citizens in the work and transparency of political parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77790	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77791	Col. Arlovic, your claim is somewhat incorrect that political parties' money spending control should include the purchase of council mandates. Yeah, but she has to be wider. It must include sometimes buying voters themselves as it happened on Vrbnik the Great before these re-elections where one party with 300 kuna directly two days before the elections bought voter favor. That's the way a party can't spend money. It's direct political corruption. The party can... money to address voters, to seek their trust, but not to buy votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77792	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77793	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am also correcting the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Arlovic, referring to Article 26. It is not only a problem on independent lists and independent representatives but the most machinations can come at the stage of a candidate who will not even pass on the lists. So the candidate should stand on independent lists, they do not have to be elected candidates, but for all of this unlawfully done if the money is washed they will not be sanctioned under the provisions of Article 26 unless that part is added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77794	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. National Minority Representatives' Club, respected Zdenka Chuhnil. Ladies and gentlemen! We are continuing the session and the debate on the proposal for a law on the financing of political parties. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77796	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear members, I wanted to tell the office, the central state office, so I ran out of words. My colleagues and colleagues! The National Minority Club supports the regulation of the flow and spending of political money. But we remain in the dilemma whether this could be resolved by the Law on Political Parties or if the Law on the financing of political parties is already proposed that there is no doubt that there is a need to regulate and finance the promotion because we believe that the new law and additional new laws that each will regulate with elections, in particular, the financing of the promotion or campaign financing will only make it more difficult to achieve and even less credibility or faith in politicians and politics themselves. But we want to show here that, as we represent minorities, we've dealt with what we're doing, what's going on in the countries of our origin, so let me just say a few words to make a comparison, and what exactly are some of our dilemmas? In fact, following the stage of democratic transition in Central and Eastern Europe in post-Communist countries that certainly differ according to national, historical, social, cultural, economic conditions, we can see that lately in all these countries, there has been an explosion of dissatisfaction with state democracy in general and political corruption often linked to political financing. In fact, more than 60% of the people in Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary are now dissatisfied with the state of democracy and are just assessing that politicians have contributed to a large part of it, and they, like us, are getting the lowest score. And therefore, in these countries too, laws that regulate the system of political financing, general policy costs, sources of political money and links between political financing and political corruption are being reviewed. The general conclusion is that in these countries, indeed, many party accounts are incorrect, incomplete, do not include political funding at local level. Modern campaigns where television, newspapers and posters or better say mass media the main means of such and political communication means not only in campaigns in such environments approach... He's really become necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in some countries due to the rapid rise in election costs, they set the upper limits which proved to be a failure in almost 2/3 of these post-Communist countries, which is because of the inflation that was there but also because of the independent groups that spend money on behalf of the political party or the already presidential candidate, depends on which campaigns are done and which parties are not controlled and limited, and what is required there at all is the definition and what are certain independent costs that the party can spend. Russian, Ukrainian and Polish examples have shown that restrictions are only limits when they are set at a low, very low level. Not only have they failed to contain the race as they call it the financial political armies but they have undermined confidence in the entire system of regulation of political finances, i.e. The rules made it difficult for them, and they made it harder to get real costs at all. And now they are also in the dilemma because the system of financing political parties that is until the 1990s as well as with us during the existence of a de facto one party exclusively any membership now has no more mass parties and by some estimates practically in the electoral body, let's say '99. And in 2000, in 4 Eastern European countries, all the party members in the elections were 2.8 and often not over 5%. And therefore, it is said that membership fees can not really amount to 10% of the funds needed for political financing. There are certainly many countries as well as what is now recommended by our law introduced, they call it a tax on functions or what our officials were appointed to be either elected paying strangers. Here, is that tax, tax, membership fee, mostly we have that system. But they've reached out to it, too. However, donations from individuals remain a practical foundation for the financing of these political parties, and normally, as a foundation, the political impact of just the financial donors on those making decisions has now been raised as an important problem. And I think that according to both that and our current regulation that we are now trying to do is on the right track, and really when I first saw that we were proposing amounts, maximum amounts and limits that a natural person could give 90,000 kunas or that could give a million kunas seemed high to me. But by following me, I say other people's experiences are actually maximum amounts and should be left behind as such. But the question of anonymous donations is raised. This law proposes that anonymous donations be completely banned. However, looking at many Western European countries' parties, they have just left small anonymous donations, giving them the opportunity to finance the parties and, say, certain parties have irrigated the main funds precisely with small anonymous donations that amounted to up to 100 euros. We should think about it, too, but as we immediately see the other side, what if one big donation breaks into small donations and we see the problem again, or we already see in advance, how the law could be played so that obviously that part that speaks of anonymous donations has at least for some time justification. We also support the ban in some way, or what is defined here, by who is not to donate by political parties, we think it is good, however, we support the thinking of some colleagues who have said earlier that they should be seen, that it is not companies that are mostly owned but that we really need to see what it is and 25% owned by the state plus one share when it can affect the decision and therefore affect the decision to donate large funds. I think that should take care of that too. And I want to draw attention to Article 26. The fact is that now independent advocates are being financed, like everyone else. However, I think it should be better defined. If we're talking about funding here, then it can stay like this, but then in the novel of the Political Party Act, we have to define the status of an independent representative who has to get some kind of legal personality so that he can have an office, too, we can have a fully open account that is controlled by how tax administration if we stay in this and audit, or I think the solution is that the control should only be done by the audit and not by the tax administration higher than by the possible influence exactly to the party again not to be "When you're sued, Kadija judges you.". So I think that these two things should be distinguished when it comes to control and I say here I am asking if it's already possible that Article 26. if he stays, but really that status is fully defined so that there won't be a constant crackdown here. Because we have de facto three kinds of independent agents. We have independent representatives who have come from independent political lists, we have minority representatives who, if run by an association of them, are automatically defined as independent and we have normally those who, in the course of work or after the constitution of parliament, become independent at that time. Therefore, it would also be important to think about how to define and exactly the independence that independent MPs refer to. And although it has been said here today that it is not coming, that it is not binding, namely by defining that the funds remain a political party if the agent passes into an independent or another party I do not think that the non-binding mandate is just leaving, because I do not think it leaves the right to the party or the mandate, that it is anti-constitutional to leave the party and the money, or that one is connected to the other, and that the constitutional provision of the non-binding mandate should not allow that he should not have the right to the money on the basis of which his mandate is, means he carries it with him and does not leave him to the parties. Here, in that spirit, I hope that you will appreciate our thinking and I say first and foremost to consider defining the legal status of the independent representative himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77797	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77798	Dear Mr. President, I must correct the imprecise allegation that this part of the money will remain foreign is not anti-constitutional because a representative as such on the list of parties has received a mandate in the Croatian Parliament or elsewhere and his term remains, there is no violation of the article of the Constitution but is only a matter of money which is logical to remain a party since that representative is essentially then betraying his party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77799	That's an opinion, that's a point of view. That's her point of view.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77800	And this is my point of view, but as a correction to an incorrect assumption. That's my point of view. It's not against the constitution, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77801	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77802	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! So at a time when corruption has affected all the pores of society, it is illusory to expect that there is no corruption in politics in Croatia. It exists and we at the Croatian Peasant Party club are convinced that it does not distinguish party colors. The promoter says that clear and precise commitments in the control of political party financing and the transparency of their funding are one way of reducing the possibility of corruption in politics. Indeed, it is one way and therefore this law does not mean that its adoption will solve this burning problem and start and end the fight against corruption in politics. We fear that it will serve to cloud citizens' eyes at this pre-election time and that corruption will continue to rule this country. In this respect, we do not want to argue that it is not necessary by law to correct both the way in which the funding is financed and the mechanisms of control, both income and spending of funds passing through political parties. Citizens must know who and how much funding the political party has to finance so that they can realistically assess how independent any party is of the owner of the capital and how much it will be able to represent the interests of the citizens. In pre-election time, all parties compete in strong promises of service to the interests of the general good, i.e. Citizens and after the election, the obligation to repay their financial debts in various services that are in the interest of the owner of the capital but to the detriment of the citizens. After that, citizens are disappointed in politics and politicians, and they manifest their dissatisfaction by failing to go to the polls. This is the most harmful realization to the harm of themselves because it enables just those who did not want to lead the state on behalf of the people. I think we need to ask ourselves why so few citizens have confidence in politics and politicians. We saw it in the paper this morning, 1.7%. The search for an answer will be supported by Stjepan Radić, who wrote in the Christmas calendar for 1912 that real and fair policy is the hardest job in the world and politicians or as he says gentlemen must not be over the people, they must not be masters to the people but must live and work with the people and be people's officials. Although it will be reluctant to hear but we must ask ourselves how much politics today is, how many politicians today and fellow MPs are we, too, are the people's representatives, how much we have become from the people. We're convinced there's a fundamental reason for mistrust. Politicians and politicians have also disappointed the people in whom they swear. We have disappointed him even when we assure him that we live well, only we don't know it as well as when various political markets have changed their will in the elections. The people are also disappointed when the political will of politicians and not the peoples comes to social dissociation by the enormous wealth of the minority and the poverty of the majority. He is also disappointed when the judiciary is not in the service of justice and law but in the service of politics and political power of individual politicians. Such policies and such politicians are not trusted by anyone or even those who currently benefit from their present favor because they know that affection is temporary and hesitant. My colleagues and colleagues today's policy has lost their true purpose and purpose, and that is the welfare of man. It is not in the service of man, but in the service of capital and groups that hold that capital. More and more common is the word political pragmatism. And the result of political pragmatism is the mistrust of most people. Pragmatically, political pragmatism brings well-being to smaller groups of stakeholders and damage to most. Politics must be in the service of the fair needs of the majority. Where did a man disappear from the center of political thinking? If we had come to political thinking, we would not have easily raised our hands here, for example, to introduce that famous health tax, whose introduction of the poorest prevents the use of health services. At that time, it would not be easy to raise hands for the rejection of a law that should remove the injustice committed by pension reform, so-called “retirement. ” New pensioners. It would not be easy to raise hands or to accept state budgets that are being pushed further into poverty, pushed across the region. And it would not be easy to raise your hand, nor to change the formula for harmonising pensions with an average pension paid by the formula compared to the average salary paid from 44.71% to only 39%. If the motive for our decision had been the well-being of man then it could not have happened that according to some surveys last year, it was now reduced but last year it was as much as 70% of the population of the Republic of Croatia on the poverty threshold. It's a social center. Poverty is the consequence of politics without man. At the same time, with the poverty of most minorities, the result of a policy that put capital in the centre of its interest instead of man. In order for citizens to know under the influence of whose capital is a single political party and whose interest in implementing their policy will protect the good news is that this bill is ahead of us. However, this law will not protect us from the corruption of individuals. We find it hard to believe the full corruption of all parties but the corruption of individuals in politics is very visible, but unfortunately hard to prove. It is particularly dangerous when a corrupt individual is a high-ranking party and becomes a senior official in the conduct of high authority. Then it comes to the position of creating and proposing both political decisions and legislative projects and the rule of party obedience guarantees the unnecessarily acceptance of the proposed, regardless of the whiteness that it is not in the function of the general good. And as long as they do not remove corruption from politics, there is no return to citizens' confidence in politics. And the behaviour of the current executive authority doesn't want that. That they don't want the best is an indication of all those events after the 2005 local elections. Corruption, blackmail, pressures changed the will of the citizens. Although there is no accurate record but it is certain that never since 1990, so many elected councilmen who changed party colors overnight have not been recorded. It was traded for mandates, the media mentioned hundreds of thousands and millions of kunas. Unfortunately, the competent authorities and institutions have not done their job knowingly. But it wasn’t only corrupt in 4 eyes, which is really hard to prove. It was corrupt through written and signed agreements and the state government kept silent. Not only did she keep her own decisions and supported the apparent corruption of certain council members until then that she declared the legal purgatory overthrow of the president of the municipal councils, explaining that the president-in-Office of the Council had not torn his chair out of his hands. In such policies and in such politicians, the people can't trust whatever they look like and what the Law on the financing of political parties looks like. So this law is really trying to restore citizens' trust with transparency of funding. However, under today’s conditions, we must ask ourselves, Is a million kunas a little too much? A million kuna binds someone. The one who gives a million kunas and asks for something from the one he gives to. 90,000 kunas for a natural person also in our terms a lot, one that gives 90 kuna, 90 thousand kuna is also asking for a favor. So until the second reading, we expect more realistic insight into the circumstances in which we live and examine these really high amounts. Furthermore, Article 15 says this, and says this: "The financing of political parties by the parties is prohibited," and now the last indent here also says: "the natural and legal persons against whom the procedure for the collection of the accomplished and outstanding obligations towards the Republic of Croatia, or according to the unit of local and regional self-government," is prohibited. And the next item says that any contributions paid to the political party's account from illicit sources is due to the political party immediately report to the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance. How will the political party know who he is, who he owes someone to? This item would simply not be implemented in practice and we expect until the second reading to be considered and at least more detailedly arranged on, so that it could be applied at all, so that we can know which way and how it will be controlled. And also earlier on, business control must be carried out by independent bodies, and not by those who are very dependent on the current ruling policy. So the Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club in the first reading will support this Bill proposal by expecting comments to be considered and accepted by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77803	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77804	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague has made so many incorrect allegations that it's impossible to correct everything. I would only correct this one, he says, "And further this country will be ruled by corruption which is absolutely not true." This government has taken a number of measures to reduce corruption from the Treasury, from internal audit of offices and bodies, from the control of the procurement process, the control of public procurement, the fight against corruption and crime also includes measures, the collection of land books, the improvement of tax control. She also said that we have 70% of the population below the poverty line which is absolutely not true. According to the indicators, 11% of Croatia's population is below the poverty line, about 22,000 per year, something below the border, not as deep as in other countries where this percentage is 15% in our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77805	Second Amendment, Honorable Representative Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77806	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague said a few incorrect allegations and I'll try to correct two. Veli, I quote: "The passing of this law will serve to cloud citizens, and corruption will continue to rule this country.". And others: "The current political authorities don't want it. They don't want to deal with the fight against corruption.". It's incorrect for both colleagues. Given that the government has adopted the Anti-Corruption Strategy, and this law is envisioned by the strategy. The proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties also testifies to strong commitment, seduction of the rule of law in this country. It's true, not what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77807	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77808	Well, Article 209 was injured. The rules of procedure, given that correcting the correct quotations are incorrect. Well, like the percentage of poverty, 70% is the findings of the Center for Social Science of the Church to a colleague. And as far as the allegations of colleagues are concerned, it is also evident from the public opinion. From the public opinion of citizens who only 1.7% trust politicians and 92% believe that corruption rules the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77809	A colleague of Lalic's. Don't, please, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You made certain claims. The representative challenged these claims, he found that they were not correct. It's a classic case of the institute correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77810	Well, Mr. President, it's a quote, not an opinion. And colleagues keep correcting their opinions, not a quote... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77811	You didn't quote anyone. You said yours, that you said a quote and that's another thing, right? Then there would be a correction to someone else's quote, then you wouldn't be. Okay. And respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77812	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am also disturbed by Mrs. Lalic's finding that corruption will continue to rule this country. That's really not true. Corruption does not rule this country nor will it, given this government which has also adopted the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption 2006/2008. A year. A committee has been established, so the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Restraint Programme. The head of the National Council is therefore the president of the opposition. But she would also remind Ms. Lalic, their pre-election promises to solve the problem of corruption, their National Programme, which they brought in 2002, and should have established a commission based on the programme. But they didn't want to do it. Therefore, no commission was established. If they wanted to, corruption could have been stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77813	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77814	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's hard in this tunnel in the middle of the dark to find a little light in the tunnel where a colleague, a black chronicle lives, but here's a few of her quotes. Citizens live well but they don't know it. So I can say that citizens know very well how they live, and that politicians are just trying to convince them otherwise. So when we say the HSS organizes blocking the country by tractors, two and a half tractors come in, which is obviously a lot of success. Furthermore, says a colleague, corruption in politics is visible but has not been proven. Well, that's not true. The state's attorney's office is dealing with the Coning case, the Marinovi-Anticevic family, the Lenac case, the Rijeka Bank, the Europatrol, I hope that Lidl will do the same. But here's a series of tycoons that ended up in prison, and as far as I'm concerned, I can stay there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77815	Thank you. We're going to individual debates. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77816	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and fellow MPs. How do I feel about the bill on the financing of political parties, how did it come to Parliament, how did it come to Parliament? So I think it's about the law comparing it to the Health Protection Act as if it regulates rights, and patients, patients while they're healthy, and not regulate patients' rights when they're sick. Here's why, here's why. So in the bill of law, there is no independent control body that can control in real political time when it happens, when donations, financing or corruption occur. No newspaper is to be controlled by the State Audit or the Ministry of Finance. It's simply nothing new, because until now, the State's audit has been in place. The Council of the Republic of Croatia's Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. That's true so far. But as in the world, as in the world of the corruption affair, they never revealed themselves while the party was in power, nor when it happened to Cole in Germany, nor when it happened in Japan because of the Lokid affair, nor when it happened to Miterano, but when those political parties came down from power. So because of this law and this proposal, it won't be the case of "Brodosplit" or "Liburnia Riviera Hotels" of the affair, or "Carlovia" of the affair, or "Lance", if of course it was, of course not "Lance". But it's important to get rid of the current ones like "Verona" or "Brodosplit." Let's go back a little bit. Why is it at all, and historically it is a young phenomenon that political parties are financed from the public sector, from public money. It's not long before it's introduced as a rule in South America first and then in Europe. Simply because politics is a public activity of general interest, and until the parties are financed transparently as they like to be said and not finance public money, they are subject to the influence of capital. So they form a policy towards donations and interests of capital. And what does this law suggest? It suggests that one political party in the mandate can, one legal person who was spoken of by Pero Kovacevic, finance an unlimited amount. There's no limit. 4 million really legal persons can be given in one term, and then his daughters, etc. So there's no limit. We address our citizens with form and say we are fighting corruption. What kind of corruption? 4 million who, in one term plus that is not regulated by the area of election campaign then we are really ordering Europe, we are not ready to deal with corruption, we offer the law as a form only. Another phenomenon. Step back, this law is a step back. The applicable law has banned donations from abroad. This law, the bill provides for the prohibition of donation to legal persons, etc. but leaves that citizens of foreign countries, citizens can donate political parties to our country. For what? What kind of interest is that? Give me an indication of who you are proposing that they will donate Croatian political parties to foreign citizens. Why did you leave out in the proposal to prohibit donations to foreign citizens, political parties of another country. If we're already fighting corruption, why leave a peach through which you can banish all the money laundering. Why if it was a good intention? ... We can talk about the experience, let's take the classmates' bills, and we'll see, no problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When compiling financial reports. Even so, financial reports have had to be drawn up and delivered to the State Audit and to the Assembly, to the Assembly. So there's no newspaper. The news is that these financial reports must be placed on the party's website. But respected colleagues, it's important that everything goes on in the accounts of a legal person. The bill does not state that business must be realised in one account or must be reduced to one account. One legal person, one responsible person within the legal person on the applicable law, on financial business, but this is not here. ... It's not one account, not even in HDZ. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you see it's not, I know it's not. Therefore, if the proposer wanted to send a message to fight corruption then he should have predicted that business must be managed through one account, all donations do not matter whether they are anonymous or not have to end up on account, it must be independent control in real political time, it must be punishment immediately and not post-festum when power is won because then punishment does not come and if it is an independent body we already have an electoral state such as it is called, an electoral commission, why don't we trust him with financial control of the political parties' actions. Why should we reserve this for the finance minister who is indeed only the contractor of the will of the political party from which he comes, that is by definition. It's by definition a politically completely dependent person is the finance minister. It depends on the will of the head of his party and on the Prime Minister. Mr. President, you know that very well. You know very well what political addiction means. ... Tell them out loud to hear the citizens, not me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm speaking out loud to you. Therefore, this bill does not solve the problem that you wanted to solve according to the announcements, it is a step back in the transparency of business and financing of political parties because it does not ensure repeated, independent control in real time policy, allowing donations to foreign citizens of one and the other countries for no reason, without reason and as far as financing political election campaigns is concerned, there is no word about it, and the subsequent application to independent, so on. The independent candidates have not been solved at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77817	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77818	I would correct the inaccuracy of my colleague Lek in the sense that this law towards him is a step backwards because it allows the financing of political parties by legal and physical persons of foreigners. However, Article 15 explicitly states that foreign legal persons, foreign political parties from abroad, cannot be financing political parties in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77819	What are we going to do about it, legalize the throw? ... I'm warning the man. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let me warn you about your pitching. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77820	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm sure you can quote what I said. So I hope you can do what you can. I was not talking about legal persons but about natural persons, therefore to the citizens of foreign states, and my colleague did not say it as the Rules of Procedure say but rather something else, so he violated the provision of Article 214(2), which warns you about the Rules of Procedure that you must give him notice. The Rules of Procedure warn you of that, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77821	So if the representative who corrected the incorrect allegations in your opinion presented the reasons not to correct the incorrect assumption, to refer to something else, would that mean a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that would mean giving a warning to that representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77823	It wouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77824	Read Article 214(2), Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77825	It wouldn't be like that. You wouldn't do that, thank you very much, nothing more. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77826	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think there's any need for this kind of anxiety because the public will think that this law doesn't suit you, and we're all happy that one law is coming. And now if you show such anxiety then it will turn out that you are against this law that prevents corruption in political parties. ... So let it be reduced, let it be reduced, let it be reduced. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It'll always be, but let it shrink, but it'll look like you don't like it. So you don't need such irony, you don't need to laugh so...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77827	All right, colleagues, please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77828	I've listened nicely, I think if you're nervous...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77829	... Something irritated, disturbed, or what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't agree with that? You will react otherwise. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77830	Here, you've already taken this quote correction board, and I haven't even started talking. ... This law will certainly, surely, make better conditions for financing political parties, it is undeniable. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The fact that some people have some kind of grudge, that's why we have our first reading. Therefore, the first reading, should not be so nihilistic towards him and not recognise the good will or desire of this government to improve the conditions in Croatia regarding the financing of political parties, but it would be logical for us all to improve this Law together, and not only to criticise him because we are currently not in power and what the party or most want one law that was not so far, we now want to propose it to the Parliament to adopt it. There have been problems in other transition countries with the financing of political parties both in Poland and in the Czech Republic and Bulgaria, as well as with us. There have been problems in developed countries, both France and Germany and England, you all know that. You know, there was recently an example that a gentleman paid me around 100,000 euros to get on the list in one party to come to the Parliament. How come he didn't make it on that list to the Parliament then sued that party to pay him back, right? That's the same thing, our citizens don't know much, but that's the way it is. The man gave money to get a seat in the Parliament. Since only one passed, he asked for his money back. You all remember what it's called and... The existing Law on political parties allows political parties to receive donations, however, there are no restrictions in terms of limiting the amount and frequency of financial giving and giving in goods and services. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So this Law determines exactly how much a natural person can give, how much a legal person can give. So the amount can be a million kunas the largest or 90 thousand kunas. And here some also said if it's a lot is it small. Depends on who gives. Someone's $90,000 is a lot, someone's not. So it's the same relative. Under this Act, all political parties are obliged to publicly show their origin, which is important, the way in which the funds they have raised in that calendar year and have to make a final account and a financial report and publish it on the website. So that's already positive, it's good that it's going to be public, that it's going to be how nice you say it transparently, and it doesn't need to be nervous about it now. You're going to have to show me how much you've spent. I think this law, which will certainly improve, will ultimately make a major shift in the reduction of corruption in Croatia, and will introduce order among political parties in the financing of political parties. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77831	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77832	... Mr. President. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleague has intonated his entire performance here as if he were talking to me, and I have no intention at all to represent anyone here but himself, thereby injuring the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, the provision of Articles 214 and 209, and Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament had no need to draw his attention to the public, to you, to the Parliament, and not to me personally. My personal position in the Croatian Parliament is of no importance except for the citizens I represent here, so in this sense you should use the Rules of Procedure and warn the MP not to polarise with colleagues but with a proposal or with something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77833	So now we're going to go to determine that a representative is not allowed in communication and dialogue with another representative to address that other representative and that it would be, Mr. Leco, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Because MP Zubovic spoke in his address, which was directed towards you, and this should be a violation of the Rules of Procedure? A breach of the spirit of the Rules of Procedure? That's amazing right now. That's just amazing. That's what I'm saying is that it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because it's just amazing that something like that can be claimed in the first place that it would be a dialogue with a representative in order to be about it being illegal, that it's a business order of the Rules of Procedure. Well, you have it every day, every day you personally have it. Each of the MPs has to refer to another representative and pollomise with his claims, he said. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77834	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, colleagues and colleagues. The National Anti-Corruption Programme adopted by this Parliament established the obligation to adopt the Law on the financing of political parties and certainly it is good that it is, it is good above all, and because of us who are in politics, and above all because of the public, I would say the wrong ideas in the public which we first created, and we here in the Parliament are also accusing each other often and unargumented and we created a picture of politicians as people who are corrupt from a to ž regardless of the political struggle or option. That is why I absolutely support the adoption of this Law, which will certainly not prevent, nor has such a law been passed that has prevented everything in society. So there wouldn't be any justice, no judiciary, and then no lawyer, so there wouldn't be any big profits. I support Article 4 in the total amount of voluntary contributions from both individuals and natural and legal persons, whether 90 thousand kuna is a lot, whether a million kunas are a lot, I personally think it is. By the second reading and from the discussion of the other fellow MPs, the promoter will surely find a measure that would be acceptable to everyone. I also welcome the ban on receiving voluntary contributions from unnamed, anonymous sources and, if this happens, political parties are obliged to report it to the State Audit Office. Also, as regards the financing of political parties and the resources of the state budget, I don't remember whether anyone here said it, and here I will be free to say it to me personally for the regular annual financing of political parties is provided in the state budget of 0.056% of the funds. This would also be good for me if Article 12 on the financing of the budget of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government did not also determine the way of financing in Article 7, so that the political parties in the units of local self-government from the smallest municipalities to the counties. Of 0,056% in my opinion, I will personally say that this is really, really small and that this is exactly the way of funding and such a small amount encourages people to then do some legal unauthorized transactions. 0.056% per 10 million kuna is 5 thousand kuna, 5 thousand kuna for funding not one, but for all political parties in one municipality, and 90% of our municipalities have a budget of up to 10 million kuna. Surely, and we know that we love politics all of us to deal with, so we have in the municipality, regardless of the political option of three thousand inhabitants, we have 14 political parties in the elections and two, three independent lists, so I think that the chief and everyone should be an artist, and also the party president who will finance the political party's work, I don't think he can finance any poster out of it. I propose that there be at least 0,056, and that the proposal also establishes the upper limit of funding for political parties in both the state and local self-government units that this simply cannot survive. In Article 9, in the case of the association of two or more political parties, the financial resources allocated pursuant to Article 9 of this Act belong to a political party which is a legal successor. I wonder what if the legal follower of a party that has ceased to act, what if those parties that have ceased to act after a certain time are re-established, and I am saying so from experience. In our county, one political party stopped acting, joined with another party, and now the same political party is being re-established. Do they have the right to repay those funds that their councilmen deserve or do they remain the political party with whom they have teamed up? It's simply because it's clear and clear that we're not getting to the lower levels of vague situations. Article 10 of the sub-represented sex I personally advocate that it be even more, perhaps 20%, and that as much of the sub-represented sex as possible, in our case it is a woman in the vast majority, the local self-government unit and the state being rewarded with larger funds. In Article 11 of the Decision on the allocation of funds three months in equal amounts. I wonder why three months if it can be a month because we can have a specific case of the 10th month election, and we at the end of the calendar year at 12 months, so we get the funding for that quarter, and then when they need all the political parties the most, then we can't get it. If that budget allows, I think the monthly tranche is best for the financing of political parties. This appropriation is intended to cover: I, please, allow me to be wrong about this branch, I know that many political parties have branches at lower levels, so I think it would be more appropriate for them to be present at the jury of the political party's organisation, and as they are organised, whether through branches, organisations, regional offices or something else, but the organisation that is more general and that it would be better for me. For action, Article 14 which is strictly linked to the political activity of the party, the political parties to Article 8 of this Act shall be entitled to tax relief under the provisions of this Act as a non-profit organisation. I personally think, if this percentage of political party financing remains and the Law on the financing of non-profit organisations does not change that many political parties at lower levels will form an association of HDZ or SDP lovers. So it will avoid this way of financing these funding with such a small amount because as an association of citizens, it will certainly be more participating in the budget. That's the topic for the debate and for the promoter until the second reading. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. page of the political party. I wonder to what level of political party? Whether to the level of central, county, city or municipal because many political parties at lower levels do not have a web. pages? Is it an obligation to have to work the web. the page to publish its financial report referred to in paragraph 2 of this Act. I finally welcome the adoption of this law and certainly will support it as such in the second reading and with these corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77835	Thank you. Honorable representative Antun Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77836	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Croatia and Sweden are the only countries in Europe that do not have the Law on the financing of political parties and election campaigns. In Sweden, however, it is unlike Croatia's trust in politicians and their responsibility at such a level that such laws are not necessary. On the contrary, on the list of corruption and according to the study of public change in Croatia, unfortunately, the judiciary is the first place, and on the second political party. Almost 90% of Croatian citizens believe that we need the Law on the financing of political parties and that the law requires that we regulate this matter for both parties and for so-called parties. independent lists and independent candidates. Citizens view it as necessary first because they think that political parties are given donations in exchange for business counter-services or thus buying a mandate rather than supporting some political idea or programme. And that's our reality. As a result, and obvious examples of purchases in a store of political trade, it is necessary to adopt a Law on the financing of political parties. It is certain that political parties need funds and unfortunately money in certain parties replaces the enthusiasm and flight of people's movements to act for unselfish reasons, for reasons of working for the general good in the parties. Citizens are simply amazed by numerous examples of political trade. Let's just remember the Great Gorica, the Karlovac with the contract signed. So by material proof of payment, let us remember Požega, Dubrovnik and other examples. Obviously, behind the scenes of democratic institutions power can be bought and sold by rough, naked corruption or more subtle financial assistance to parties and so on. Independent candidates. As a member of the SDP, I am grateful to the party that I am also thanks to the party but certainly also to the voters elected to the Croatian Parliament, but I and my colleagues have no other privileges in the party. However, from our own resources we finance the party and our contribution of 10% of the salary seems to be the biggest contribution party officials pay in favour of the party. This would be paid by the members of the SDP, and this would in some way be the answer of counterpart Cain, who in a negative context spoke of SDP financing, mentioning the majority of the cakes the party receives on the basis of the number of mandates won. I would remind him that in Istria more than 50% of the funding from the county budget when it comes to political parties going to IDS and in cities and municipalities an even bigger amount. I hope honestly that after future local elections that this relationship in the Istrian County will change in favour of the SDP. Dishonoring trade is unfortunately in the case of a number of political parties and candidates on the electoral lists, and that this unfair trade would certainly prevent us from needing clear rules to finance political parties and election campaigns and, of course, more than that, the honesty of the candidates participating in the political game. In my opinion, being honest means that elected candidates do not take advantage of public authority for a personal breakthrough, that they do not favour those who assist candidates personally or political parties. It is clear that the higher the financial dependence of the sponsors' parties. That is certainly and more likely to be said again by some candidates and some parties because it is not necessary to generalise that they will represent the special interests of those who finance them and to the detriment of general interest. It is good that many institutions of civil society have been very active in Croatia, although the public has warned against the fact that in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, for example, dead souls and civil society institutions have also voted for numerous abuses in campaign financing, while at the same time warning of the need for legal regulation of spending and the way they are collected, and I would add that this control is necessary both in a number of civil society institutions and cannot be exculpated from control. Danger for Croatia, a country of young democracy, a country in which we are often prepared to call upon the doctrine of faith and faith teaches us morality, honesty, justice, justice, and unfortunately the country of the believers is ruled by nepotism, bribery, corruption, crime and often robbery. And then how do you interpret it? We refer to the teaching of faith and live a life contrary to the science of faith. It's simply inexplicable for me. And for me, if you want to be as agnostic as I am, I'm still trying to live maximum in accordance with the science of good and the science of faith is good. I'm not talking about church science. And because of these and such circumstances and facts that are unquestionable, the Law on the financing of political parties needs us. The control of the inflows and outflows of funds on political parties' accounts is essential. The State Audit, not the Ministry of Finance, is undermining not the Ministry of Finance must do its job in both political parties and concrete conclusions must arise from the work done. It cannot happen, for example, in the case of state audit findings on conversion and privatisation that the government imagine a report pointing to robbery and dishonesty in the transformation of the government takes note. The Council Assembly of Europe has consistently insisted on developing international legal standards, regulating the financing of political parties. When Europe needs it for Croatia, it is a terrible need. I'm not saying this law is the best, it's in the first reading, it can be rereaded and repaired. They were given here on the side of clubs and representatives of certain concrete remarks. I believe the proposer will install them in the final draft of the law. And I would also like to say, this is what Mr. Jozo Radoš said on behalf of the club that in Croatia it is not often a problem of good and bad laws but of their implementation, and I am afraid that this case will be exactly the same with this law, however, along with the work that is possible and for which I expect it to happen until the second reading, I personally support the adoption of a law which, even if to any extent, will improve a situation that is simply not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77837	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77838	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who literally said that his political party, therefore the SDP, is solely financing from membership fees, from 10% of the salary they as state officials in the SDP. That's just not true. It is not a fact, and it is clear to all that the SDPs, like other parliamentary political parties, are included in the funding system by the number of mandates won, which are important and very large and high sources of funding, including your parties, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77839	counterpart Tomljanovic, MP Perusko, did not say that the SDP is financed exclusively from 10%. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77840	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct an incorrect assumption when Mr. Peru said it was often repeated in this Croatian Parliament as in Herzegovina they voted dead and we know who they voted for. Well, sir, the other day it was proven... to receive that request has been rejected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that some people wanted to get the HDZ to be voted by the dead at the head of the GONG doesn't make any difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77841	Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77842	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you mentioned some units of local self-government in which there were irregularities in the elections, but also after the election, an impeccable trade in terms of mandates, crossings from one side to the other, etc. But a respected colleague and friend of Peru, what Mr. Cain said is true and it is good that the IDS of the 1990s took responsibility for Istria, which also contributed to the progress of democratic Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77843	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77844	Well, fellow Poirot, I was saying, you probably weren't in the hall when your colleague Cain spoke. He was saying, I'm not saying whether he's okay or not for Istria and Croatia. I never said it wasn't good that the IDS didn't show up. In fact, I believe that he contributed to the democratic atmosphere in Croatia but he spoke in a peri-curious manner in terms of SDP financing as a large party and in this context I only tried to respond to my colleague Cain because I did not want to report because he spoke on behalf of the club, I did not have the opportunity to correct the allegations and it seemed to me that it was deplaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77845	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77846	Thank you, Mr. President. When I saw that in the agenda for this session of the Parliament, I was pleased to see the Law on the financing of political parties. The reaction is, and yet something is moving from that corruption prevention program, let something happen, I guess something is going to fix it, and even if it's under pressure, we know under whose pressure, we know that the entire corruption control program is also formulated according to certain pressures from abroad, and that one of the major objections was the lack of this law, so here's the law now written, came to us first reading. And all this is good in the fight against corruption and partocracies as one of the fundamentals, I am convinced of the basic sources of corruption not only in Croatia, everywhere where this kind of partyocracy has been the cause of corruption for 16 years in Croatia. This law should help the partytocracy to be one of the levers of power, which is money, money for financing, black money, gray money, money coming from various places, and in various ways, the government may be less. That's why it made me happy that it came on the agenda. However, when I read the text of the law, I saw that it was okay to read first, it would be fixed until the second reading, etc. But it seems to me that there are more dubious things to say not to say nebulosis than to solve issues. Well, it's kind of a clean illustration. In Article 4, I do not know from what logic the amount of donations made to possible political parties is 90,000 natural persons, a million legal persons. I don't know about legal persons, I don't have my own company, I don't know which firm it's easy to give a million kunas. I guess there aren't many, but let's just say there are. But the promoter should look himself in the mirror and ask himself, "I'm a very well-paid civil servant or a state official." Would I give my stranger 90 thousand kunas every year or one year? I wouldn't give my party because I have nowhere to give 90 thousand kuna. And I suppose most state officials, senior civil servants who are significantly above the average income and standards of Croatian citizens, can't do that. So when you propose such figures, I think you should keep in mind the simple fact of who can do it and why it's done, who it counts on, who's going to be who's going to give 90 thousand kuna. Article 9 legalises what the Croatian People's Party has asked the Committee on Justice and this Parliament to give an interpretation of the Law on Political Parties, i.e. that the money that serves the financing of political parties does not serve the financing of MPs but to multilateral, democracy and the development of political parties. Now it's legal as we claimed it was the intensity and the Law on political parties, i.e. if the agent leaves the party does not carry the money with him. Because the money he got from the party list, not on his pretty eyes. So if he leaves the party the money stays where he is, where he originally came from. On the other hand, it is said that these provisions will be adequately applied to independent lists or independent representatives. We're gonna have to really explain this one time. Mrs. Chuhnil talked about it. There are three kinds of MPs we're talking about as independents, which aren't really. Independent representatives, or independent, of how the law formulates them, are those who have made their own names and names on the lists in the electoral unit, usually this constituency. Independent MPs are not representatives who, after the election, have declared themselves so independent and are not in love with the party on whose list they are elected. These are the people who fell out of one political option, came out of that option, dissidents whatever you want to call them. But they're not independent. Because they did not enter the Croatian Parliament by their own name. Likewise, independent representatives are not representatives of minorities, national minorities. They are the number one proposed by certain minority associations, so in a different way than the other MPs and have been elected to the constituency where 50 votes can be chosen theoretically. Or 100 votes. So they are not as independent as, as independent representatives who simply made their list, went to the elections and passed the elections. It is unclear in Article 12 that these provisions will be applied accordingly at local level. Mr. Wolfie said something about it. It is absolutely impossible for these percentages to operate on the budgets of local self-government or regional self-government. I think the law here should leave freedom to local and regional self-government and simply promote that funding by local and regional self-government will be decided on by the relevant acts of local and regional self-government. I don't think this just doesn't say that things will be defined properly. I personally find it unclear in Article 14 what does that mean? The parties are defined as non-profit organisations which then have tax reliefs. The parties do not earn money in a kind of market sense that they may have tax breaks, not pay profit tax or anything like that. Does this mean that the parties will be returned to VAT for what they spent on their political work? They bought half a ton of paper, and now they're gonna get their VAT back. I don't know. I just don't know what that means. I think it's unclear. If it means anything, you should explain what it means. Article 15 discusses a ban on financing, who is not allowed to finance all political parties. I don't understand why political parties are allowed, and if it's true that everything that is not prohibited by law is allowed why political parties in Croatia are allowed to finance foreign, foreign natural persons, so foreign citizens? So they can finance, they can't be banned anywhere. And on the other hand, all of our parties or at least most of them are part of some European associations of parties that help us, all of us and the popular party and the Social Democratic and Liberal Party help us in a variety of ways. The help channel for educational activities has remained open. And these foreign legal entities can also finance our educational activities. If it's just going to stay so defined, I'm afraid it's going to come up with a variety of turrets, stretching ideas, and under the notion of education we'll all live for why we eventually get money from the liberal international you from the regiment or how things work. Article 16 discusses political racket and political corruption. It is interesting that all possible violations of this complete law on registration, non-reporting, bookkeeping and similar sanctions are sanctioned by transitional, final provisions. But a political racket, a promise and then payment of political debt, so the biggest crime and immorality in politics, clientelism related to corruption, is not even trying to sanction the criminal provisions of the law. That's what gets the citizens the most. The citizens of Karlovac County are most affected by the waiting in Kristina. Kristina is a place near Karlovac where she comes to wait for the services of a local political power. This law does not sanction. Until such things are sanctioned, it is hard to believe that the real intention of this, of this legal text, is in the form that we are being pictured and suggested to contain corruption. All in all, it's good that things are moving. But if the expression stays the way it is now, I'm afraid it's not going anywhere, or it's going the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77847	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77848	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am, in the introduction, I would like to point out two basic reasons why, which is why this bill really needs what the obituaries say to support. One and a fundamental and first fundamental in the provisions of Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes that, of course, the establishment of political parties is freely but also that the position and financing of political parties is regulated by law. The most important provision in terms of the proposed law is actually a constitutional imperative that says political parties must, therefore, publicly account for the origin of their assets and their assets. In this context, special attention should be paid to three elements, and all three are contained in the proposal itself. The first is therefore a ban on anonymous donations. Second, determining the amount of donations allowed. And third, transparent and clear transparent and easily verifiable supervision of the permitted way of financing political parties. Another point to be highlighted in the opening section, and in terms of support for legal solutions, so to the National Programme, to combat corruption in the period from 2006/2008. The obligation to adopt a special Law on the financing of political parties, which will prescribe possible sources of funding for political parties, has also been established, and is closer to setting aside the appropriations in such a way as to build on the best practice of the European Union countries. A clear and precise commitment in controlling the financing of political parties and the transparency of their funding, and this is indeed one way to reduce the possibility of corruption in politics. Furthermore, the reference to the proposed law in support of the proposed legislative decisions should certainly be made in the direction of the discussion of Article 28 which regulates that the provisions of Chapter 3 shall cease to apply by way of effect of this law, hence the means for the work of political parties of the existing Political Party Act. This law regulates, as a special regulation, not only the way in which the political parties work but also the sources, the conditions of acquisition of funds, and the supervision of the use of them. In this respect, it is necessary to support those provisions which, in a clear, easily verifiable and equal manner, regulate this matter for all subjects. This regulation is exactly the normative framework for the financing of political parties to take place in exactly that way. In fact, political parties are also declared by this regulation as non-profit associations, and their income can be obtained either from membership fees, voluntary revenues, publishing activities, sales of propaganda material, organisation of party events and from property owned. It can, of course, also be financed from budgetary resources, but under the conditions laid down by law and always and exclusively for the achievement of the objectives set out in the programme and the statutes of the political party. As one of the most important provisions in this law, in any case, I see Article 5 which is, in fact, a prohibition in the sense of banning the receipt of voluntary contributions but from anonymous sources, therefore, from unknown sources. No secrecy shall be allowed in terms of the provision of funds, and at any time under the threat of sanctions, it must be known who is at what level and how the political party is financed. When these provisions are added to the provisions governing the limits of financial resources allowed for funding in one calendar year, we really get one quality legal framework and transparent conditions of financing of political parties. Also legal solutions, which are taxed by entities which prohibit funding from political parties in the Republic of Croatia, and particularly by the legal solution that concerns both natural and legal persons who are in relation to debt to either the Republic of Croatia, whether according to the unit of local and regional self-government operated by the political party, are of a kind of quality solution. As regards supervision of financial operations, the proposed solution is that the State Office also implements the audit and the Ministry of Finance and, therefore, within the framework of the Ministry of Finance, the bodies within the Ministry of Finance, so the Tax Administration. It is also intended to support a solution that indicates that the provisions of this law apply accordingly to independent lists and independent representatives. Given the fact that this is the first reading, I propose that in Article 23, which prescribes a fine for a violation, or for a natural and legal person who has paid a voluntary contribution to a political party, I suggest that the political party be separated, and therefore, in the other way, define criminal liability, especially for a natural person, and especially for a legal person and especially for a responsible person within the legal basis. In this regard, it is necessary to regulate criminal sanctions in the usual manner as established, as criminal liability is established. It is also proposed in Article 24 that the political party that collects or spends in a way, money in a way contrary to the provisions of this law, money or funds to be taken away and paid into the state budget. It may be necessary to consider the possibility of funding, because in such a situation at the level of the unit of local self-government to see the possibility, the ability to deposit such funds is precisely at the expense of the unit of local self-government in the context of such situations. Of course, the very important provision that is absolutely to be accepted is actually contained in Article 4 and its intensity and meaning. So if a single representative or representatives after the constitution because it is a Croatian Parliament, we have two situations, abandon or change membership in the political party the financial resources allocated belong to or remain to the political party to which the representative belonged but at the time of the establishment of the Croatian Parliament. I mean an extremely important newspaper, or an extremely important proposed institute, but which should, in any case, be an obstacle to the fact that those situations are happening, which we often justifiably characterise as in some sense and the concepts of political corruption or the manifestation of political will only because of financial and not political interests, and hence absolutely such situations have yielded to the expressed will of voters in the elections. This provision should therefore absolutely be supported, and as well as the entire bill proposal, of course, is the first reading of whether all legal solutions, especially these new legal solutions and the bill itself absolutely needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77849	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Walter Poirot. Here you go. Replica, Mr. Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's not a correction. It's a replica. The Honorable colleague Tomljanović quoted Articles 4, 4 and 5 on transparency and prohibitions, as saying in Article 5, receiving voluntary donations from unnamed anonymous sources. However, I believe that my colleague Tomljanovic will also agree with me if we take Article 15, where it is said that political parties are banned from financing by foreign states, foreign political parties, foreign legal persons and there are no foreign individuals here. So we are in such a position to say very nicely, there are people who have double citizenship and simply on the other hand perhaps with that other citizenship can donate a natural person who has a foreign passport, just one such donation. So I believe that, in this article 5, there is a lack of "foreign legal persons" that "and foreign natural persons" are missing in order to remove these misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77851	Replication response, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77852	Well, I will answer to an esteemed colleague in terms of the replica that I have actually supported in my presentation all those legal solutions, which in principle, and seen from legal solutions support both transparency and visibility, and thus the possibility of funding political parties. It is absolutely necessary to support those solutions that go in terms of the development of these principles, so they specifically suggest that these principles are in reality and true. I did not comment directly on the situation, although I do think that if it also improves the text of the law on the basis of these principles that I mentioned, my personal opinion that such legal solutions should also be accepted and such thinking should be accepted, it is in fact in our interest that this law is of quality and that the intensity of the motion through the proposed legislative solutions as soon as possible is passed over to our daily political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77853	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law is without a doubt necessary. It's necessary, but it's written so incredibly superficially, and in some parts there are some comic elements. So let's start with these comic elements. It shall be prohibited to receive voluntary contributions or donations from anonymous, unnamed sources. That's good. It's okay. That's clear. That's what Article 5 says. And what does Article 6 say? That the possible payments of these voluntary contributions from unnamed sources are due to political parties to report to the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance. Now let's see what it would look like in practice. First of all, it is impossible to make an anonymous donation by depositing in the post office because the payer under the Payment Law must specify who he is and what he is, must be identified. So this kind of payment would be possible if someone came to the party and left an envelope on the port with a million kuna and didn't even say who it was. And now tell me, is this a life situation? This situation is worthy of one bad comedy. It's impossible to happen. I don't know what kind of imagination the legislator of the law has done to describe this situation and put it in a legal proposal. That's one nebulosis. I'm saying this law is necessary. And why do we need it? It is necessary because today in Croatia we have one inadmissible practice, but the law instead of correcting that bad practice that we have, it seems to me that bad practice in some parts even wants to legalise it. And that's why we need to fix it. First of all, as far as income is concerned. The law says well that the party acquires income, and in our practice it seems nakaratous and in some parts of it is of course different from the existing legal provisions and from those applied here, so the party donated money to the party in Karlovac. There is certainly no possibility that the party may be helping another party, and you can see in Karlovac, Minister Vukelic has signed exactly such a contract where HDZ supports HSU with 20 thousand kunas a month because of one councilman and that party is financially helping the other party. Second, about spending money. It is absolutely necessary to introduce a ban on actually buying voters or bribing voters ahead of the elections as it happened on Drvenik Velo where one party's representative shared 300 kunas two days before the elections, and then beware that the party has shown great concern for the socially endangered citizens of Drvenik. So watch how many socially endangered people are in Croatia. So that party didn't give them all 300 kunas, it was on Drvenik Velo, just two days before the election. It's actually about one of the most common, vulgar and... political corruption. [[You don't understand.]] And when we speak, when we write the Law on the financing of political parties and the way a party can spend money, and we have such a practice, unfortunately, as we have, then that practice should be banned by law. It might be in a civilized country where parties don't think about doing it, it might not have to be introduced into the law, but while we have the practice that we have, until someone thinks that two days before the election they share 300 kunas with voters, then the law should also forbid it, unfortunately, our shame that we have such parties. But since we already have them, then let's ban it by law. Thirdly, the law should better regulate the position of independent representatives and the political possibility of political corruption through these independent MPs. Let us begin with that part of Article 26 which states that the provisions of this law are properly applied to independent lists and independent representatives. First, how can it be applied adequately to the law and to independent representatives when, for example, Article 2 of the Law says that the party must act in accordance with or spend money in accordance with the Statute. So where did the independent representative get the statutes? What will he write about his actions? Therefore, this law applies adequately to independent representatives only in respect of money and in any other respect. Article 19 imposes on foreigners the obligation to make a final account and to publish it on websites. So who can get an independent agent to make his own website, so there's no law like that? He is an independent representative. He can have a website, he doesn't have to have a website. Therefore, this law cannot be adequately applied to independent MPs, but independent MPs should be described differently, resolved. Look, we have three kinds of independent agents. First row. Independent MPs who went to the polls with their independent list and won the mandate. It's an independent agent. The real one, the only real independent agent. Then we have representatives of national minorities who like to tell themselves that they are independent representatives. That's not true. On the list for the 11th electoral unit, minority lists can be run by political parties and associations. Associations, minority associations. They can highlight candidates under the Law of Election Law. And now that he's elected, he's run by some political party, so he's not independent. He's not independent. He is the party's candidate elected to the 11th electoral unit and over. The third kind of independent MPs, these are those who suddenly became independent when they entered the Assembly. They were elected on the list of one party, then they had a fight with the party or a party with them, anyway, or perhaps, out of some account, they left their party out of grampity. It is enough that they wrote a letter "I am no longer a member of that party and I declare myself an independent representative" and these people have the right to a million kuna per term. I'm sorry, it's a legalized scam. First of all, the voter scam. The voters voted for the party list. That man was somewhere not a party list. The voters voted for the list, and then he turned those votes into his own votes. And it still benefits a million kunas per term. That is, therefore, inadmissible. The rule should be like this. Whoever's running for office has the right to funds from the state budget. Who's running? Here it's in the law it's said that, well done, actually half-good. That, after the constitution of the Parliament, funds belong to foreigners. No, too late. Too late. After the election was declared, the election results could say it is leaving the party. This rule must apply, Mr. Palaric, from the moment the State Election Commission accepts the list and publishes that list, verifys that list. From that moment on, if a party leaves, they lose their right to that money. Done. Done. He agreed to go to the polls in front of the voters on that list. Oversight, I've already said that in one replica, so it's completely unimaginable that the finance minister could control how money is spent under this law. So the finance minister per definition belongs to one party and the largest, the ruling one. I'm not talking about him being honest or dishonest as a person, like a man. But someone can't control themselves. He cannot control the ruling party when it comes from it and is precisely because it is the ruling party he is the minister. This must be done by an independent regulatory body. Does the State Election Commission, any body that will be composed of all MPs, representatives of all parties, so that all parties control each other? Anything's possible, make up a solution. But certainly not a solution for someone controlling themselves. That is now, Minister Schuker should be controlling HDZ, the next day some SDP minister, SDP, anyway. It can't survive as a principle. It can't survive as a principle, because if we're looking for order, and we're trying to. I believe that the government is pursuing order in this matter then order must and must introduce, not encourage disorder and, therefore, one complete not control. Because this means introducing but not completely controlling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77855	Thank you very much. We have two corrections and one replica. First the corrections. Mr. Nikola Sopcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77856	Thank you. A colleague of Stazic's is in his great care for a Karlovac who is now even bigger because a colleague of Ingrid's who shared that concern with him has not mentioned political corruption here. And as an example, he stated that the party was giving money to the party, mentioning HDZ and the pensioner's party. That's not true. An agreement has been reached in Karlovac between the two parties, how much funds will be provided for the work of political parties within the city's budget. A respected colleague, council member, municipal council, the City Council shall decide on the allocation of funds and the provision of funds for the work of political parties and such an agreement shall be listed and no trade and no transaction between HDZ and HSU shall be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77857	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77858	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Stazic, quotes, "This law is written superficially, and it has comic elements." Well, I really don't see any comedian elements here, even though comedy is a relative term. For me, for example, it's comical that today there is no colleague Antunovic and he's probably at the opening of Lidl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77859	It was not about counterpart Antunovic, so there is so much that should not be mentioned. There's... We have a replica, Mr. Franjo Arabovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, he'd be replicating Mr. Stazic and his statement when he mentioned the Karlovac, when he mentioned the Wooden. So you could, Mr. Stazic, mention that a top-notch, well-known Croatian lawyer is funding a political option just to make his wife a minister of justice and that... Business through INA and gas stations took a commission of 960 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I consider it political corruption, and I don't consider it as big and 300 kuna if there was a means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77861	Thank you. Let's move on. ... And the answer, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77862	I don't know, colleague of Arabovich, whom you're alluding to. Now, I asked my colleague, Lek, who was the director of the party. If you think of lawyer Marinovic, he never supported the party with a single kuna. Therefore, these insinuations of yours are fictional. Imaginations. Now you've made something up, you've now lied to a lie about rocking the SDP. Listen, so I can argue that you bought your place because you gave HDZ some money. I can make it up. You or your wife or your family for coming here to the Parliament and being able to tell lies like you're talking right now. I ask you nicely, if you have any knowledge of this, give them to the public, give them to the State's Attorney's office or don't, brother, lie here. Because what you're doing is an unworthy, unworthy parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77863	Before I give my breach to the Rules of Procedure, I suggest you not use words like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77864	And I suggest they don't lie. Well, it's not. The lie is not about individual people and parties, but about more or less... So, yeah. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] But lying as a lie is an inappropriate expression. It's nice to hear you don't tell the truth. That's my suggestion like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77865	And now for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77866	Dear Mr. Vice President, an honorary colleague has injured Rules of Procedure 209 and 214 because he has not corrected anything, nor responded to my replica, but has offended me as if I had bought something, that I bought a place in the Croatian Parliament, that I was lying. I only quote articles from Croatian media as all MPs here quote articles from Croatian media, read anonymous letters they received, but wrote the night before, so I have the right to say what I read in Croatian media. And Mr. Stazic will bring it to you to see how well it says, and in a month, maybe sooner or later you'll see that Mr. Arabovic said it was true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77867	Look, strictly looking at this isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure because nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that replicas can't tell the truth. So it doesn't say it can, but it doesn't say it can't. So, looking at it that way, I don't think there was room for this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so let's move on. ... I'm testing your endurance. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now it's Mrs. Bishop Perman's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The results of the global corruption barometer for 2005 that citizens believe that the political parties in Croatia are the most corrupt after the judiciary, and this certainly contributed to the non-transparent financing of political parties, which is particularly evident in the financing of election campaigns. For example, in the last presidential elections, it seemed that there was no Croatian citizen who had not wondered how much it was actually costing or even more important who financed it when it was known, for example, that one second of the promotional programme in the prime time on the 1st Croatian TV programme is almost an average Croatian salary. Croatia is one of the few countries in Europe in which the financing of political parties and their campaigns has not been regulated by a special law so far, even though countries such as Finland, Norway, Sweden or Switzerland do not have legal provisions defining the financing of political parties' campaigns. There's no question about them. For example, while in Sweden the parties publish party finances on the basis of an agreement reached in the 1970s in Croatia as if the government had a silent agreement that is not necessary, however it is not desirable for the finances to be transparent. This legislative proposal limits the amount of voluntary contributions and donations of natural and legal persons in the calendar year for the physical years to 90,000 kuna, and for legal purposes per million. But given the social context and the risk factors, I think the amounts are too high. The tendency to intertwine politics and the economy and the clear interest of new rich people to influence politicians and politicians creates a potential danger that the same ones who provide financial support to a particular party when the same party comes to power seek and protect their interests. So who can actually donate a million kunas and not ask for anything in return? I think it's hard to find. But the question is, how do you find the optimal ceiling of donations? In Poland, for example, in the case of presidential elections, the restriction of individual personal donations is limited to the amount of 15 average salaries in the economy. I therefore believe that in Croatia it would make sense to link the upper limit of donations to the average salary to preserve some kind of relationship with reality. In fact, this proposal regulates the issue of political party financing, whether it is an election year or not, until the financing of election campaigns has been particularly singled out, even though it is during the election years that the party gets and spends a lot more money than when there is no choice. The cost of electoral competition shows a trend in constant growth, with one word there is a tendency to commercialise politics. So there is a need and demand for political influence, there is an offer of political influence in exchange for support. The cost of campaigning and party functioning is growing dizzy, making this time the most suitable for corruption. Furthermore, Article 15 prohibits the financing of political parties by companies or units of local and regional (regional) self-government. I believe that this is not enough and that the criteria should be tightened and the share of ownership should be reduced by at least 25%, which is nevertheless a significant influence in the decision-making process. This solution should be traced to the prohibition of donations by private companies and institutions which have a contract with state or local self-government on the provision of public service. The issue of financing political parties and pre-election competition has become one of the key issues of stabilising the democratic process in transition countries. A series of funding scandals appeared not only in transition countries but also in those who have a long tradition and reputation of fair elections such as France, Germany, Italy and so on. Therefore, it is essential to correct the shortcomings of this legislative proposal so that the financing of political parties in Croatia becomes completely transparent and thus restore citizens' confidence not only in political parties but also in politicians themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77869	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Alenka's Chichin-Shain's turn. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate for 10 minutes. It's Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77870	I thank Mr. Vice President and very briefly I will join those who welcome, of course, all the solutions that restore citizens' confidence in the political system and I belong to those MPs who feel that politics does not necessarily need to be devoid of any emotion, no honesty, no truth, and also decency, so that I say that women have their share, and then what I end up with, I will go. So I'm glad to see that it's supported that the parties have lists and women, but I don't know if we're only 10% more valuable given that value assessment, so there could be a little more percentages for every female member in the political party that's been elected to some bodies. So, I'd like to go back to the beginning. Following what we want to be united with the European Union that we will soon join, I would say that we have received one material both on the board and on the benches of GONG, but this GONG material is essentially a summation of the European Charters, so I would call on them as well. So, the first Conference on Corruption in Madrid in '98. It addressed and adopted 14 basic measures recommending political parties to regulate their work and then, by recommendation 1516 of 2001, the Council of Europe Assembly developed these recommendations and recommended that standards of political party behaviour be adopted. through the laws, the area is regulated transparently and in a way that political parties are going through the will of citizens and that they can also follow their will in implementation. I'd just say that I personally think on the one hand we're going to cut the number of laws so people can get along easier and we're doing two here from one law. Well, may I be allowed, my personal observation is that perhaps some other articles could have been developed in the existing Political Party Act. And I wish by law like some other countries would limit and simultaneously perform more functions. Therefore, this knows the legislation of some countries, that there is a limited number of functions that a person can perform in public life as a member of a particular party, and then that in this chapter 3 of the funds are, of course, still with these articles which are now defined as a special law and the area of financing. Well, I'd be on my way. In this Article 3 although Article 15 is prohibited from financing foreign nationals by domestic political parties, it is not said that foreign natural persons should not do so. In my opinion, then, it should be clear and loud in Article 3(2) that voluntary contributions and donations are considered occasional or regular payments to which domestic natural or legal persons voluntarily give money to a political party but also leave that possibility to Croatian citizens living outside Croatia. And then also add to Article 15. Thus, the financing of political parties by foreign states, foreign political parties, foreign legal and physical persons is prohibited. It's probably accidentally dropped. As for where to make these contributions, I am for this solution that Poland has. She says companies that want to finance political parties can do it for pure profit. So, from the profit that remains in the company after tax, so when they are paid, they all contribute to the state if they stay clean, then you can do whatever you want with it, so they can be up to these sums of millions and 090,000 kuna therefore amounts to when a citizen or legal person meets all obligations. As far as these sanctions are concerned, where we use the fine to determine who is going to be wrong, how much to bear the burden, I suggest that there be thought and possible criminalisation that, or for more than just the money to be sharpened, because if someone has a fine of 100,000 kuna and gets only one million then it is tempting to pay the fine and it remains an amount to you rather than to be introduced as a possibility of suspending budget funding. If someone makes such a cardinal mistake to go deaf about these previous articles to criminal provisions, to receive from unknown sources of donation, not to display them transparently, etc. Some here said financial reports should be prescribed. I am not in favour of this because the Accounting Act already prescribes in which way and how non-profit organisations' reports and political parties should look, and that is not only the Ministry of Finance and one part of the Tax Administration which controls all tax outflows and inflows, and in this case it is quite fine, but the State Audit Office is also independent, which will control the business of all political parties, and there I see no problem or conflict of interest or possible influence of any opposition to any of the independent State Audit Offices, which very objectively draws up its reports and reports them. I'm just curious, it can't be done, it's not the kind of thing that's been solved about party foundations, foundations and businesses. So I would warn the promoter that perhaps one article prescribes that what concerns political parties to refer to their foundations, foundations and companies that individual parties are establishing, is today we've heard a lot about how some parties, I repeat, went to HDZ, I repeat that HDZ is not... , there is no such space so I talk very easily about the regulation that those who have it are also controlled as political parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'd just say that I don't see it here, and I'm assuming that election campaigns are meant to fit into this law and I don't see a burning to be determined as set out by the ceiling of donations, maybe the overall limit that some countries know as a solution to certain pre-election campaigns. So we can think about it because we're going to have to when this law is passed, to comply with the existing laws that are in force in Europe. And now I'm going to say something about article 26. It's about independent lists. Independent lists are ad hoc. The pooled groups of citizens who have a specific objective and a certain short duration to say so and cannot be compared with the parties that are legal persons, who have their own accounts which are registered and who have all the legal obligations. How is that supposed to be controlled? I don't know that. Will it then be prescribed that independent lists are registered as associations of citizens, as some forms legal if they want to go to elections and use these funds and donations and open their giro-accounts or otherwise, so they would like that article to be completed or some new article to regulate the form of the existence of independent lists and independent representatives both before and after the elections. So I thank you, and that would be my humble contribution to this law, which I hope by listening to all of us in the second reading will adopt a good part of these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77871	Thank you. We have replicas. The first is Mrs. Ljubica Brdaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77872	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the public believes in the honesty and credibility of politicians little or no. And when we know that we live in a country where it is possible for a minister who is dissatisfied with the election result to decide to buy a councilman, it is no wonder, and it is even less a miracle when we experience hearing from the Vice President of the Parliament that he can be lied, that is. that it is not allowed to speak falsely in replicas. You can't just call a lie her real name, but you can say that some colleague isn't telling you the truth, so that's fine. We don't have to be surprised that our reiting is the way it is. Unfortunately, your expectations that this law will change the public's opinion of politicians will not happen unless he has a serious and rooted change. Otherwise, we will only have the opportunity to admire Croatian creativity in finding holes in the law and conducting trade transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77873	Please, you haven't got another word. I have to answer because Mrs. Representative called me here. In no word did I say that I'm in favor of telling lies in replicas. I am, if you have listened well, saying that strictly business watching is not forbidden or allowed to speak falsely. So, from which you could draw the conclusion that I, like I, plead to speak falsely. Otherwise, if you're not sure what I'm saying right now, you can see it from the stenograms of this session. The answer to the lady's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77874	One of the frequent mistakes in perception is from a tree not to see the forest. I'm not talking about trees and I wasn't talking about trees, I was talking about woods. So, I'm interested in a systematic solution to a problem called political party financing, and I'm ready to open a debate on each individual case on a round table that's not the subject of a debate on law-making, and I think that, again, I'm going to say, we're creating a picture of ourselves, and we're also making speeches like this, which you and I are talking about, but also, of course, media that have their reasons to defile individual politicians, and I'm often here correcting allegations of people's thoughts, and unfortunately, so sometimes, by repeating the truth, people accept it as the truth. And even worse than that, it's half-truth, it's the easiest way to create manipulations, and that's what we politicians need to avoid, so to express our clear views and fight for those principles that I repeat to me are truth, honesty, and ultimately emotion and decency in communication that I always respect in this house and expect from others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77875	Another replica, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague touched a few aspects of this law and I think the good dots have been touched. Unfortunately, the solutions to the law have nothing to do with what it seems to me. In fact, the revision of the Law on Political Parties not to multiply the laws cannot be done because this House has recently adopted an interpretation of the Law on Political Parties which is entirely the opposite of what is now proposed by this law. When you talked about sanctions, you talked about how to regulate sanctions to hit the essence of things, but the essence of things doesn't sanction this proposal. The point of the matter isn't whether the party took 10, 20 or 50 thousand kuna to the wrong side. The bottom line is corruption and clientelem policy. So the party promises something to someone when they win power to pay their debt. This law doesn't even try to sanction or try to find a modus to sanction it. You've well noticed that surveillance through the finance minister can't, of course, work. Finally, that is why we have an audit and an audit is the only place that can control the business of the parties because you can imagine how that supervision would seem to be the minister from the government controlling the first funding of his party and he was the most often treasurer of the party and then to control the functioning, the financial functioning of the opposite party. Well, not to be a racket, that'd be a gibberish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77877	Thank you. Mrs. Judge-Thrascan's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77878	I'll start at the end. So, I'm sorry you didn't listen well, there's a phonogram that you read neatly after the session, so you'll see that I didn't say it was good not to control the minister, I said it was good to control the tax administration plus the state audit, I said it out loud and clear. And of course I'm going to answer the wrong thing about what you said to me that this isn't a good solution. This is the solution proposed in the first reading. If you wanted to go over your knees like the people say about a solution hastily and what would fit someone then you would go into the final draft of the law and he would get support. However, the first reading took place so that all of us could make our remarks. I gave on my personal behalf a certain partnership with European recommendations. So they're not binding on anyone, they're who they are. Part of it was solved in this bill too. I expect, of course, and I see according to the perception of the promoter that a good part of the remark will be accepted and we would talk about it that way and we would talk about it in another reading. I'm sure it'll be a good law to track down what we all want to put in order together. And I don't see why someone who wants order so much when that order starts to get in the way of that. I understand that it must always be against any proposal that comes but it is not always necessary. So what's good here is good. It needs to be complemented with a little bit better and it will be, there's no perfect law, but much better than what's happened so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77879	And another replica of Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There, counterpart Trakostanec opened a good topic in the opinion and touched the issue of independent lists and independent candidates. In my opinion, independent lists and independent candidates on those lists are completely legal and legitimately elected representatives. The question, however, is whether independent candidates are those candidates who have split up for any reason with their party on whose list they were, whether they have come into conflict with the party or are party to them simply no longer needing them. And I believe that in that very sense, the progress on opening this topic is to touch this issue and talk about it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77881	Thank you very much. Mrs. Judge-Thrascan's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77882	I think that this law clearly made a distinction between those who, before choosing to form an independent list, put their name and last name, and go for the voters' votes, and about their cost and the cost of those who sponsor them, and sasma defined that case that happens to be on the list of one political option in any body, and then decide to stand alone to say so and then expect it to be the means, and there is a legislator who proposed that solution to say go away, so you fight alone but there is no money that belongs to that political option that has been voted and won voters' votes. I'm all for it. So, I'm one of those guys who thinks it's not good to convert in life one time and I don't say it a few times, and I think you should go where a man chooses to find the best way to fight for the common good and one of those times to fight for the common good is to work in political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77883	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Vojislav Stanimirovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77884	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State! We welcome the adoption of the Law on the financing of political parties is the application of democratic standards and the implementation of elections should certainly be upgraded from day to day to day in order for the elections to be more correct and fairer in accordance with the practice that exists in European countries. It is known to all of us so far that political parties are non-profit associations and that they can obtain revenues from membership fees, propaganda materials, publishing activities and at the end of the revenues from the state budget and the budget of units of local and regional self-government units. These last sources have been the most constant and secure sources so far. As for voluntary revenues in natural and legal persons, the main sources of funding were also very often large parties in pre-election campaigns, but they were usually non-transparent without any control or insight. Because there were no legal regulations, there were no restrictions and therefore this law has an exceptional importance because it regulates control, transparency and should establish financial discipline on this type of funding. It also reduces and prevents, along with the reduction and prevention of corruption in politics that we have certainly had in the wide range so far. This bill tries to regulate so far the most controversial means of funding i.e. voluntary contributions from legal and natural persons in money, services or by giving products by setting limits as provided for for natural persons, 90 000 kuna and legal persons 1 million kuna during one calendar year. We think this is good, and this is our club that supports it. It is also important that this type of funding foresees the possibility of control because payments go through the central account of political parties which ensures transparency and the possibility of monitoring financial flows. A significant article in this law is one that prohibits anonymous donations but that should also be incorporated and banned on behalf of third parties which is not regulated. Because it's important that all donations of this kind should be reported to the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance itself. Matter that regulates the ban on political and other pressures on legal and physical persons is also an important part of this bill because it has been a regular practice without legal sanctions so far, and we know that particularly large parties have used their power in terms of pressure, pay, you will be protected, you will become a member of boards, state firms, institutions, you will become director when we come to power and similar promises. What this law did not regulate and there was space and that is why it is only financing the election campaigns that are mentioned above, which are bad phenomena and most often in these parties was the need for large financial resources at the time. We also support Article 9 of this Bill proposal, which says that the funds achieved by one representative who has reached his mandate on the political party list should and should remain in the political party in order to prevent malfeasances or some mass occurrence of dissatisfaction with his status after the election to another party or independent representatives. The SDSS Club will provide the same support with possible acceptable suggestions that will improve this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77885	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State Secretary of the Central State Office Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77886	Dear Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that we are on the verge of adopting this bill in the first reading because as much as we have referred to the shortcomings of individual proposed solutions, however, I cannot help thinking that this law or better said the need to fully and thoroughly regulate the financing of political parties is needed in Croatia, that we are on track to pass one law that will be part of the reform of the political system, part of the electoral reform, but also a law that will contribute to the return of citizens' trust in politicians, to political parties. We have approached the making of this law very openly. We've approached because of our needs. Of course it is also part of our anti-corruption strategy and the Croatian state programme adopted by the Parliament, but we have joined the creation of this law under pressure rather than just to raise the level of democracy in society, to make Croatia even better than it is now. Ladies and gentlemen, we have held a round table with representatives of the international community, with representatives of domestic NGOs, and with those dealing with elections such as GONG, as well as Transparency International, because we wanted to make a good law, a law that will be seen from all aspects, from all points of view to improving political life in the Republic of Croatia. And we listened carefully to everything that was said here. We will carefully study the phonogram and we will do for another reading, I believe a significant step forward and I believe that this law will finally be passed with a large number of MPs' votes in this House and I also particularly believe that the law will be appropriate, that it will not only be passed as a declaration but will be a serious instrument of stabilising political life in the Republic of Croatia and restoring citizens' trust in political institutions. I cannot accept the thesis that has been heard that Croatia has been ruled by corruption. Corruption probably has, it's an evil that's everywhere in the world, and it needs to be fought by all forces. And this law and its application will be one of the instruments to fight corruption in order to eradicate it. Croatia is a democratic country. Its system institutions operate within the limits of the legal powers, and by adopting this law, by filling this gap, it will influence the degree of democratisation of society to a higher level. Thank you, everyone who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77887	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when they're up to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77888	Proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The draft law on the financing of political parties is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it! Can we vote? The result? With 87 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77889	We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the validation of the Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 566 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure. Emergency procedure. United first and second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77890	Thank you very much. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Contaminants, i.e. on Posits. These are substances that include an extremely large number of compounds that can be classified into several main groups such as pesticides, halogen hydrocarbons or PCB derivatives, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, diskins and furanes produced in the combustion process. The Stockholm Convention has been adopted and we signed it on 23 May 2001 and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction is the competent authority for the implementation of this Convention. It's about us confirming now, asking the Parliament to confirm, to ratify this Convention. It was only in 2004 that the convention actually began its application. It's a relatively difficult convention that requires a lot of investment and a lot of things to be arranged in the country to protect the environment from these very harmful substances. However, this is not the beginning that is happening in Croatia, in the Republic of Croatia. We already have organized relationships with pesticides by the Law on Plant Protection. Also polychlorinated biphenyls or PCBs as constituents of oil used mainly in condensers are the same in us only in that part that can be used for maintenance, so we don't have new devices. And the Chemical Act is fully defined by this treatment of these chemicals. So it's a convention that's going to produce an effect so that according to the Environmental Protection Act, we're going to bring in additional implementing regulations and we have until 2025 to solve problems with PCBs, so what it says in itself is the weight of the problem. So the Convention envisaged, as did the European Regulation for a number of years, to address the problems of care and to find replacement substances. So, we're not going to have any particular problems in implementation, except we're going to have to invest a lot of money in solving, but we have time. And as for these pesticides and the most difficult substances released into the environment, we've dealt with it in previous laws so that we can confirm and ratify this Convention without any major problems. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77891	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77892	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club is on the view that it is necessary to pass the Act on the validation of the Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants. Because the international treaty addresses important issues for environmental protection at local and global level. It should be noted that persistent organic contaminants are toxic organic compounds of most anthropogenic origin. They are resistant to chemical, photochemical and biodegradation. They have a bioaccumulation feature in living organisms. Because of their partial usability, they are absorbed into particles in the atmosphere, and the currents of air, water and migratory species transfer them to great distances and can be deposited anywhere in our planet. They cannot be removed and are harmful to all environmental components. In many studies, the use of persistent organic pollutants in agriculture, forestry, veterinary and industry, and the release of these substances into the atmosphere of water and land, it has become known that their use has adversely affected human, animal and plant health, and some of these substances are also carcinogenic, i.e. in simple words in their use or contact with them, resulting in the occurrence of cancer in all living organisms. The secretary of state has already pointed out here that these persistent organic tars include a large number of compounds. And in our country and in our country, pesticides used to protect plants from harmful effects and pests on humans and animals have appeared. Afterwards halide derivatives of hydrocarbons used for cleaning in the metal industry and other industries and for other purposes such as: The already mentioned polychlorinated biphenyls used in the production, i.e. the use of transformers, capacitors, which are heavy toxic oils very dangerous to the environment and all that lives on earth. Besides, there's a so-called. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons released in the atmosphere from the fuel combustion process as well as dioxides and furans released into the atmosphere in the event of incomplete combustion of fuels and stationary and peaceful sources and in the heat treatment of waste. So you see that it's very toxic things that we see here and we meet in everyday life and work and perform our activities. In the Republic of Croatia, already some obligations that will arise under this international treaty over the past years have been regulated legally. So the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning is responsible for implementing the Law on Air Protection and the Waste Act. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry shall be responsible for the protection, implementation of the Law on Plant Protection and the Water Protection Act. The Ministry of Health and Social Care for the Implementation of the Chemical Act, and the Ministry of Economy for the Implementation of the Regulation on the Protection of Working with substances containing polychlorinated biphenyls, polychlorinated naphthalenes and polychlorinated terphenyls. The Stockholm Convention was adopted on 17 February 2004, following very long negotiations between representatives of many countries led by the United Nations Environment Protection Council administration. For the implementation of this Convention, the Conference of the Parties and its committee and other auxiliary bodies shall be responsible. The Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme shall carry out the operational tasks of the Secretariat. Our country signed the Stockholm Convention on 23 May 2001. The Ministry of Environmental and Spatial Protection shall be responsible for the implementation of this Convention, but it shall also be responsible for implementing a number of other conventions and international contracts which must also be implemented in the field of environmental protection, as the implementation of this Convention alone without those other international agreements would not have that effect and would lead to such solutions when fully implemented as all these international agreements and conventions will be fully implemented. I must point out that by adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia also assumes a number of serious obligations. This is the first obligation to develop an action plan to reduce and lower emissions of these substances into the atmosphere within two years of the date of entry into force of this Convention, and this Convention has already entered into force on 17 February 2004, when it was ratified by the 50th country in the world, which was the Republic of France. Then we must develop a waste management strategy resulting from the disposal of waste permanent pollutants or these dangerous toxic substances that we have not yet done. The implementation plans for the achievement of the obligations arising from this international contract must be adopted. We must also provide information to the public on the risk assessment as well as the reduction of the risk and the possibility of slaughtering these substances or reducing their use. Conduct programmes for the education of our employees, scientists, educators, and technical and management staff working with such substances on the problem of the harmful impact of persistent organic pollutants on human health and the environment. Encourage appropriate research, report to the Conference of Parties on the implementation of the provisions of the Convention and on the effectiveness of the measures in meeting the objectives set out in this Convention, i.e. by this International Treaty, and we must certainly provide financial resources in the national budget for the implementation of this Convention. However, by adopting this international agreement, Croatia opens up opportunities to use the first professional assistance of international professional institutions to address this problem, in addition to using support, international monetary institutions to achieve the objectives of this Convention in accordance with national plans, priorities and programmes. Finally, taking into account citizens' health, life protection, nature protection, the Croatian Democratic Community's club stands at the view that the Croatian Parliament needs to confirm the Stockholm Convention and will therefore support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77893	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of this Convention is to protect human health and the environment from persistent organic pollutants. The common characteristic of this group of compounds is that they are toxic, they are persistent, or they are resistant to chemical, biological and photochemical degradation and are therefore slowly decomposed. They are weakly soluble in water, and the result is that they are rapidly absorbed in the soil, and in water media they accumulate in sediment, accumulate in living organisms, and due to the lipophilic properties of this group of compounds most often in fatty tissues such as. animal fat or milk. They reach the environment either directly, indirectly or through the atmosphere. In fact, due to the properties of partial usability, they are located in a steaming phase or are absorbed into particles in the atmosphere and are thus transmitted at a large distance from a direct source and can be found anywhere in the world. The presence of persistent organic pollutants in areas where these compounds have never been applied may be explained by their transmission through the atmosphere. Contaminants that are detected are widely biosphered and are present at ever lower concentrations, but these are increasingly toxic and more dangerous compounds, and the risk of biological effects is growing much faster than their concentration is being reduced. Because of their marked toxicity, constant control of the presence and levels of these compounds in the environment is necessary. What kind of compounds will best illustrate the following few examples. We all know that DDT had a wide-ranging DDT synthesized in 1942 under the commercial name "gesarol" and after two years of testing, German chemist Müller announced that the compound shows a highly insectic activity. Soon "gesarol" became an irreplaceable means of destroying mosquito larvae, malaria transporters and typhoid bacteria. His insectic activity was so successful that Müller won the Nobel Prize in 1948. Gessarol, which changed its name to DDT, was widely used especially after the World Health Organization recommended its general application for the control of malaria in 1955. It was a huge success of public health. However, after 15 years of systematic application of DDT worldwide, 2 worrying facts have been observed. First, target organisms, meaning larvae, bacteria, etc., have developed resistance and it has been found to be harmful to mammals, larger animals, and humans. And secondly, DDT has been found to be very stable in the environment. Once introduced, it remains forever in nature. DDT is lipophilic and hydrophoban and shows a marked tendency to bioaccumulate. Accumulation is also found in a human organism where it is also accumulated in fat tissue, and the body is eliminated with milk so that the child is exposed to it from birth through breast milk. Due to these knowledge of DDT use, in 1972 it is banned everywhere in the world, but continues to apply in some developing countries. However, despite the ban on application and perseverance, it is already in the biosphere to be found on all types of samples. Another group of compounds found broad application because of its good physical and chemical properties. It's polychlorinated biphenyls or what they're called PCBs or PCBs for short term. Together, all very good dialects, heat conductors, are highly flammable, and they are extremely good solvents for different chemical compounds that were commercially produced for broad consumption. Due to these properties, PCBs were widely used as electrical technical insulators in electrical installations, meaning transformers and capacitors and hydraulic systems. Different pumps, compressors, aggregates, and also used as accessories in the manufacture of paints and varnishes, emulsifiers, plasticizers. By 1970, so the year DDT was banned was produced by about a million tonnes of PCBs. These are very permanent compounds, half life in the environment is between 10 and 20 years, and they also show the property of accumulation in the fat tissue of animals and plants. It has been found to be very toxic, mammals have damage to the organs responsible for metabolism and have a destructive effect on the nervous system. Furthermore, these are the first compounds that have undoubtedly been proven to pass the pancentic barrier so that the child that DDT was exposed to via breast milk after delivery, which I was just saying, has been exposed to in the mother's body before birth. Immediately after these lessons, the use of PCBs is first strictly restricted and later banned, but many other devices in the world, especially in undeveloped countries, contain these dangerous compounds. Croatia has participated in several international studies co-ordinated by the World Health Organization and the subject matter of collecting data on organ-chlorinated compounds levels in different countries. Human milk was the most tested. All collected samples were obtained from mothers who were not specifically exposed to this group of compounds. However, in all samples analysed, DDT and PCB metabolites were present. The results obtained in Croatia do not differ significantly from the levels of compounds studied in other countries of Europe. In Croatia, the PCB problem has become particularly current due to war circumstances. Let us remember the Sisak Željezare where the transformer of 6 tonnes of PCB was destroyed, electricity plants in Ernestinovo near Osijek, Sibenik light metal factory, damaged capacitors, Rijeka- Jadro destroyed transformer, each tank or larger military vehicle contains PCBs in its hydraulic system. In Croatia, there are many more potential sources of environmental pollution in these compounds, and this suggests the need for their presence to be systematically monitored in all types of patterns where they can be expected. The problem is that taking care of devices filled with PCBs is an expensive procedure, so only economically rich countries can do so in a short time. Unfortunately, Croatia is not able to dispose of its PCB-filled devices in a short time and replace them with eco-acceptable substances because it requires significant resources. As a result, most of these devices will remain in use until the end of their lifetime and must then be properly destroyed. As far as dioxins and furans are concerned, their biological effect is not known enough yet, but it is believed to be the most toxic compounds ever produced. They cause defects in genetic material, or cause changes in DNA. They are made by burning practically everything, they are extremely persistent and hydrophobic so that they can be absorbed into particles of soot and ash and carried by wind they can travel far from the source they come from. All of this suggests that environmental pollution is becoming an increasingly serious problem for mankind, and this should be the main reason for the launch of global monitoring. A significant contribution to these efforts will certainly be made by the Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants, adopted by the world states on 23 May 2001, and entered into force on 17 February 2004, when it is, therefore, 90 days after the ratification of the Convention by the 50th State. This Convention aims to reduce and wherever possible prevent the release of 12 permanent organic compounds into the environment. It shall be attributed to the conditions to be met by each party to the Convention in order to achieve the abolition of production, use, import and export of fixed organic compounds at global level. The application of this Convention should ultimately result in a significant reduction and even a complete removal of the release of this group of pollutants into the environment. As a result, the SDP Club will support the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants. By confirming the Stockholm Convention, the Republic of Croatia not only aligns its legislation with the legislation of the European Union, but, more importantly, it joins all those countries that have already signed and confirmed what, in the end, Croatia will, in addition to the laws and regulations currently in force which the Secretary of State has spoken about, further contribute to the protection of the atmosphere, ground and groundwater, the protection of forest biocenosis, the protection of soil, and that means protecting the quality of agricultural and food products, and thus protecting human health against this type of toxic compounds. If the Stockholm Convention would not have left just one more document that we have signed, it is important to strengthen monitoring of persistent organic pollutants in the environment. Due to the marked toxicity of this group of compounds, it is necessary to exercise systematic control of their presence and environmental levels. It's just that with a high percentage of security we'll know where we are and what we're gonna do about these compounds. In addition, it is important to draw up planning and legal documents, which implies the creation of a strategy, a national implementation plan with an action plan, and then to develop different implementing rules. Only then will we be able to fully achieve all these goals and tasks that this Convention sets before us. Of course, this will also require additional funding from the state budget. The good side of this Convention is, among other things, that it creates the possibility not only of technical assistance but also of financial assistance. In the principle of developed countries, financial resources will help developing and transitioning countries to facilitate the implementation of the provisions of this Convention, as set out in Articles 12, 13 and 14. This provision should help the Republic of Croatia to implement as high as possible everything that has been established by the Convention. It seems to me, reading this Croatian text of the Convention, that in some places there is a little bit of awkwardness in translation, and I think maybe we should do it in language. For example. Here is Article 13(2), and this is repeated and point 3 is said: "The parties that have developed countries."and then on, "with the Parties to developing countries." It seems to me that it might be better to say developed countries which are parties to the Convention or developing countries that are parties to the Convention, or if not that formulation, then the one that appears in that same article is better, but in paragraph 4, where the party is said to be a developing country. I think this first formulation is somehow quite clumsy, or not in the spirit of our language. And finally, as I have already pointed out, the SDP club will vote in favour of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants because I believe that our environment and the protection of that environment are too valuable and too valuable and that this should actually be one of the priorities of this country and of every government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77895	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's welcome to the Croatian Assembly of Mr Julian Priestley of the Secretary General of the European Parliament with his associates who is present here on. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77896	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Right away, I would like to say that the Croatian People's Party will unreservedly support this International Convention and its ratification in the Croatian Parliament. That's very important to us. Croatia is a tourist country, a country that wants to preserve its sea, its water, its soil, its air, its forests, and this is exactly what the Convention is going to do. The colleagues have said it is a demanding convention, we agree, but perhaps we have not highlighted enough in the debate so far that this Convention provides a lot to Croatia. Namely, those of you who have had time to read this Convention have seen that it provides for also very important technical assistance, financial assistance, help with the professional training of our staff and joint cooperation in scientific research in this area. Therefore, we can benefit greatly from this Convention, not only by reading this Convention in one way. What has interfered with us at the Croatian People's Party club in this proposal are dates. It was still in May 2001 when the Stockholm Convention was signed. So it was almost 6 years ago, the signature was signed at the beginning of the previous government's mandate, and now, at the end of the term of office of the government, the material of ratification is yet to be referred to in the Croatian Parliament. It is too slow, it is even inadmissible slow because as I just said the Stockholm Convention not only burdens, obligates but it clearly offers us very much technical assistance, financial assistance and professional training. So, what did we actually miss? We missed exactly that we had ratified earlier, we were already practically here the secretary of state said, she came into effect in 2004, now at the end of 2006, we were almost 3 years old already able to co-operate, exploit resources, perfect our people, and we need it very, very much. Therefore, we do have an objection that often we have a situation like this that the signing of an international convention is very, very time-consistent from the time when we decide to finally ratify this Convention and assume its obligations. What I would also like to say, and with this I met in Budapest, Paris, Strasbourg, in Kyoja where I was a representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where some of the representatives of the Croatian Government attended the meetings. It bothers me very much when representatives of the Croatian government almost regularly remain silent at these meetings. One passive membership in these conferences, in those associations. These people have to go to these meetings with clear tasks that they must try to win for Croatia, which they try to install when the text is changed, complements, because these conventions are constantly complemented, so there is much to be done for our country. I'm against some congressional tourism to get a diary, to see a beautiful city. It is primarily necessary to do what you are there for, and it is not happening, and I am very afraid that if we do not go there with clear messages, with clear goals, with a clear desire to kill ourselves from these funds, from possible and offered programmes indeed Croatia includes then we will not have the benefit that we may have and should have. Furthermore, Mr Ružinski knows very well the system of scientific research that we have in Croatia. Nice colleague Martic just said this is what she feels like as one of her priorities. I agree with her. Probably a lot of others think that's the case. Why not also the Ministry of Science, which has a longer name, also said during this period and now contracts are being concluded for the next research period. One of the priority areas that we will finance by one status that will be 20%, 30% stronger than other projects because that is what all countries are doing. Priority areas clearly push and finance better, better to get top experts, researchers, so that this area can be resolved as soon as possible, find solutions and help their economy. This is also such an area where we, as a state, should have the interest to essentially ask the scientific community for research in this direction and, in particular, to include then international research that will, within a short time, resolve, resuscitate the use of one organic substance with others that are less harmful or harmless at all, etc. Hence, there is much, very much to be done and can be done in this area. And I will finally repeat by not knowing which time is always the same request from the Croatian People's Party club when it comes to those sublegal acts that follow after we adopt the Convention or the law. In this case, it is an implementing plan that must be adopted within 2 years. The Croatian People's Party Club is asking that this Implementing Plan, it does not have to come to the Assembly but let it come to all our committees, interested working bodies who should be able and should look at this plan and see if this is in line with the debate we had in the Assembly, whether or not this plan is followed by intention, wills, proposals from members of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I wouldn't go any further because my colleague Martic spoke very clearly about the characteristics of these compounds, about their division, about what products we find them in. Therefore, I will completely skip that part, but these several requests are made by the Croatian People's Party club, according to the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77897	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Marko Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77898	Just one small, short correction of the wrong quote, which was cited by counterpart Doric in his presentation. The funds of international funds and financial institutions could not be used on the basis of this Convention before 17 February 2004, since the Convention of the same kind came into force 90 days after that day, and the Republic of Croatia could not use those funds before 3.4 or more years ago. In addition, in order to be able to use the funds, certain programmes and plans that our ministry has now created and created conditions for us to sign this contract and to appear with international aid institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77899	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives, Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77900	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Ruzhinski! This Convention of exceptional importance for Croatia if we want to maintain the image of a country with a preserved environment, if we want to preserve the strategic resources of drinking water and if we want to preserve the health of our population. I don't doubt the government's determination to actually operate this convention, to implement it in the way it's imagined. However, that is why I am obliged to point out on behalf of the club the existing practice or existing regulations under this Convention concerning the limit levels of release or emissions of harmful dioxins and furans. This Convention also applies, of course, to the release of dioxins and furans into the environment from both various waste burn plants and from industrial and non-industrial bars. Dioxins and furans are caused by incomplete combustion and they are carcinogenic. Unfortunately, even in the previous assembly of parliaments, a rule was adopted that increased the level of dioxin emissions by several rows. I asked the secretary of state to answer me whether it was a printing error or whether it was a conscious increase in the border. If it is a printing error to send a correction to the "National Journal" as soon as possible, and I simply could not help thinking that it was all done so that large players, large cementers, could spare those penalties that could be followed by strict application of the regulations imposed by this Convention, because they were planning to use individual waste oil or even tyres in cement furnaces, or were planning to use imported coal with far higher levels of pollution than the standards in question. What is particularly interesting is that by 2000, rather strict standards were adhered to, and then suddenly they were released. So my simple question with regard to this convention that I refer to the Ministry's representative is, is that rule still in force? If so, why is it that he intends to comply with this convention? And secondly, if things cannot change simply with one democratic debate and confidence in the Parliament, we will not be left with another than to force the Croatian Government and the competent ministry to comply with the standards imposed by this Convention as soon as possible. So let's start protecting our space, our air, our drinking water, our environment in the way other EU countries do, and let's not let those investors who think this is El Dorado about environmental protection come in here. And that we have nothing to worry about. That one standard applies to one parent company in Sweden or Mexico and the other is valid here. No! No! It can't go that way. And that is why it is important for this convention to be ratified and it is even more important for the ministry to start immediately with it, because then it is part of the Croatian legal system to start adapting immediately to all the regulations that rely on it. And then we have one strong international legal argument for that. And gentlemen who do not want to behave in accordance with European environmental standards, I regret the case. It'll only take a few more years until we're out of the Union and then it'll have to adapt anyway. I therefore expect a clear response within the meaning of the rules on the limit levels of emissions of harmful gases from burners, thermal power plants and other plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77901	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77902	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State! The IDS Club will, of course, support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Stockholm Conference on Permanent Organic Contaminants for the reasons why these areas must be very much our priorities. The world's countries adopted a convention on persistent pollutants back in 2001 in Stockholm. Of course the time goes and that we at the club IDS always ask that such things are done a little faster and come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, given their value and their significance. The Convention is aimed at reducing and where appropriate, where appropriate prevention is possible, the release of twelve existing organic compounds to polluting organic substances in the environment, some of which are aldrin, tuordran, DDT, pieldrin, etc. The convention came into force on 17 February 2004, 90 days after the ratification of the Convention by the 50th state. It prescribes the conditions to be met by each party to the Convention in order to achieve the abolition of production, use of imports and exports of permanent organic compounds at global level. Since the Republic of Croatia was primarily unable and is not still able to take care of its devices filled with polychlorinated... and install eco-acceptable substances instead because this requires significant investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe, however, that the Republic of Croatia must take care of these things and simply destroy them after the end of their lifetime of use or first hawari. Of course, I don't want to repeat what my colleagues said in front of me because I believe it's clear to all of us what this law is and what this convention is really about. Scientists have been known to have warned before but to warn today that the use of persistent organic pollutants has been harmful to human health and to the animal and plant life and to land and aquatic ecosystem systems and some substances have been demonstrated or suspected of being carcinogenic. So I don't think we have much longer to do with this, and the IDS club is going to support this bill very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77903	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77904	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Stockholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants, which defines the objective of adopting the same, states: "The aim of this Convention is to protect human health and the environment from persistent organic pollutants.". And this makes it almost all clear and specific why this convention. It is organic compounds that are both toxic and still have a whole range of characteristics that require that these substances be cared for in a particularly responsible way because, as it is known, they resist photolytic, biological and chemical degradation, they are persistent, accumulated in living organisms most often in fat tissue. In view of the stability, they are transferred to high distances, cannot be removed, and therefore have an absolute adverse impact on the environment from the atmosphere, all water streams and soil. And what is especially to be pointed out, they accumulate intensively in the food chain. For almost 40 years, the example of DDT, or finding it, has been mentioned, in my opinion, liver penguins, which could not have been, was too difficult to prove that they could have gotten there in such a short time but they did. And also, certain substances are contained in deep water levels in areas where intensive agriculture is applied. On the other hand, it is about substances that have had or still have a huge use in agriculture, veterinary, forestry, industry and which have a harmful effect on human health, animal and plant life, land and water... I doubt they can be carcinogenic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The convention aims at reducing the release of twelve permanent organic compounds and came into force on 17 February 2004. It lays down the conditions to be met by each party to the Convention in the direction of abolishing the use of imports and exports of permanent organic compounds at global level. The Republic of Croatia signed a Stockholm Convention on Permanent Organic Substances polluting on 23 May 2001. In accordance with the requirements of the Convention, the Republic of Croatia shall, once it becomes a party to the Convention, be obliged to submit a national implementation plan within two years of the ratification of the Convention. According to the laws dealing with this problem in the Republic of Croatia, several ministries are involved in the implementation of measures related to those substances, namely the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Agriculture and Forestry, Health and Social Care and the Ministry of Economy. Four main groups of permanent organic compounds are classified based on their adverse environmental impact, and they are already listed here several times, so they would not talk about it. However, polychlorinated biphenyls may particularly need to be emphasized. They're from one of these groups I just told you about. In particular, they are located in the condensation and transformation facilities of the older date of production in large numbers and as such become dangerous waste that must be disposed of in an environmentally acceptable manner. It should also be said that taking care of these devices as a waste is an expensive procedure that not everyone can afford in a short time. Therefore, this is done gradually in the Republic of Croatia until the deadline when this equipment becomes a waste. And another speciality in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to uncontrolled delay or better disposal of these dangerous substances. These are the direct and indirect consequences of the war. In direct people, I mean direct destruction by war, and with indirect delays in economic development as a consequence of war. The convention solves this problem well. It, of course, requires additional financial resources. It of course requires additional financial resources but certainly this law on the confirmation of the Convention should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77905	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. She's gone. Mr. Representative, Ms. Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By adopting the Law on Confirmation of the Stockholm Convention on Permanent Organic Contaminants, I keep it unusually important from the aspect of protecting human health as well as from the aspect of environmental protection. And I'm sure I'll support the law, and I had no doubt that we wouldn't all support that law. The convention refers to 12 persistent organic pollutants that are classified as 4 groups. I would not speak for myself and repeat what has already been said about everything, but it is certainly good to talk and inform the public about all the dangers and characteristics of persistent organic pollutants to talk about it everywhere and everywhere. I would stress that pesticides from the list of these 12 compounds from the Convention in the Republic of Croatia are not produced, imported and not applied. But I would also like to say one important thing on this occasion that unfortunately in our country we still haven't done enough in the field of use of authorised pesticides in the protection of plants in monitoring, pesticides in the environment, and especially in monitoring pesticide residues in foods. We still have a lot of irregularities in the sale of pesticides, primarily because of the fictitious recruitment of expert personnel in pesticide retail. In the use of pesticides, there are most problems in family economies that do not have educated personnel. Despite the great effort of agricultural advisory services that make the most of their efforts to help and educate family economies. I therefore appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health to provide significantly greater resources for the education of family economies, the use of plant protection and monitoring of pesticide residences in foods. No mixture of current PSB is produced in Croatia and no transformers or capacitors filled with PSB have been imported since 1992. We now have a total of PSB equipment of about a million and 400 thousand pounds which will have to be properly taken care of, or properly destroyed, after the end of the lifetime of use or after the same equipment has happened. Between 1994 and 2004, around 300 tonnes of faulty transformers and capacitors were exported from Croatia. I would stress here the great responsibility of environmental inspectors who need to identify each facility and control proper and permanent care. We are aware that in our country because of the war and all the processes that the economy has gone through are difficult to take care of in a short time of time all the devices filled with PSB and use environmentally acceptable chargings. I therefore believe that 2025 is an acceptable time limit until the PSB can be used with a naturally significant role of environmental protection inspection, which will continuously monitor the use and permanent management of the PSB. So when we look at all the risks and dangers we have to address, and we are neither technically nor financially capable of adopting this Law adopting the Stockholm Convention, regardless of what it will cost us much, we will protect people's health and protect the environment. We will receive technical and financial assistance for the use of the best available techniques. The development and implementation of educational programmes will be encouraged so that the public gets to know better about the adverse impact of persistent organic pollutants on human health and the environment. The obligation to encourage research, environmental monitoring and other significant measures shall be laid down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77907	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Ms. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, in her presentation, looked back on the spread and use of pesticides, so I'd like to point out my experience while I was working in the medical office, and while they were combined, then there was a regular checkup on the staff. It seems to me and I could say with certainty that there are hardly any of this now because we are in, combined and organised production has failed so that the family economies and the examinations do not carry out, and I don't think that there are any other measures that, when it comes to the use of pesticides and that we are not talking about controlled disposal of pesticides, and that we really need to manage this area well and control well, educate all those who use them and monitor how they delay packaging as well as the residues of pesticides and soil, in water and in food. We often know about, we know about the pay, and I've brought myself into this situation to say how we're going to buy, thinking that we're going to buy something healthy and useful from our maids how we like to say it, and those often have to pay the same profit and others use uncontrollably different means to increase the yields, so I think that's where we really need to pay attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77909	Thank you. Mrs. Brnadic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77910	Well, here's my colleague. I agree with everything you've said. I have not elaborated a little more, but I certainly stressed that it is a very important education and constant monitoring and control of the use of pesticides and, of course, I will again point out and ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Arrangements to fill all free jobs of environmental inspectors because they are those who have a lot to do and certainly one of the biggest problems is the financial means for ensuring complete monitoring of the residence, control of pesticides in foods, because in the last 10 years we have little stopped there and hopefully, in the most recent time, that especially in the coming year, how much information I have that I will provide significant funds for the monitoring of pesticides in foods and the role of environmental inspection, advisory, agricultural advisory services is very important that small family, medium-sized families are being educated and working with pesticides as prescribed, and the benefits of people and the environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77911	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the motionary Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77912	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased to attend such a rich debate on a ratification of the Convention, which is not so often. And I have to say, I've heard a lot of very good suggestions and an extremely good debate. I especially thank you for that. I think I can only say a few answers that I owe, since I've heard a few suggestions and maybe some criticism. We have only now joined ratification of the Convention, so after a year and a half I can say after it has entered into force. But I have to tell you, we haven't done anything in that part all the time. As I said in the introduction, there is a series of laws that prevent the release into the environment of the most toxic substances mentioned here. And I have to tell you that and in, I don't know if there are any in your materials but we have had a two-year project to launch activities that will allow timely implementation of the Stockholm Convention on Permanent Organic Contaminants in the Republic of Croatia, which is funded through UNIDO. So we were able to use the specific technical assistance given to us by UNIDO. We managed to have consultants, technical consultations, and we didn't turn unprepared for this whole project. So maybe we haven't taken advantage of all the possibilities, but the question is how much resources we could be using by now. And I hope we can make it from now on. But this first part, this preparatory part that runs all these projects, we did it after that project was completed. And what we've done is we're going into this ratification. So this isn't exactly what we've been sleeping all along. As for the GV remarks, the mission's border values in the environment, I can tell you that, that I will make an inventory of everything and we will do what we do in accordance with this Convention. I agree with you that we cannot allow uncontrolled emissions into the environment. But when you burn wastes, we've now brought the Waste Oil Regulation and all these things are being held under, we're trying to keep them under control and our inspections. And this, Your Honor, is not here right now that she mentioned that what we're doing with two local inspectors. I must tell you that unfortunately this hour, this afternoon the secretary at the ministry told us that, in the contest that we have called for inspection, none of those who competed showed up at the very oral interview. We have almost 10 inspectors constantly in circulation, but unfortunately we can't fill them all. Here's me thanking you again for the fruitful debate. And what you have suggested we will surely fulfill in our future work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77913	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77914	Just to correct the secretary of state. This Convention came into force not a year and a half ago but two years and nine months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77915	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77916	Final proposal for a law confirming the Stocholm Convention on Standing Organic Contaminants. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Can we vote? The result? With 93 votes in favour, unanimously passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77917	We move to the sixth point of today's agenda proposal. - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 568 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Therefore, according to the liberalisation plan established during the screening, i.e. the review of the legislation between Croatia and the European Union for the "Freedom of Movement of Capital" chapter, there is therefore a certain gap between the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and this law is in fact the liberalisation of capital transactions and cash payments through three stages. The first phase would begin immediately after the adoption of this law, resulting in the full liberalisation of the investment of residents and non-residents in securities, by abolishing the ban on non-residents' investment in Croatian National Bank's cash registers and the Treasury records of the Ministry of Finance, and by abolishing the obligation of residents of natural persons to purchase foreign securities abroad exclusively through domestic companies. A provision is also repealed with the basis of which the bank had to verify that the rest of the liquidation or bankruptcy was paid in the Republic of Croatia before the payment order was executed abroad from the basis of the payout or any other payment from direct investment. In this respect, since 1.1.2008, therefore, in terms of liberalisation, the obligation to report capital work as a prerequisite for the execution of payment and transfer by these transactions ceases. Since 1.1.2009, complete liberalisation of capital transactions and cash payments has been achieved in a way that ceases to apply the remaining restrictive provisions of the law, which are, above all, a ban on short-term financing of non-residents, the obligation to use foreign financial credits through domestic bank accounts, the ban on opening of residence accounts abroad, the restriction on cash operations between residents and non-residents and restrictions on residents when importing and exporting cash, or material securities across the state border. This draft bill also provides for the treatment of foreign cash suspected of being forged and prohibits the production of sales and imports of medals and tokens similar to forged foreign money. In order to achieve full application of the similarity criteria for exchangeholders, this draft bill extends the scope of criminal offences to be carried out when establishing the similarity of the authorised trader of craftsmen, i.e. the trader, the member of the management of the authorised exchanger of legal persons, as well as their qualified owners. These are given to the Croatian National Bank to assess their similarity on the basis of knowledge from other sources. Therefore, this last provision is first and foremost introduced to introduce as many order as possible on that market and to make the stability of the financial market as possible in this context. In accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, proposes to refer this law to the urgent procedure since the same harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77919	Thank you very much. Do the committees want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77920	Thank you very much. I will try not to repeat what the secretary of state has said but to point out several reasons why HDZ supports this law and by an urgent procedure. First, in the autumn of the amendment of this law, there were certain doubts as to why these or those provisions were contained, especially those concerning the entry into the monetary union, and even when it seemed to me to determine the day-to-day work when we were now establishing this agenda was also a question of why, by urgent procedure and the rest, so here are just a few reasons why I repeat HDZ, support this law. The first law is also to remind, of course, that the first law was passed on the basis of the SAA and that at that time we actually took over part of the provisions that we signed and that often repeated dilemma why we defined or took over one or the other, it is actually a confirmation that we cannot talk about what we signed and took over from that SAA. The second change followed in the fall in November it seems to me last year and that change... were these dilemmas why we didn't or why it was a monetary union and now why by emergency procedure. [[You don't understand.]] The next phase was also the plan for the government to adopt, during this year, the other laws that have been defined, and in the meantime, the screening which has also been defined, completed defined certain obligations that we have to implement. And here in this first phase of liberalisation of certain jobs not to repeat them, the secretary mainly defined and transmitted everything, i.e. liberalising part of the business mainly related to residents and not residents about foreign exchange payments and the obligations of the National Bank and the roles about it not, of course, all the details of what the National Bank will implement in that provision of the law. The second thing that matters is that this law contains I would simplify the definition and say, "try to control money laundering." This is the case with regard to domestic exchanges, so all the conditions for opening work and all those other measures that are necessary in this respect are determined, of course, those measures which sanction the possible non-compliance with such rules. This is another reason why this law needs to be passed and established by that rather clear rule and responsibility for possible abuse. I say again, in part, that can be defined, also defines the role of the Croatian National Bank in the possible counterfeiting of foreign money and the means of making available and all those measures that are related to such a process as is defined. Finally, I would point out another reason, the role of the Croatian National Bank to continue to control foreign exchange transactions through banks actually has the ability to control and here are only two reasons. It was also thought that other information was not required to be provided in addition to the statistical collection of certain foreign exchange operations by the bank. However, the CNB would still have to have the possibility and control of that, and precisely because of those different abuses as well as the possibilities to control off-shore companies in non-residents, as well as the possible others, because all the forms of playing around it I will only remind you that the situation when we had with "Lenca" very unpleasant, when we tried to get any information from the banks around the offshore companies, they all replied that it was a business bank secret. So we haven't had any, there's actually no possibility of getting some bank data in any similar situation. Here's why the CNB has the possibility and actually that possibility should be used in similar conditions. This is also the reason why this law should be adopted with the necessary content and the need to adopt an emergency procedure. Because here's if within this plan because you need it by the end of the year you actually bring it in, then it's a very short period for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77921	Thank you. For the SDP club, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77922	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State Gigman. So this law was originally passed in 2003, then we passed many laws reforming especially the area of finance from the system of payment of FINA, the Law on the Croatian National Bank, about banks, we developed a system of registers which unfortunately do not use enough opportunities. In 2002, a reform of the supervision of the country's financial complete sector began, which now ended well with the HANF and its activity, etc. At the same time, the process towards the European Union has been opened and all of this has been brought into line with it. Therefore, this law is already originally intended to comply with standards as much as possible in 2003 and therefore with the regulation applicable in the countries of the European Union. The changes that are now following, although they cover both the ones and the fixed regulations relating to exchanges, is therefore the right thing to do, is to liberalise capital transactions and attention should be paid to that. Those who deal with finance in the economy and in banks know how important the issue is. In this regard, we would like to highlight some questions. So we respect Mr. Secretary of State that there is a dynamic that, by the end of 2006, I think we should make these amendments that are now being proposed. However, even though I should accept that, we may still consider some more questions. Right now, I don't see the danger of these changes actually being made. It's about non-residents being able to directly enter the securities market, but it's about the vault records that we have about 13, 14 billion or 11 billion are currently even though it can be changed quickly, but the interest rate in the vault records is 3.5 to 4%. And I estimate that there would be no pressure on the capital market, i.e. the securities market on our vault records, and that from there the opening that would result in these changes in foreign exchange operations for Croatia would not be a problem. The issue of cash registers, be careful this is a standard instrument of sterilisation in the Croatian National Bank and government on monetary flows. This instrument is the Croatian National Bank actually uses little or almost no use in this function. Therefore, this problem should not arise to a greater extent. There are some more fake documents. We have, as far as I know in recent years, concluded a number of bilateral agreements on the position of non-residents with other states. By its very existence, it has already addressed some of the questions that we are now dealing with in general by this law. So these are all important questions. In addition, a dozen new countries that have entered the European Union have long accepted this opening of the securities market. They even did it now as much as I know Romania, Bulgaria that is not still inside, including Azerbaijan and some other countries. So all this is about, professionally speaking about the state of affairs in the area of capital transaction liberalisation and currently does not warn about some of the more difficult consequences that would arise, let's say immediately, related to this or at a possible obvious time. However, I still think it's worth thinking about and warning about the following. Look, as my colleague Zigman well knows, we've discussed this before in college, there's a set of macroeconomic variables that can't be avoided in any key equation and it's never possible as in exact physical sciences or natural ones to determine when one of these variables is going to play. For example, if changes in oil prices, energy, relative changes in labour productivity, some other costs, etc., would lead to increased pressure on the cost side, if at the same time it would be impossible to compensate for the productivity in which we are so inferior in terms of productivity and competence, then there is pressure on the interest rates that are difficult to avoid. And then interest rates are one of those 7, 8 variables without which you can't put any equations together and where there's a serious problem. For example, creating such a situation, so I mentioned it in connection with now a sharp jump in energy prices or something else, all together with certain other parameters can lead, for example, to a populational leap in interest rates. If this were to happen, we would get a direct entry of foreign capital that would be possible and welcome, but it would be a direct problem because we would hardly rule the exchange rate policy at that time and such an operation would, for example, lead to a precipice of the kuna. On top of that, there is another important thing, and that is that well-intentioned capital is focused on development, when in such situations of playing domestic variables it is found at a time during the night to turn easily into speculant capital. These are simply familiar things from the capital market and I would therefore, firstly, warn, accepting that it is possible to adopt this right now, I would warn of these deeper aspects of possible changes that easily arise overnight. This is the difference in the monetary sphere, unlike any other in the economy, effects arise overnight. I don't know how much we've seen, that's the first thing. Secondly, we will meet with the right liberalisation in 2008. Then we will also have to liberalise deposit accounts, then there will be a much greater impact on the total capital market, and by 2008, it would be worth taking care of what this complete liberalisation that will then take place, but what could be the dangers of this species that I was talking about. Mentioning only one of the variables that determines relations in the economy. So I think we should pay attention and answer the questions of the following species. How dynamic, by stages, how gradual and how fast and at what stage to do what we can to avoid all possible dangers that I'm talking about, how they're not present right now, but they can arise. Secondly, in particular, we should see what plan of operational activities to develop that by 2008 we are fully prepared to neutralize any pressure that might arise on this basis and would be unfavourable for Croatia's economy. Thirdly, it would be good to develop stable reserve solutions. What I refer to can lead to difficulties for which we must have solutions in advance, in case of open capital transactions. Furthermore, we would also have to develop the instruments of derogation if that is some fourth point, concessions in the case of a capital market problem because it needs to be well ruled. True, we will have little control over it when monetary policy is largely moved to Frankfurt because there is a Central European Bank, but the question is exactly how until then, please, how until the monetary sphere of Croatia is decided in Frankfurt, and it will be quick, how until then to use the monetary sphere and the kuna so that before we perform certain operations in Europe and the European Union and in the monetary union we can use our monetary independence. A number of complications will also occur by having a significant impact on the monetary mass, what will happen in the next period. ... In such conditions, the only deviation in national politics is actually a fiscous and colleague Zigman knows it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it hits us on the monetary side or anyone else, then it's a fiscus that we can only defend ourselves. However, we are here in a pretty bad situation because our budget is objectively large. It has increased in the last 3, 4 years 27, 8, 30 billion kuna and it affects a large mass of what is the result of Croatia's economic activity, in fact too big. To be honest, we made a big problem in this country in 98 when the budget exploded with the unplanned large amount of VAT, and when all expenditures were raised and let colleagues Zigman and Shuker try to cut some of these expenditures won't be able to get anywhere near it. And how will we in such a situation when the budget is huge and at the same time you can't reduce anything, how do we intervene with it that would have the power to withdraw? We don't have that power. Therefore, these questions are very precise and they are all very delicate and have their implications. The question also raises how many Croatian National Banks can regulate capital flows with their acts and activities to neutralize certain moments. There's not enough to talk about here either. Look, our transitional and final provisions here, Article 37(4) and (5), this is about 180 days, but not about these issues that I'm talking about. So it is possible that the transitional and final provisions should provide some of those spare solutions, those deviations, those variations that we hold in our own hands, regardless of how we are pressed by foreign capital that we can simply set ourselves up in relation to this constructively. I'd still like to know what the Ministry of Economy's position is on these issues. Watch out for this very tangling entrepreneurs, businessmen, the capital market. Did they give a certain indication? Whether the Croatian Employers' Association, which will be hit by this, was obvious, etc. That would help us a lot. I wouldn't want to be in it. My colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I was actually going to say that under the current conditions we can adopt these changes, those professionally looking also at the nature of things related to vault records, cash registers, in relation to sterilization of money mass, etc. At this point, nothing will do bad or compromise the functioning of us. However, I've only given you some details here about how things can be very quickly complicated and how we should in these solutions, especially in the final provisions and have more power to be alone within monetary policy while we can still secure the derogations. They're not seen enough so far. If these questions I ask make sense be careful then it would be worth considering whether we could maybe deepen it all together and secure it with certain extra fuses and then eventually do this with just the first reading, and then soon come with another to check things out more, solidify and to definitely be sure of what they're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77923	Thank you. For an individual discussion. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77924	Mr. President, Secretary of State. I also personally advocate that we turn this emergency procedure, even though it is related to the PZ Institute, into the first reading. In fact, one important thing must not be forgotten. The fact is that it leads to the liberalisation of the foreign exchange market, but you know it's not just about it, it's about liberalisation of actually financial capital on the one hand. On the other hand, in our economy it is still too involved with the aspect of carrying entrepreneurial, but also with the ownership-legal powers of the state and in this respect on the one hand, the state will also be as an economic entity and the holder of certain powers, and on the other hand there will be, of course, powerful companies that will open up the possibility of entering this space, where luck is at the same time, and that the country will at the same time actually not be an equal partner in terms of economic effects. At the same time, the state as the holder and the public powers, as the holder of sovereignty, will not be able to intervene through government regulations, nor through ministry regulations and in such a situation, can it be very difficult, i.e. there must be a very unfavourable situation related to the achievement of some of the projects necessary to carry out the transition from the issue of further privatisation to the restructuring and liberalisation of the economic system as a whole. A third thing I would like to mention is impossible to liberalise to this extent the financial capital market, while at the same time not leaving adequate insurance instruments to prevent actually greening, so if you want different forms of system play to obtain inappropriate profits. Fourth. Something very important is happening. These amendments and additions are to comply with European Union documents, but at the same time new powers are given to the National Bank where it does not only coordinate the responsibility and right and obligations towards the banking system and in this respect becomes and remains the Central Bank as it says in the Croatian Constitution but at the same time becomes the holder of more and more financial and public powers that belong to the executive authority now or, if you want, very precisely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For example, if you take certain provisions, you will once see that in Article 29. The proposal to amend and supplement it is said that banks, authorised companies, Central Depository Agency, public notebook, customs authorities, etc. they must provide information, etc. and certain information to the Croatian National Bank. Listen, these are the bodies of the state administration. Where, now, the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority are beginning to be responsible for their work and for providing information to the National Bank, not the Government and the Ministry of Resorts. This should be considered very seriously and see what this is about. The truth about the will of the Croatian National Bank, i.e. the legislator here, says that this is among other things and because these bodies include also public notaries have the best source of statistical data, but gentlemen here we have written in the light of this provision that we do not trust the authorities of the state administration, executive authorities, but actually the holders of public powers that have better maltene data than the State Statistics Office, from the Ministry of Finance, from the Government, etc. Where are we? Look, we need to take care of these things very, very much. It should also be said that there are some changes that, by entering financial, finance and business at once, some of the financial transactions that are on the border and credit operations generally declare the business of the credit... It's something else. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] This, however, should not be so when Article 4 of the amendments and additions are taken. Not all of these financial operations and entrepreneurship activities, always credit operations, which does not mean that they cannot have a dimension of credit operations, but are not and in this respect should also be accounted for. For example, in Article 13 when it comes to liberalisation that needs to be implemented through amendments to sublegal regulation, it is said that you should be careful to liberalise the financial market and the capital markets in Croatia are planned and implemented before the entry into force of this Act, by sublegal acts adopted by the National Bank. Now, look, sublegal acts are brought by the government and the ministry, not the National Bank. In such a situation, the question arises, and why, what are we even going to pass the law if by the end of 2006, as stated here in the explanation of Article 13, the financial market and the capital market will be liberalised by sublegal regulations which will be passed by the Croatian National Bank or what I would like to conclude, which I would particularly like to warn do not and should not happen to get a parallel system of government. What is in the field of law enforcement, ensuring equality and equal application of the law to all market entities must be a matter of state and ministry, and what is the sphere of ensuring that the Constitution says very precisely that the National Bank should be the Central Bank of whose rights and duties are governed by law and where it should actually ensure financial and banking stability. This should be left with full responsibility and full freedom and for the risk of Parliament's business responsibility. It happens here that, in fact, when changes are taken and the National Bank Act is complemented, which is not a direct subject but is directly related to this issue. If you take some powers there, for example, where the Governor of the National Bank is predicted to be responsible to the European Bank and that the Statutes and not laws will be implemented and will not be responsible to the Croatian Parliament, we have received parallel power. And it's not that we got parallel power, it's that we colleagues lost sovereignty in the financial sphere. It will depend on regulation that will be at European level and in this respect a part of the national economy will be significantly shortened and I would like to see you see if anywhere in the European countries that are leading to the need for integration in the European Union at global level whether they have ignored their... lost elements of the national economy and in the financial sphere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, I think it is necessary to find appropriate measures and appropriate content. I'm afraid it won't be a good solution in this respect. And the last thing I'd like to mention for legal certainty. This is Article 37 relating to companies and other legal entities which are authorised exchangers. Look out! Suddenly it is said: first, that within 30 days, they would have to comply with their business with this law and of course acts etc. reregister and if not then enter into force within 30 days they lose... Why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are established under the Foreign Exchange Act, they have their rights, they need to ensure that they actually comply with the amendments and additions of their law, their relations. Well, you can't just do that and legal automation requires him to stop doing business and get out of the register. Well, for God's sake, maybe there's some higher reasons, more powers that can put him in a position not to fulfill that argument, not like this. It says: it will be deleted from the court or trade register based on the Croatian National Bank's solution. Now look what it is. The National Bank will actually implement this issue and will not implement the courts etc. because let us not forget that the solution of the Croatian National Bank is executive. It does not have a delayed function and can possibly be handled by a administrative dispute. Now listen. In the administrative dispute, if it were to win a dispute in the meantime, it would lose its subjective position and position on the market that will lead to it. And secondly, it is important to initiate procedures in the same article until the entry into force of this law will be completed in accordance with the provisions of this law. Yes, colleagues, if that's more favourable for those subjects. It would not be good for it to be at the expense of entities who have already started a job and in accordance with the existing old law. If the old law has allowed them a certain position economically and they have entered into that part of business relations, contractual relations, they have undertaken obligations and they have potentially disputed procedures, then it should always be ensured that the law that goes into the contribution of the entrepreneur or the business entity, and not in this way, actually bring into the position of the entrepreneurial entity to be abolished and in an unfair position, and in addition to being subject to actually the executive authority as the power of the National Bank, rather than as an instrument of ensuring equal legal application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77925	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77926	Dear Sir... The proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Exchange Act is another one in a series of laws that must be brought into line with the acquiss of the European Union. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] In the national programme for joining the European Union in the chapter of freedom of movement of capital, the Republic of Croatia also took the obligation to fully liberalise non-residents' investments in domestic securities by the end of 2006. Since it is the end of the year, I believe that the commitments undertaken must be implemented, or this proposal must be adopted by means of an emergency procedure, because it is in line with the acquiss of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. I would refer to just a few in my opinion the essential features of this proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Exchange Act. It achieves full liberalisation of the investment of residents and non-residents in securities and removes restrictions that existed in the current law. It also allows non-residents to invest in the Croatian National Bank's cash registers and the Treasury records of the Ministry of Finance and delete the provisions under which domestic natural persons and entrepreneurs could carry out securities only through domestic authorised companies. Deleting the provisions on securities transactions on the money market and provisions on transactions with shares in the foreign exchange funds simplifies legislation as this material is regulated under specific regulations. Is it not more logical that securities are regulated by the Securities Act than by the Foreign Exchange Act? The same logic has also led to the erasure of the provisions on business with shares in investment funds under this law. It's an example of H.I.T. Rez. In order to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, this law gives greater attention to the operation of authorised exchangers and prescribes the procedure for verifying and granting authorisation to carry out exchange operations but also extends the scope of criminal measures in the event of violations of the law. The chapter prevents money laundering also extends to foreign cash dealings suspected of being forged. In this regard, the Croatian National Bank is legally obliged to prescribe the way and measures of foreign cash handling suspected of being forged. Similarly, a ban on the production, sale and import and distribution of medals and tokens similar to foreign coins has been regulated. It is precisely because of this liberalisation of investment in securities by the end of 2006 and the implementation of the liberalisation of capital transactions and cash payments by the end of 2008 that I believe that the establishment of the Croatian Financial Investment Supervisory Agency is also a major contribution at the end of last year to the control and supervision of the legality of business both residents and non-residents dealing with this type of financial investment. The founding of HANFA was united by several financial institutions that controlled non-bank financial services. The Securities Commission, the Pension Fund and Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Insurance Society's Supervisory Directorate, and thus we pooled our professional potentials, enabled better flow of information, made it possible to standardise supervision, thereby increasing efficiency, avoided frequent problems with control competence. It is well recalled that HANF is authorised to adopt regulations on the implementation of the Securities Market Act, the Law on Investment Funds, the Law on Privatisation and Investment Funds, the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, the Law on Pension Fund and the Law on the acquisition of stock companies, as well as to monitor the business of the stock exchanges and the regulated public markets of their families and pension funds, investment, privatisation, investment and pension funds, investment funds, privatisation, the Centre Depositary Agency, the Central Insurance Register, the Pension Insurance Society and their family members, brokerage companies, brokers and investment consultants, institutional investors, central depositary agencies, the Central Insurance Agency, the Pension Insurance Association, representatives and brokers in law enforcement, which ensure that they are subject to legal and legal certainty. I think it is good that we have established an independent, independent, legal person responsible in the Croatian Parliament with the aim of promoting and preserving the stability of the system and overseeing legality in the business of surveillance entities. In the conditions of liberalised investment in securities, the role of HANFA is particularly expressed in preserving and strengthening the stability of the overall financial system of the Republic of Croatia. I adhere to those who are determined to address obstacles on their way to the European Union, who are optimistic and who see Croatia in the European Community and the adoption of this law is one of the steps on that path. Reluctance and too long retention on every step is just a waste of energy and time. And that's why I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77927	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Nenadić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review of State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77928	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Here, I'd like to thank you for your fruitful debate, Mr. Representative. In any case, the amendments, therefore, and the amendments to the laws are implemented as I said in three stages, in three periods and each of these periods actually have a significant impact on the situation in foreign exchange. First of all, I would refer to the part relating to this initial part of which was presented by the esteemed representative of the Church is related to interest rates. I would therefore say that by opening and liberalising the purchase of vault records and cash registers of the Croatian National Bank, the Ministry of Finance can only profit and reduce its deficit because it will increase the supply of those who will be willing to buy vault records of the Ministry of Finance, reduce interest rates, reduce the cost of the state and, of course, leave room for the reduction of deficits or for some other important expenditures that can be financed from the budget. In this respect, one such move will certainly contribute to a better macroeconomic economic situation in terms of lower interest rates and lower capital prices and we know how valuable it is for all entrepreneurs. Regarding the conduct of foreign exchange transactions, I must say that all foreign exchange transactions are in fact simply the result of what is happening in the real sector. So, if an foreign investor comes and works here and carries out a certain activity and conducts only foreign exchange transactions, the question is whether the Croatian economy can be protected by banning foreign exchange transactions. It cannot be protected, protected by other instruments and other ways that are the competences of other laws and other institutions. Regarding the supervision of foreign exchange transactions, it should therefore be pointed out that in the last year, HANFA has shown quite a lot of maturity in the management of the financial market, so the last transaction is saying enough, and in this sense they will certainly work to ensure maximum protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, ensure the stability of the foreign exchange system, with a view to enabling the competitiveness of the faster flow of money, a better turnover of money and, in this sense, better economic growth. About the Croatian National Bank I would like to say a few things. The Croatian National Bank has the possibility and is part of the debate that is being discussed, so the situation over surprises, possible crises, possible fluctuations. Therefore, the Croatian National Bank has the possibility to propose to the Croatian Parliament that all foreign exchange transactions be banned for six months. If there is indeed a crisis, if there is a problem, if there is a major capital outflow that could endanger the Croatian economy, there is a legal instrument to prevent such a thing. And in this sense, it must be monetary government, so the Croatian National Bank plays an important role. So related to the parallel system of government. So I would like to say that data collection and data search for the Croatian National Bank is important from several aspects. First, in order to prevent and control possible illegal transactions because if you do not have the data, you do not have the ability to control illegal transactions. So, what we're all fighting for and what we have so many strategies to prevent corruption, prevent money laundering. So all of this together is trying to provide timely and quality data collection to which this law contributes. What is required for exchangeholders to adjust their documentation within 90 days or to provide additional documentation to the Croatian National Bank, so 90 days only to send the documentation, then the Croatian National Bank will see whether or not they have delivered it, and if they have not delivered it, it will go into check but we have to ensure that the exchangers, those who work with large amounts of money really do not be people prone to corruption, that they do not launder money and in that sense that we have one quality healthy and secure financial market, so that when our citizens enter the exchange office, they do not have to think whether they are waiting for counterfeit money or not. So someone who has dealt with some counterfeits can't deal with currency exchanges at the same time. In this context, therefore, Croatian citizens should be provided with secure transactions in exchange offices. When we talk about the European Monetary Union, the European System of Central Banks is therefore something that Croatia is trying to do, and so is the strategy that the Croatian Parliament has drawn up and through the National Committee is implementing, so Croatia's entry into the European Union. At the moment we enter, then the Croatian National Bank will enter the European System of Central Banks in accordance with the current proposed law, which is in the parliamentary procedure and has passed a series of committees, but will continue to monitor banks, oversee financial transactions. In this respect, therefore, certain monetary sovereignty remains. As for the introduction and what the esteemed representative Arlovic said, so which country does not care about some kind of financial independence. So listen, 15 EU member states have introduced the euro. Slovenia will bring him in now. So these are people who have replaced their own national currency with a single European currency and for this are their citizens if necessary and voted and in any case what can be seen in Croatian banks around 70 to 80% of the savings stakes are in the EUR. So, in a certain way, citizens have given trust to a single currency. In that sense, I would only say in the end that the government remains in the process of maintaining the law in an emergency procedure and I would thank again for the fruitful debate of all MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77929	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with a debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming. Then the Final Proposal for a Law on Weapons and the Final Proposal for a Law on Animal Protection. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Secretary of State, Ante Zigman. Here you go. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77931	The Government accepts the amendment since the provisions of the article...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77932	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. A little louder, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77933	All right. So the government accepts Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77934	It becomes an integral part of the law. Other, to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77935	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77936	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third, Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77937	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77938	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77939	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77940	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifth, Article 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77941	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-11-23-0.u77942	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it! Can we vote? ... Well, guys, my microphone's not working. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's weak by hand. To be shaken by electricity. It wouldn't work. I am voting on the Act of Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. Let's vote Manually. [[Intruder: Manually.]] Who's in? What now? Thank you. Against? The abstentions...... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Okay, so where's... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Go upstairs to the gallery, gentlemen. Well, don't you see... And the people of God are... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now they say it's a good electronic vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's try it electronically, then we'll go because it means it's okay? Let's get on with it! Can we vote? We vote electronically, come on! Yeah. The result? With 86 for, 2 abstentions and one against the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm opening a session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 569 Proposer of the Law is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on European Integration. I'd like the president of the club, on behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
