ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71751	Thank you, Mr. President, there is no representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues. With this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the SDP Court Act, it wants to correct the existing law that has experienced the last amendments, which, just in December 2005, some illogicalities have occurred, but also some contradictions, but also some solutions that have not been clarified until the end. In fact, it is quite clear that at the end of the day this and the Government in their Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Courts which was essentially the law yesterday, i.e. the bill of law was discussed, and here today it is quite accidentally debated about this SDP proposal as if it was the main thing yesterday, and this is the pertination of the pendant and the casual thing. However, here is the truth that works and the public needs to be told that the government intervened with the changes, but not in a sufficient way exactly in the SDP club initiative, or in the submission of this SDP proposal. However, we look forward to it because the government has yet come forward with its own proposal, but in this proposal of the Law on Courts which they propose, which the Government proposes, there has not been any necessary changes to correct all ambiguities, all contradictions, and also contradictions. We can agree that following the adoption of the Law on Courts of a Standard in their interpretation, it has led to some difficulties, but the last amendments to remind ourselves of one of the most important newspapers were the introduction of a judicial obligation to report their assets after the entry into office. We have also talked about how the principle of the amendment of the proposed amendments, after which it was adopted, would not apply to those judges who had entered into office before the entry into force, but only to judges appointed to those officials appointed after the entry into force of that law, however, the promoter did not want to hear that remark, so here is the fact that when the application of that provision came, it was seen that the SDP Club was right and now the Government, with its proposal for a law that is identical to the SDP proposal, explicitly introduces the standard under which it is now quite evident that all the judicial officials, so all judges are obliged to submit their property reports. However, the problem will happen again, the public problem and communication with the public, and we care very much, and I think that it should be just to suggest that he cares, especially in the implementation of reforms and the repression of corruption and corruption doubts, especially within the judiciary itself, in order to remove such doubts because here we see also the promoter, or the government often says that this perception of corruption in the judiciary is greater than that of corruption indeed does. However, such a finding will not improve but rather by its own acts and deeds. What the SDP club proposes is one consistency. If judicial officials are obliged to submit property cards, i.e. property reports, it is not for the purposes of the Ministry of Justice itself that has no authority or only the Ministry of Justice, so as to be the administration, nor the judicial officials, or the Presidents of Judges over Judges, nor the Presidents of the lower level courts, because these property cards will remain unknown to the current and proposed Government and the purpose and purpose of the submission of property cards will be lost. That is why the SDP club wants to be consistent in this regard with the public, that these property cards are submitted for public imagery. The public has the right to know otherwise the norm is itself and such an obligation is in itself unnecessary and pointless. Once again, the government itself has been deluding and deluding the public, because today we have seen in the media, and constantly this time since the government itself was instigating the SDP club itself with its own amendments to the existing law, there is a public interpretation of something that does not stand out of the Government's proposal, while the government rejects SDP's proposal. So, it's not true and this, here's what I want on behalf of the SDP club, it's not true that according to the government's proposal it'll be possible to have an insight into judges' property cards in this way. No, because they only posterize the Department of Justice. What the Ministry of Justice will do with this remains completely secretive and unclear. The SDP Club proposes that since the judicial officials are officials, since the established panel for the prevention of conflicts of interest for all officials is then, as we already have, such a body that also costs taxpayers, then there is no obstacle to the fact that such obligation that has now been established for judges be so far through and presented to all other officials that these property cards are then stored not only in the ministry but in the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which then has certain powers to act. But the greatest power and the greatest meaning and message is to face the public. The public knows how much the benefits of judicial officials are. We still do not have a certain standard of procedure through the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest but it seems that already one general political maturity has arrived what all countries have and not only Europe but the entire world authority of individual institutions in the country to compare property with income. So the government's talking again and it's making each other. And once again I point out, it is not true that in this way the public will have insight into the property of judges. They won't, because they'll be barricaded at the Justice Department who doesn't have any authority to present these property cards or property reports to the public. So, then why exactly and why all the noise? Obviously, there would be an impression that doesn't correspond to reality. Also, what the SDP Club wants to correct in its Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and what happened in the last Government amendments, we believe it is inadmissible where it is provided for in one illegal way to bring a mistrial to the municipal court. In fact, it is quite clear, and I would like to point out on behalf of the SDP Club that the courts are being abolished or established only by special law and not by the will of the Secretary-General. It was never in the history of the Croatian judiciary, nor when we were part of a single state with others. So it's about an illegal and anti-constitutional provision that needs to be corrected. I note, by the way, that the SDP Club has stood up before the Constitutional Court precisely as regards this standard, an existing requirement for the assessment of constitutionality. However, here is the view that it is time and opportunity and opportunity when it comes to the amendments to the Law on Courts that we do not burden the Constitutional Court and that we, as legislators, correct it here on the basis of the constitutionality of our obligation to protect and defend the Constitution. Article 158(2) of the existing law also laid down the procedure of the Constitutional Court in December 2005 and, therefore, in the case of courts, that Article. That's inadmissible. No lower act than the Constitution or the Constitutional Law may or may not determine the jurisdiction and conduct of the Constitutional Court. The jurisdiction and conduct of the Constitutional Court is determined by the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and their procedural rules. Therefore, these amendments seek to ensure the constitutionality of this law by eradicating such a provision. I note, too, that the SDP Club has submitted an assessment of the constitutionality and the assessment of the constitutionality of this provision. However, I would also point out that this is an opportunity to correct with this bill such an inadmissible counter-constitution that has taken place with these last amendments. And what I would particularly like to point out at the SDP Club is that we also have one seemingly nomotechnical error that also took place in the latest amendments to the Law on Courts, which we propose to correct, which is that the appointment of judges is not done through competition but through advertising. Here, however, the Government observed such a cardinal error in its proposal, and in its proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts, there was also a correction of such a norm. In particular, it also points out that the act of the Minister on the appointment of the President of the Courts and later of the State Judicial Council on the appointment of judges is not an administrative act, but rather an act of authority. That's what you say now. Now, that's where the government listened to the SDP Club, and it's been prescribed. However, we insist on these amendments concerning the amendments to the Law on Courts as regards the correction of certain cases or in these two cases of counter-constitution. It's something inadmissible. And these amendments, therefore, to the Law on Courts, are and are necessary, it is necessary to take place only six months after the adoption of the Law on Courts. It is one of the fundamental laws in the judiciary, so it is unacceptable for the Ministry of Justice to access such a non-chalant way of amending the Law on Courts and for such cardinal errors to occur. This does not therefore speak of one seriousness and the weight of a job or of the virtue of a job. One more thing I would like to point out in particular, and this is a recent piece of information just ten days ago that Croatia unfortunately and after the government published its new National Anti-Corruption Strategy, no place has moved. By the way, she's slipped another place now, and we're even behind Serbia. That's one alarming piece of information. And therefore, rather than the Government and the resolute minister publicly saying that this perception is unworthy, that corruption has less than what perception really is, it would be better if it, as well as the complete government, had its own actions, its own spells and work to show that they cared enough about the fight against corruption. In this way by rejecting this norm, this SDP proposal that we want to be consistent with right now when the judicial officials are also obliged to publish property cards that they are also serving precisely to make the public aware of it. I say it's denied. Therefore, it is not a sign of strengthening the fight against corruption or fighting for one better place, even if it is perception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71752	Thank you. The Justice Committee. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71753	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 45th session held on 13 July 2006, he discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Representatives' Club by an act of 18 May 2006. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Introducing the applicant, an explanation was given, for which reason is the law in question proposed, and what issues are being regulated by the same law? In the discussion, the Committee members had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 6 July 2006 which is not supported by the law in question. They supported the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since the proposed solutions from the SDP Club's legal proposal were contained in amendments to the Law on the Courts of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, with 5 votes for and 2 votes against, the Committee decided not to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the text as proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71754	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71755	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. All two, three sentences. There must be absolutely no doubt. Judges have to file property cards and I don't understand why they shouldn't have done it by now. All public officials should also, all directors of public enterprises, all those employed in local self-government should not only be mayors, mayors, mayors should also employees of the public media so that the anthems from the Croatian Parliament are removed once. We're being treated not to say that it's no wonder when, say, as the secretary of state tried yesterday, it means the state administration itself, I mean here on State Secretary, determines the salaries and as the lowest value determines the MPs. To be clear, I'm not asking for a representative to have any more kuna than they're carrying out our salaries at this point. But I wish we were at least "vis avis" of the material conditions of working in the same position as the State Secretary, as judges, as assistant ministers and I won't spend a word on some directors of public companies because we can only dream of such status. Why am I saying that? I'm only saying it for one reason because I'm fighting for the dignity of this House. If we question this, then it is also parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia. If, on the other hand, everyone in this country had working conditions such as the parliamentary representatives, and we are considered to be one privileged caste, then simply life in Croatia would stop. Something else, I don't know, I'm not even gonna talk about it from my cell phone. It is as clear as Mrs Anticevic said that the judge must monitor all the infrastructure because otherwise it cannot work. But if we don't speak the same way about ourselves, then with full right others will speak of us as they do with justice. I agree with that. Judges file property cards. I wish the MPs were in that position as well as they are. That they have some opportunities like those from the assignment of apartments and so on, but about that other occasion, but what I'd like even more is for these people to judge their own, means to themselves, to judges and others, and not for the same act, perhaps because of solidarity they don't touch themselves without knowing others, to tear off their skins. For example, several judges in Istria bought real estate like Jakovčić, as bought in Croatia tens of thousands of people from 1954 to 1997, but they were excluded from the package. Nota Bene and President of Parliament, not Mr Shakespeare, one of the former Parliament presidents here in Grožnjan bought one plot in the same way, but clearly some are touched, some are not touched. However, regardless of all this legal proposal of the SDP Club should be supported and this, this comment on freedom for ministers to join misdemeanor and municipal courts themselves is something as Mrs Anticevic says, it exceeds the tradition of these spaces and what should be removed as soon as possible, delete.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71756	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71757	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the SDP Club, I have to say that I am sorry that the government and the committees have rejected this law under the pretext that the government has settled it with its legal solution. Unfortunately, it is not because there is no guarantee that the property cards of Croatian judiciary workers will be published in public. We believe that the public is actually the only good correction, the only good defense against all irregularities, and the fact is that judges should, as well as all other state officials, give their property cards and their property status to the Croatian public the moment they become judges, because the fact that in research or analyses "Transparency International" dealing with the assessment and state of corruption in a country is the most common among several systems of health and justice as a place of very high corruption. The fact is also that in Croatia, because we do not have certain mechanisms to control all those who perform certain public functions that happen to us only when a daily or weekly paper comes out with a story we see that some judges have extremely large assets and when you add up two and two, when you add up their salaries and salaries of their women, it is certain that such enormously high assets could not have come through the normal path. Therefore, the only way to put an end to this is to the public and therefore the SDP has proposed this law in which judges should give property cards the same way as the parliamentary representatives and ministers in the government and many others and some other public then has under their eyes the attention and control of the movement of their assets and I think it is the only good way to fight bribes and corruption in this country and those who instead of working on the benefit of citizens and this state are actually working on their own benefit. I hope so much that this Parliament, regardless of what has been given the red light from the government in this House, will be given support from all those who have fought against bribery and corruption in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71758	Thank you. Final review would you like? Would you like to see the final review by the promoters? Proposer of the club Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71759	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, maybe just another sentence. Maybe here's why we're here, not waiting for the government itself who's proposing a similar but not an identical proposal. I will, in particular, stress only now this fact that the will of the legislator at that time was our will regarding the property cards that this applies to all judges, to all judicial officials because of a certain irregularity or incompetence of the motionor. We, like the SDP Club, reacted at the time. The government did not listen, so on this trail the obligations of all judicial officials are identical. But they differ significantly in the next step and in the next sense of these property cards. As for all officials, the obligation to report property, whether as property cards or property reports, now makes only sense here for officials if it is a sub-prime of the public and I still want to say one single sentence. It is not true what the Government or Madam Minister says, that the proposal will put the Government's proposal right in the eyes of the public in the property of judges. That's not true. Either it is not known what is proposed or deceived by the public and I do not know what is more difficult and worse here, and therefore once again we draw attention to this and suggest that, on our own and for the sake of this norm, I will not repeat and explain the other articles now, the other two articles in our Bill proposal will be consistent and here you will accept this SDP proposal, and of course on the trail of public expectations, the more the public has been increasingly critical of the judicial authorities and, of course, justifiably dissatisfied with the slowness, the ineffectiveness of functioning, the degree of perception of corruption applies to the judiciary itself. And for the sake of such interests, it's the state's interests exactly and our commitment to fighting corruption, so let's show that we really mean it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71760	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. The Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts proposed by the SDP Representatives Club is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 66 for, 3 abstentions, 28 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71763	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP in the direction of forming a central state office for prisoners and missing persons in the Republic of Croatia. What made us decide to take this step? About three months ago, we held a quality debate here about the report, about the search for prisoners and missing persons in Croatia for this period of several years, and then we at the SDP Club showed some dissatisfaction with the pace and mode of work of existing services, i.e. the organisational structure of the services of seeking prisoners and missing persons as well as the exhumation affairs, and especially the question of identifying the remains of Croatian defenders and civilians in the Republic of Croatia. We all agreed, and this is often the case in the Croatian public and reiterates that this problem is one of the most important humanitarian issues in Croatia, because many families of Croatian defenders and civilians, which is about 2,000 people plus 580 remains that have been lying in common graves in Zagreb and Osijek waiting for the truth about their loved ones for years. It is particularly interesting that the Association of Families Incarcerated and Missing on several occasions expressed dissatisfaction with the existing work of the existing Administration for Detained and Missing within the framework of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and I believe that this is sufficient reason for us to begin to consider whether this existing establishment is then the most impoverished response to all the tasks that have been put before it and therefore we are now going with this proposal to amend the Government Act where the objective is to accelerate the process of finding the missing, the process of exhumation as well as the process of identification. Let me remind you, between 2000 and the end of 2003, there was a special Government Office for Detained and Missing, and I believe by that act that they were removed, that most of the problems that were in the work of the then government commissions were removed by '99. the year was present, and these were problems simply coordinating different institutions, bodies that in this complex process of finding missing exhumations, identification were necessary to link. It's a different 10-year state body or institution. And that was often especially in the '90s for various reasons that didn't work very well. The ministry's authorities have often coincided. There were also certain competitions between individual ministries and mistakes. It was therefore decided that most of the jobs should be transferred to the then state, the government's office for prisoners and missing. The concentration of rights, the concentration of financial resources in one place, but at the same time the concentration then and responsibility for the job done. We all agreed here to discuss the report of the prisoners and the missing that the leading man of this entire project, if I may call it that, has been Colonel Grujic for 15 years to do his job well. We all figured that out. However, our view that information from the ministry itself, that from associations that come to us, which could have been, I apologized, which could have been read and in the means of public communication suggested that certain problems existed. Now it's just a question of whether we want to get rid of them or if we're going to pretend they're gone, so long as it lasts. I note that, in 2004, it means that the Government's Office for Detained and Missing has been transferred to the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. He became one of the administrations in that ministry. About a month ago, I was listing that political guide and I counted all the administrations in all the ministries, I probably couldn't quite count it because there were both the secretariats and the rest, but only the administrations if you count the heads of the ministers I counted 105 on. So the Assistant Minister, Mr Grujic, for this is one of the most important humanitarian issues in Croatia as we always say, either from the left or from the right is one of the hundred and five assistants. Which we consider to be a kind of degradation of not that person but of the whole service. And so we think again, not because this power is right now, but we've considered it before, we're going to consider it now, and we're going to consider it in two years or six years, it doesn't matter. It is necessary to establish a special government body to carry out these responsible tasks, regardless of the changes in political administrations. It won't change anything strategically, I believe it won't. The additional reason is also interesting to read what are the tasks of the Administration for Detained and Missing within the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. I got that name from the Ministry's pretty weird, but well, let's just leave it to the side. So, doing professional work relating to the search for prisoners and missing persons from the Homeland War and exhumation and identification of post-mortem remains, etc., etc. So the emphasis is on the Homeland War. That's fine. It's part of the Ministry of Family and Defence, which is fine. But the report we adopted here three months ago talked about the discovery of missing, imprisoned Croatian defenders, but also of a native war civilian, as well as members of other troops who were killed in the Homeland War, as well as the discovery of missing, exhumation and identification of the victims of World War II. So far one spreads a complex that surpasses this well-organized family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. These are jobs that will be done for the next 10, 20, 30 and 40 years. That's how it is in all the countries that came out of the war, unfortunately that's how it is. That's probably how it's going to be in Croatia. It means finding a Croatian defender, a civilian, all the victims of the Homeland War, and that's about 2,000 people. The question of the identification of postmortem remains, we currently have 587 3 months ago, was in the tombs of joint Osijek and Zagreb. And then there's the question of World War II as much as, how much of a business does anyone know? And that is why we think it is necessary to form a special central state office that will be working on these jobs for the next decades, regardless of what I say, not all changes to the administration yet. Always a leader can come, go, or come a new one, but it doesn't matter. But the service must be deprived of these permanent preambles. After a year, a year and a half after the government's office was transferred to the Office for Detained and Missing in the ministry, the need to form a special commission was shown. I have to take this liberty, I hope it doesn't attack me again, because the function of the opposition is that sometimes something is critical. I hope we're at this stage of democracy's development, which is if you don't know how to do something then form a commission. And thank God in this period of administration of the current government we have a whole series of committees. The commission was one of the solutions after this administration was formed. All right, based on the requirements of associations that were dissatisfied with the pace of work and mode of work. However, a commission containing representatives of a dozen different institutions cannot be effective. It may make some strategic decisions, but there is a government to make strategic decisions, there is a prime minister, there is his biggest team. These jobs don't require a commission. The Commission should carry out operational tasks at operational and tactical level, on a daily basis. However, this commission, meaning from July 2005 to today, means this year probably has met several times, and then logically questions about what the effectiveness of this commission is, and according to the information we get, it's not much of a question. And because jobs have to be done every day, it takes a concentration of all powers in one place. All powers, and it is clear that then it is easier to determine the responsibility if things are not done as they are done. The government's three-page explanation, on page and a half, is just a description of everything that's been done, and I say the biggest steps are made in the 2000-2003 period. And the finding that the existing structure in doing these jobs is good. I think they could at least try harder then show that a certain step has been made in these two years. Of course they didn't, because unfortunately there's no stepping out. So this is the SDP's proposal in the ultimate good faith proposed without any need for politicisation. In any case, it is good to hear that a particular problem exists, so perhaps even if the Government does not accept it now, it will remain written that the problem has been marked, and this is also an opportunity for each of us to take a little more into account in the next period of time about this problem of prisoners and missing persons, except for that daily repetition, it has already become a mantra, that this is the most important humanitarian issue in the Republic of Croatia, and now this is an opportunity to show that we are really interested that this issue, the biggest humanitarian issue in Croatia, is starting to be better addressed. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71764	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71765	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the SDP club, Pancic said what and why we were going to change this law. I would like to say that the administration must not, in any case, be an obstacle to the efficient work of those who work to search for the remains of those who died in the aggression against Croatia. The fact is, we're a highly bureaucratized country, and if there's a problem, then we need to solve it. When it went into the reshuffle of the government, we warned that the abolition and relocation of certain administrations and central offices would create certain problems in their more efficient work and obviously we were right about the abolition of the central office, so for the prisoners and the missing. The fact is also that defence associations have sought because they believe that they are not doing enough to find the prisoners and the missing, they have asked for something to be done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and what has therefore been done by the establishment of one commission as an advisory and expert inter-resorial body of the Government for issues of prisoners and missing persons. It doesn't seem to us that this will solve the problem either and that the search for prisoners and missing will be more effective and therefore we ask that the Office return to prison and missing. The fact is also that in this budget rebalancing we could see very little spending on two items, on the items held and missing where only 11% were spent and on the items exhumed by victims from the Homeland War, to which only 7.7% of the funds were spent. It also explains enough and shows that in that part very little has been done lately. Parents who have lost their children and those who seek their loved ones with the pain they suffer from the disappearance and search for their loved ones are certainly in pain and that they have no place to light a candle and cannot properly bury their dead. I don't have any information, and I'd like to have as a representative, as for example. The demand for imprisoned and missing attachments in communication between the two presidents, Croatia and Serbia, as discussed in the talks between the two prime ministers, Croatia and Serbia, because, according to all the information we receive through the media, it is evident that most likely that a large number of people have been killed and buried somewhere in graves in Serbia. This is why it is very important to communicate and insist that everything on their part is done to allow exhumation in their area, but also what is much more important, and said where these tombs have been, pointed out them, because neither can our office do much until it finds out where the sites where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been killed in aggression are buried. In order to help still a very large number of parents of all those who seek their loved ones who have disappeared in the Homeland War and who cannot get to the remains of the dead and to bury them with dignity, we suggest that, therefore, we re-establish the Government's Office for Detained and Missing, that some of his powers be restored to him and that we be much more effective in this way. And I'd just like to say one more thing on behalf of the SDP Club. This is no politicizing, this is just our desire to help make this issue much more done if administration is an obstacle, and according to what we can see at the request of defense associations, it is obvious that the new government reshuffle and certain administrative decisions are an obstacle and a barrier to the work of people who have been in charge for years to search for prisoners and missing. And that is why I hope that this Law in the Croatian Parliament will receive support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71766	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a final review? Dear Representative Ivica Pancic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71767	Here, just a few words. The debate wasn't very rich, but good. Next time there may be a debate on the report, it will be an opportunity for me to monitor what kind of debate will be, especially when television cameras are on fire. It's a good thing this isn't being transmitted yet because right now, good doesn't matter, because it's precisely our desire to solve the problem or start solving it. Not that we ring all bells all over Croatia because it will certainly not solve any problem of 2,000 missing persons in Croatia or will not contribute to any identification of these remaining 580. And that was our real intention, and I hope it leaves a mark, no matter how this proposal goes in the vote. If it doesn't, because it's important that we started the issue, that we pointed out that the existing administration for prisoners and missing, not because it's run by people who don't want to do it, not because the head of the ministry is that person, but simply because it's such a conjecture administration that makes it impossible to solve these problems more effectively. We know, that's how it was, once again, until 99, and it tried to get rid of it in the period 2003. Another reason why I think it's good to form a Central State Office. A colleague, Opacic, mentioned the meetings of the president of the two states. A lot of secrets are hidden in the Republic of Serbia. Between, therefore, Mr Mesic and Mr Tadic, between our Prime Minister, Mr Sanader and theirs, are certain to speak of these issues. I believe that there is, on the other hand, at least in individuals, a political will to move towards resolving open issues, but now we come to the next step. When it comes to realising it, it's not good for these jobs to be run by the vice president of the government. It's not good for the minister to run it either. This must be done at the operational level, in line with the level of officials' position on the other side or on the third side if we are talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because that triangle of Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina hides most of these secrets. And for this reason, we believe that the Central Office with a top man at that level is far more operational to resolve these issues because when the Heads of State or Government make a political decision, then at this second level it is not necessary to re-examine the issues already the problem needs to be solved. And so I really know something, I don't know much about it, but I know something about these problems, and really my belief, and the SDP club is that they would be more effective in this matter of finding prisoners, missing persons, identifying the problem of exhumation that it is necessary, meaning, to make changes in the existing government, or to form a Central State Office for Incarcerated and Missing. And I am sorry that there are no representatives of the government here, even if they say we are wrong once more, except for what they wrote or to come out with some additional information that will reciprocate all of what we have said because it would certainly be the Croatian public, and certainly also the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, interested in hearing what has been done in these additional months. Because it's good to discuss this problem of prisoners and missing persons, I suppose regardless of which club some proposals came from, whether they come from the SDP, HSP, HSS, IDS or HDZ, I believe that all of them would be on track to speed up these processes so that the families of the defenders, the other civilians in Croatia would find out the truth as soon as possible about their loved ones. There, that direction was this SDP Club proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71768	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71769	Thank you, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague, Pancic, about 2,000 people still wanted. I think that's a thousand and forty. You said 2,000 just now. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-07-13-0.u71770	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed by the SDP Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, reports by the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 64 votes in favour, four abstentions and 27 against the proposed conclusion.
