ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74051	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Assembly! As regards the 2005 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, I would stress the following: For the introduction, I can say that the report you have in front of you is materially rich according to the usual status data of the pension insurance system based on intergenerational solidarity with the presentation of statistical data and with a detailed analysis of the situation. The report also contains a number of information on the organisation of the professional service of the Institute, on human resources, information technology of the Institute, the financial operations of the Institute, the review of the portfolio of the Institute on 31 December 2005, and contains information on the exercise of the right and the work of the professional service of the Institute. The report shall also include a review of the implementation of the report year's work programme. What he would point out is that the report also contains a series of tables and charts with comparative data, and in particular that the report is redesigned in order to be more transparent, simpler and content-rich. The state of the pension insurance system is a little short on that. The pension insurance system, as we know, constitutes a legal framework that regulates the way insurance, risk of age, disability and death, as well as administrative and institutional arrangements for the implementation of pension insurance. The importance of our pension system in the economic, social and political life of the Republic of Croatia is clearly reflected in the number of insurance companies paying a contribution to pension insurance in the number of pensioners and members of their families living on pension, as well as the amount of pension insurance expenditure and their share in gross domestic product. As regards the share of total pension insurance expenditure in the gross domestic product in 2005, the share was 11.92 gross domestic product and over the past few years we know that it was one of the significant factors in the growth of public spending in the Republic of Croatia. However, I must point out that the continued slight drop in the share of pension insurance expenditure in the gross domestic product where, for example, if we look back here in 2001, these costs were around 13.87 means almost 14%, it appears that there was a more favourable movement in this part of the pension system and that the slowed growth of public consumption in this segment. So it's in the pension system. The second characteristic indicator of the status of the pension system is the ratio between the number of insurance and pensioners. On 31 December 2005, the pension was received by a total of 80,000 and 571 beneficiaries of the pension and at the same time registered a million 498 thousand 877 insurance companies, representing a ratio of 1 to 1.39 persons of pension and insurance. The total number of persons eligible for retirement in 2005 was 47 000 and 50 pensioners, which is an increase in the number and inflow of new users by 16.14% compared to the previous year. It means 2004. As regards the level of pensions relative to salary, the average pension in 2005, of course reduced by taxes and a cut with an added bonus of 100 kuna plus 6% was a thousand 848 kuna and 12 limes, which accounts for 41.32% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in December 2005. However, the conclusion is that despite the increase in the number of pensioners in 2005 compared to 2004 and earlier, not only had negative trends stopped but the ratio of the number of persons employed stabilised compared to the number of pensioners and increased. For example. in the last 5 years, this ratio has moved at a level of 1.36 or 1.37. In fact, according to the current state only illustratively this year at 9 months, we have data that this ratio is 1.42. This is at least as far as this work is concerned, as far as pension insurance is concerned, the safest proof that the Republic of Croatia's economy is still on the rise. As regards the financing of the pension system, pension insurance is financed from the current payment of contributions and revenues from the state budget covering expenditure on pensions achieved under more favourable conditions and specific regulations and the lack of first pillar income is also financed due to the introduction of the second pension pillar, that is the amount of 5%. He's getting paid in the second column, it's so-called. the transition cost of pension reform. Total pension insurance revenues for 2005 including pension funds and pension benefits from Croatian defenders from the Homeland War amounted to €27 billion and increased by 4.6 compared to 2004. In the total revenue structure for 2005, the revenues from the contribution amounted to 57.6% and the revenues from the state budget were 42.1%, with 0.3% remaining. As regards revenue from the budget, it is purely illustrating that we know that this part of the funds to finance specific laws, the Law on increasing pensions to remove differences in various pensions achieved in different periods, then pensions of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, pensions made under more favourable conditions, compulsory insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings the second pillar and one part refers to that addition of the 100 kuna plus 6%. It was the Pension Fund Transfer Act and we know that it was included in the pension in 2004. Total expenditure in 2005 for the year 2005 was 27 billion and 298 million and increased by 5% compared to 2004. In the expenditure structure, pension expenditure and pension income amounted to 97.8% or 26 billion 703 million, while the remaining operating expenditures of the professional service and compensation to the institutions for the payment of pension. In percentage terms, pensions and pension incomes achieved under the general rules account for 75% and pensions made under more favourable conditions and special regulations account for around 25% of the total expenditure on pension insurance and pension income. Peace and pension income by regular harmonisation increased by 4.6% from 1 January 2.3 and from 1 July 2.2, which required close to 900 million kuna. For the sake of comparison with some European countries, it should be noted that and this is the parameter used in the European Union countries that the share of the average working pension in Croatia means working pensions for a man of 40 years and at 65 years of age was 62.37 and that we can note that, in this respect, when we look at this parameter, the Republic of Croatia does not lag behind significantly for some European countries. We can mention Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Germany and Sweden ranging from 63% to 71%. What is important, what I would certainly like to mention about this chapter is that the Republic of Croatia, as well as other European countries, also have a negative trend and that is that unfavourable demographic movements not only in our country but also in other European countries have an unequivocally long-term impact on the increase in the number of pension beneficiaries and, of course, on an indirect basis and on the level of pension. As regards the work of the Institute’s professional service, I will point out, the Institute is a public institution established by the Pension Insurance Act with the task of carrying out compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. However, in particular, we can say in the last two years with our regular jobs, which are the reason for the law and the establishment, the Institute is still performing and performing other tasks. Of course, this does not apply to an allowance, meaning it carries out the tasks of carrying out allowances for children in whom this right is being reviewed each year, it decides on the demands of new users. On December 31st, there were 236 thousand 986 children's extras for 445 thousand 954 children. The Institute also implements the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, implements the Law on the Law on the exercise of the right to the pension insurance of persons employed and authorised officials, as well as other laws that specifically regulate pension rights, such as the right of representatives, the rights of former political prisoners, academics and others. The Institute has also carried out, this is what is particularly important lately in relation to the implementation of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May '98. and carried out the calculation of the compensation to pensioners which created the conditions for implementation in the life of that law as well as the Retirement Fund Act and hence for the final implementation of that Constitutional Court decision. As for the very work of the professional service, I must point out the following. As part of the implementation of pension insurance in 2005 there were close to 600,000 different pension insurance rights requirements and allowances for children of which were solved close to 87%, 86.4%, with the emphasis being made that the number of applications, several things, was increased within two months by 13.17% compared to the previous year. Although the Institute has also done a number of extraordinary jobs compared to the number of requirements resolved in 2004 in 2005, 3.2% more were resolved. A particular shift in the resolution of the application was made in the implementation of international social insurance contracts and 17% of the claims were resolved more than in the previous year. This is the result of the adoption of an emergency programme applicable at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office which sets out the standards in the operation of deadlines for the implementation of each part of the work process with precise monthly reporting deadlines. Of course, these results can be better and purely illustrating for the half-yearly, for half of 2006 they can only point out that these results are further improved compared to 2005. During 2005, the Institute also paid pensions for 67,000 317 people abroad of which the highest pension was paid in Bosnia and Herzegovina, over 22,000, then in Serbia-Montenegro, Slovenia and Macedonia and in other European and non-European states, just over 17 thousand pensions were paid. In 2005, the Institute carried out other than its regular affairs and a series of extraordinary tasks given to it in relevance under the Law of the Republic of Croatia. Here I would highlight the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families where more than 40,000 legal translation procedures have been conducted and preparatory actions have been carried out for the implementation of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and the implementation of the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of Croatia's decision since 12 May 1998. The application of the Law implementing the Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 1998 included 677 thousand pensioners for whom the Office established the difference between the corresponding amount and part and the amount of pension benefits paid in order to determine the right to compensation and the right to compensation was established for a little more than 426 thousand cases. The Institute also collected, on the basis of the Retirement Fund Act, or an organised collection of statements by pensioners on the method of payment of compensation, the settlement of objections and the information of interested parties on their possible right of compensation. One important area in the work of the Institute is certainly work on redesigning and modernising the Institute and I think I should mention something about it. In June 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the study "The Foundation of the Reconstruction of the Institute" which launched a major work on the reconstruction and modernisation of the Institute. The purpose is to transform the Institute into a modern public institution for the implementation of pension insurance, to raise the level of quality of services provided by the Institute to its users, to reduce the duration of the procedure for the exercise of rights and to reduce the cost of business. That's, that's the goal. As a result, a number of activities were carried out by the Institute in 2005 as part of the activities of the Institute. The start of work on a redesigned business process that will result in the change of organisation and the current functional organisation, turn the organisational structure into a process where a clear division between basic activities will be the means of carrying out pension insurance and support activities. The establishment and implementation of measures to increase awareness in the resolution of the request, as these are our basic tasks which have already yielded the first results according to the above-mentioned figures. Continual doing business making registrant material because we are a house that creates huge, huge amounts of documentation,... For example, approximately 12 million documents with the natural modernisation of archiving and the work to establish a long-term documentation policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to point out that as part of its modernisation, the Institute has introduced electronic business as part of the project "E Croatia", and the first service is an electronic insurance application. Of course application, checkout and change in insurance. So in this segment the Bureau has made a huge step and there is no need for those who meet the conditions to come physically to the counter of the Institute. I can do it by electronic means. I have to say about this, for this project: that in our environment, there is no transition state and there are also many countries of the European Union that have this service and others that this is the first public document to be submitted by electronic means in the Republic of Croatia. All of these activities were carried out in accordance with its work programme and within the envisaged scope and within the legal deadlines with an estimated number of employees, we increased the number as in 2004 by about 20 employees. I would like to point out in particular that the State Audit Office in its report on the audit carried out for the first time in the history of the Institute gave an unconditional opinion on the work and business of the Institute. As far as this is concerned, I will only briefly point out that a number of organisational and other measures were needed to achieve the result that we have developed a programme to remove irregularities, and this ultimately resulted in an unconditional opinion on the work and business of the Institute. As regards the organisation of human potentials briefly, the professional service is organised on a territorial basis in the central service and field service with outposts. The central service shall carry out secondary procedure and procedure of course in part in the implementation of international contracts and shall also carry out joint operations for the entire professional service, for the whole office. The regional services shall carry out a first-degree procedure for the exercise of pension insurance rights, the parent records of the insurance undertaking. It means starting, stopping and changing data during insurance and, of course, other jobs that are set out in the statute. On 31.12.2005, 3 thousand 287 employees were employed at the Institute’s professional service. Unfortunately, data on the structure of staff of the Institute's professional service towards life confirm that it is an institution, I note several times already that the Institute belongs to the category of old services and it is one of the essential areas, of the five important areas in which the Institute in the project, or where the Institute is already in the process of redesigning the modernisation to make such a situation change and become a modern and efficient institution, and in this sense. Regarding the portfolio situation in the part has not changed about the portfolio managed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. I reiterate that this part of the portfolio is managed under the 2000 Privatisation Act and under the Law is a contract for the management of shares and business shares in July 2000 and that part of the portfolio continues to be managed by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Part of the portfolio that was entered into the capital fund, it was the closed investment fund owned by the Institute by the Croatian Pension Investment Company and, HMID, meaning the company that manages the net profit in 2005 of 14 million, slightly more than 14 million kuna, and the capital fund earned a profit of 79, slightly more than 79 million. An unrealised profit, an unrealised profit of 323 million or more. Almost 323 and 600. I must point out that the market value of these shares at the time of the establishment of the capital fund was 384 million. However, the value of the capital fund's assets on December 31st is slightly more than a billion and 328 million, and for example, here today is over a billion and 900. To note something special about this report I do not have, but repeat that we at the Institute will really, as we have so far, focus all our strengths on solving our tasks on as many legal and professional ways as possible, taking care of and on the rational management of funds in accordance with the purpose for which the Institute is established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74052	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, President, Honored Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74053	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Director of the Office of Associates. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 59th session of the Committee held on 29 September 2006 discussed the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005. The Committee discussed the report as a home working body in accordance with the powers of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Members of the Committee had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, the Committee's members pointed out that this report was better designed and systemised in substance than the previous reports. In addition, the very work of the Institute is best described by the unconditional findings of the State Audit for the audit carried out in 2005 as members of the Committee. Speaking of the difficult situation in the system of generation solidarity, it has been pointed out that the ratio of the number of pensioners and the number of insurance companies is 1:1.39. This remains an extremely unfavourable ratio. However, after years of continuous deterioration in the last few years, this ratio has been slightly improving. During the debate, the efforts of the Institute for the Promotion of Information and Communication Technology, and in particular the electronic business programme, have been praised, thus achieving the opening of the public office and the establishment of the public service of citizens. After the discussion, the members of the Committee voted mostly, with one vote against, decided to propose a report to the Croatian Assembly for adoption, the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005 was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74054	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the club of representatives of the CNS, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74055	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will take this report into account and because we believe it is not complete, not because of what it says, but because of what or what is not in it. Unlike last year, this annual report left out two very important things for us, and I will try to illustrate and prove it by actually using data and findings from the report itself. In the 1970s, the report said that the Croatian pension was 65% of the average salary, that the contributions were between 14% and 15% at that time, and that the ratio of insurance and pensioners to those who paid and used pensions was 3:1. Last year, the average pension was 42% of the average salary. Contributions to pension insurance are 20%, and the ratio of those who pay and those who use pensions is 1.3:1. It is further noted that pension insurance has amortised some of the social problems in Croatia and therefore we have a significant number, according to the report, of young pensioners. However, it is not found, it is not stated when, during what period, the pension system has taken over part of social care and, therefore, the age structure of pensioners in Croatia today is what it is. So the findings were left out that the process lasted later, between '95. and '99. the year when the largest number of redundancies in companies that have been privatised and sold or donated ended up in the pension system. Furthermore, the report also mentions that in the 1990s there were 5 thousand 500 people with disabilities in the pension system, and in '98. 39 grand. So in 8 years, the number of people with disabilities in the pension system has increased by 7 times. The report also found that the average family pension of the deceased Croatian defender is 3 and a half times higher than the average family pension achieved under the general pension rules. Last year, there were millions and 80,000 users and a million 498 thousand insurance companies. These are the data that speak or lead to information that the relationship between the user and the insurance company is 1,3:1. The incomes achieved in the pension system, last year 27.3 billion kuna, of which 15 billion and 700 contributed, and the budget allocated 11 and 400. When you look at these 11 and 400 from the budget, you will see that only 50% of these 11 billion for old or early retirement pensions, only 50%, and that the other part of that money refers to pensions as in this report is called acquired under more favourable conditions. Therefore, the funding from the state budget given to the pension system is only 50% for old or early retirement pensions. The child allowance is used by 236 families for 445 thousand children, and the average amount of child allowances was 271 kuna per child in the last year. 67,000 pensioners from the Croatian pension system live and receive a pension outside the Republic of Croatia. And that number is growing year after year. In the last year, 47 thousand people went into retirement, of which 23 thousand 900 were aged and premature, 7 thousand 400 in disability and 15 and a half thousand in the family. The report said it was 16.14% higher than the year before. So the number of people who retire last year is as much as 16% more than a year before that. The report also provides data on 12 categories of pension beneficiaries that have been achieved under more favourable conditions, whose total number is 174 thousand. When we recently discussed in the Assembly the way in which pensioners of the Republic and inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia from the former republics of the former state were concerned, then the only argument was that they could not be taken over into the pension system of the Republic of Croatia because the basic principle of pension insurance was that the pension was made where the contributions were paid. It would be interesting to receive for these 12 users, 12 categories of pensioners, and a review of where, in which pension system, they all or they individually paid a pension contribution and on which they were entitled to pension. In order to compare or obtain the value of this report, I had to use the data partially from 2006 so if I had accurate information in April of this year in retirement there were 567 thousand pensioners whose average pension is 2,059,00 kuna. The disability pensions are 234 thousand and the average pension is 1.656.00 kuna. Family 231 thousand, the average is 1.613.00 and when you give it an average of the total pension, it is 1,868.00 kuna. How many people retired last year as an elderly or premature adult? How many pensioners made that pension last year? I didn't find that information as well as the amount of the average pension of the people who retired last year. According to my calculations, there would be about 24 thousand people who had retired, and the data that I came up with would be as follows regarding the pension reform that has been in place since 1 January 99. From January 1st 99th to the end of last year 352,000 pensioners went into retirement. 352 thousand people. I remind you that the average amount of retirement is old and prematurely 2,040,00 kuna, 2,039,00. In these 352 thousand people who retired from 99 to today, there are 176 thousand aged and premature ages and they make an average pension of 1.695.00 kuna. So 340,00 kuna is less than the average pension in that category. But those who retired last year, aged and early, so not disabled or family, made an average pension of $1.220,00 kuna. 1.220,00 kuna, and the average pension of that status is 2.040,00. So it's about an average pension below 800,00 kuna. What is the average, old or early retirement going to be this year? Are there any projections? Or in 2009 which is the last year of the transitional period, 980,00 kuna. The citizens of Croatia who will retire in 2009 will receive an average pension of 980,00 kuna. This is a simulation of the movement of the average pension on the basis of the pension reform. In addition to finding that pension reform has stabilised the pension system, there is no word further. Furthermore, what bothers us in the report is the part relating to the work of the Governing Council. It is concluded that the administrative board discussed the report by the occupier for 2004 and that the board supported the measures taken by the Institute to reduce the number of complaints from citizens on the work of professional services. What are these measures the Bureau is taking? What are the effects of these measures? Who's doing it? The Governing Council appointed by the Assembly does not report on this, but only finds that these measures are supported. Don't we deserve as a Parliament to get a review of these measures, get an impact review of how much reduction of the objection to a first or second-degree solution is? Furthermore, it is concluded that new rules have also been established in the work of the Governing Council, so imagine, please, the absent members of the board of directors can vote by telephone, fax or e-mail. What is the monthly compensation of members of the Board of Directors? More than 3,000 kunas and for that money, members of the board vote on the phone. I can't come to the session, and only the portfolio that's in the Peace Fund is nearly 5 billion kuna, but they vote by phone, fax or e-mail. The report also says that they have considered and supported the measures taken by the Bureau. Then there's someone too big. If they support, if they vote on the phone and others, if they haven't done that task the Parliament gave them, considering last year's report, to make an inventory of real estate. I remind you that after discussing the report from the Bureau on our request and the board of directors gave their report. That this report on the work of the board of directors found that almost nothing was done in the area of the inventory of property of a real estate institution. What is the value of the property in the properties of the institutions they currently have in Croatia? How much of this property is included in the property of the Pension Insurance Office? Who are the users of this property? Does the Bureau charge for the rent and what is the revenue from that title? Not a word, because this was on the agenda, except for the finding that some shifts have been made with the Department of Health Insurance since the establishment of the property where they are obviously located in the common rooms. I personally know a number of property entities that are registered in grants as properties owned by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. How much in Croatia I don't know, and I think it would be extremely good to finally get that part of the report from the board if they are considered competent for that part of the job. And I'll finish the next one. Unlike earlier years, part of the portfolio-related report, as well as the one managed by the Institute directly and the one given to it on the management of the capital fund is one page each. 3 billion 600 in the portfolio of institutions, billions and 300 in the capital fund. We heard today that these billions and 300 have now risen to a billion and 900. And in all of that, five billion portfolios are total two-and-a-half pages, if we don't count graphs. Or is it in those five billion and Pliva? Or not? Look closely at the report. The Management Board has given its consent to the Director or gives consent to the Director to have a portfolio and transfer. I thought it was in the jurisdiction of the board. Obviously, the Administrative Council does not manage the Office and obviously in the powers of the Office, the Directorate or Director of the Governing Board shall have a higher authority. And for this reason, this year I express my dissatisfaction with the report relating to the Administrative Council, and I believe that the report of the Governing Council must not be an integral part of the Institute's report in the future, but rather that the Governing Council must submit a special report because the composition of the members of the Governing Council is elected by the Assembly rather than by the Board of Directors. So that's why we won't vote for acceptance, but we'll take it to the knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74056	Thank you. For the HSU club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74057	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, Mr. Director and Associates. In the debate on the 2005 report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the relevant factors affecting or affecting the situation in the pension system should be considered. According to the report, the pension scheme is implemented as compulsory pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity and through compulsory and voluntary pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. This pension insurance system began in 1999. As a consequence, pension rights have been reduced since then, the conditions for retirement have been radically deteriorated, and the way in which the pension base is established is so that the allocation of contributions during work is less and less affecting the level of pension. The newly installed pension system is increasingly like a welfare system, and less and less on a serious pension system in which each individual's contribution is valued throughout his working life. All of this has been done with a excessive fiscal objective of reducing pension expenditure at all costs. Such an approach in the beginning seriously violated the intergenerational solidarity system. When we add to this a whole series of other adverse events and inappropriate social and economic problems through the pension system, then we find out that the pensioners have submitted, and today they bear the largest part of the transition costs. So let's start with a poorly designed and even worse-implemented privatisation model that was supposed to start Croatia's economic resources and increase employment, and it happened disastrously vice versa, four hundred thousand jobs went missing. Which caused the pension fund's income to be reduced. On the other hand, part of the economic, social difficulties were resolved through the pension system, we received a large number of young pensioners who burden pension funds in the long term, the pension system amortised a large part of social problems and unemployment. There has been a huge increase in disability insurance costs due to economic difficulties, and as a consequence of the destruction of the war, there has been an increase in disability pensions. The intergenerational solidarity system has been seriously damaged. In determining pensions, less and less the contribution of pensioners is present, there is unwarranted inequalities in the amount of individual pensions for the same working period and the same financial contribution. Pensions are actually falling behind and seriously jeopardising the existence of a quarter of Croatia's citizens. The low incomes of most employees do not guarantee that pensions from the second pillar of compulsory pension insurance will seriously improve the situation of future pensioners, and voluntary pension insurance as a third pillar most employees today can only dream. Therefore, whether we wish it or not, the system of intergenerational solidarity remains the foundation of the system and without generational solidarity there is no pension system. Because just like every single person should take care of their parents, so one generation in one society should take care of another. The system of intergenerational solidarity should first and foremost be cleansed of what does not belong there. In particular, the question of social care is what needs to be taken care of by the state, not the pension system. The system must be based on the contributions of the generation that works for generations that at that time use the right base of earlier work. This basic form of pension insurance is not abandoned anywhere in Europe, so there is no reason for it to be in Croatia where it has been successfully functioning since 1922. In order to justify the failures of the pension reform and the consequences of privatisation today, the arguments which wish to show that the pension system is unsustainable, and these arguments are precisely the result of solving problems that do not fall within the pension system. The important question is the relationship between insurance and pensioners. Today we have a million and 498 thousand and 877 insurance and a million 80,000 and 571 pensioners, which means that this relationship is one to 1.39, and when we compare it, it's certainly unfavourable. However, questions need to be asked why so? Did we do everything we could to increase our employment? Last year, it was known to hear and say that we have about 400,000 black employees, so in the gray economy, and so far, we haven't changed anything. If we had hired these people in the regular economy, this relationship would not be one to 1.39, but it would have been about one to 1.80, and it would certainly be a whole other relationship, as well as their contributions that would not now be in revenue. So do we now have the right to continue to say that the pension system is unfavourable and all that we haven't done is put back on the pensioners? The share of pension expenditure in the gross domestic product is also a significant issue. This year, it is 11.92% and the report next year is expected to continue to reduce the participation of pensions in the gross domestic product as a beneficial result of changes made in the pension system, and what does that mean? This basically means further unfavourable conditions for the achievement of pension rights and ways of harmonising pensions. So, in fact, we consciously participate further deterioration of the pensioner's position in Croatia. Is that necessary? Of course not. And let's remind ourselves again of the 400 grand they're doing in the gray economy. An increase in the gross social product for income from the grey economy would also mean an increase in participation in GDP between 9% and 11%, such as elsewhere in Europe. Furthermore, the question of contributions and taxes for alimony of pension expenditure. It is persistent to conclude that the state budget aliminates a large part of pension expenditure because the contribution funds are not allegedly sufficient. This is simply not true because the total expenditure of pension insurance is settled as stated in the report in full from the original income and 64.58% from the contributions and 35.07 from the budget as said in the report, and the revenue from the budget relates to the funds for the rights under specific regulations and expenditure on covering those related to the expenditure under specific regulations. Therefore, this is the part relating to the coverage of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individualised capital savings, and therefore, the state budget does not actually help pension insurance but only implements its established obligation law. Often when it comes to raising the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, it tends to always reach for a solution to reduce contributions and taxes. However, if we look at the data on the participation of contributions and taxes that we have in the gross social product in the European Union and Croatia according to which the participation of taxes and contributions in the gross social product in the European Union is about 39.7% last year, and in Croatia it is 40.3%, which means that there are many more countries where this relationship is far greater than in Croatia. Well, it's not like there's a questionable increase in competitiveness to build on the damage to the retirement population, and there are some other elements that can be achieved. A significant question in the share of pensions in wages. The report says that average retirement pensions in the average salary made by a pensioner in 40 years are 62.37%, which is of all 18 observed European countries the lowest participation. So all the countries in Europe that are being observed have more participation than Croatia has. Do these data require further comment? Certainly not, but there may be something else to say, which is that the full analysis of the results of the '99 pension reform should be carried out urgently. For years, to look at all the prices, its negative features that are growing every day and to establish a consistent pension system that will allow normal life for both present and future pensioners. We would like to stress that in this Report it is well elaborated in a brief one specific way of problems in the pension system and that the data are transparent and the Croatian party of pensioners will support this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74058	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74059	Your Honor, Mr. President! My colleagues and colleagues! Well, I'd like to go from this last sentence to my colleague Pucklesha, and say that just because the data isn't a transparent SDP club, it can't support this report. What do we mean by that? Without entering a full and comprehensive analysis of what the report is talking about, and what the report is not talking about, and should be spoken of, let me just accept or accent a few important issues that should be the content of our debate if they are not the contents of this report and when it comes to the pension system and the pension insurance system at all. Well, first of all, let me say what might have seemed bombistic. Mr. Rukavina, I would like to ask the answer to the question that will greatly then determine how we will treat this report, to answer the following question. Namely, in the 2005 report we received. REGOS writes to be precise in the figure that, based on the payment of contributions for the second pension column, 3 billion 110 million 286 thousand 886, 52 kuna was passed. And the report that you are submitting to this House states that 2 billion 623 million 761,638 were paid for compulsory insurance on the basis of the universal capitalised savings from the 2005 budget. It's a very simple question. I hope that's the answer. Where's 500 million kuna? Half a billion kunas are missing, and if that's what the answer is, so here you see, the country is intertwined and pension contributions, so the state gives more than it should, so pensions are alimony, etc. That won't be an acceptable answer. This will not be an acceptable answer because, as my predecessor said a little while ago, a precise analysis of pension expenditure shows that the contributions were low however they were, looking at European relations that were actually sufficient in one transparent pension payment system. All that pensions under special regulations are actually obligations to the state and the state budget to pay off. It's an obligation of the state. I ask this question so much more that we have had opportunities these days, I guess it will be in the 2006 report, we have had the opportunity to see how the real estate of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is not state property and is not state property in this narrow sense, hence the state budget. This property is property of sui generis. She's got her own owner, she's got her own owner, and she belongs to the pensioners and the insurance company. This is also how the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is managed. And it is not possible to sell part of that property without the income from that sale being an integral part of the one to whom this property belongs, the property of the one to whom it belongs. It can't be done by the state. And it is important to say that no matter how much it tried to blur the matter, so let's say, here, in the term of last government, the Croatian Privatisation Fund gave the portfolio so much and so much. As much as this is trying to cloud the truth is that the Croatian Privatisation Fund only had an obligation not to, the obligation to do so because of professional etc. For reasons in a good way, he manages that portfolio. And that's why the Croatian Pension Insurance Office paid him compensation for the job. It is not the property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. That's why these 500 million kunas that apriori is supposed to be considered normal between HZMOs may be paid. I expect perhaps such an answer by the end of the year, so what I know is that the pensioners are going to ask for the Santa Claus to be paid. Will the position of new pensioners be improved? But these 500 million from the state budget must come to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute because this was probably a 2 billion 600 million plan and the charge was better or greater than expected by REGOS in its report. When we talk about transparency and some assessments that are given or not given, or the implications are actually present in this report, then it seems to me to be a serious lack of one such report because this is an opportunity to talk about the pension system, in fact, the lack of what the Croatian public actually screams about, the problem that is really becoming one of the most difficult issues when it comes to at least the finances of this country. And it's about the pensioner status of the so-called pensioner. old and so on. New pensioners. That question is in no way indecisible. There is a great concept, a model and there is a possibility in Croatia, and financial opportunities for this problem to be solved in a quality and good way, without even touching the consistency of the system because I personally believe that the objectives set by '99 are. For years, so I'm talking about one of the HDZ governments so that someone doesn't say that I speak pro-domo sua or that God doesn't give me something to politicise on this issue, these questions are, therefore, the objectives have been realised and have achieved the effects and effects that were expected. Let's just remind ourselves, we're talking about a system of intergenerational solidarity, so we're not talking about a pension reform that passed in 2001 as a three-part system, that the age limits for age and temporary retirement have been gradually increased by five years, that a larger and permanent reduction in early retirement pension has been introduced, that the definition of disability has been adapted to the market economy. Those were all questions that were being asked. In order to gradually expand the accounting period from which pensions are taken to determine pensions by three years each year and replace those ten most favourable years, the way pensions are adjusted, the rights of the socio-protective nature have been abolished and, in fact, in the welfare care system and the right to protection and supplement with pensions as their own replacement, a minimum pension has been introduced. What's the status? What's the score? It's been seven years since 1.1.1999, and we can say that there really is a stabilized pension insurance based on generation solidarity. We can conclude that the inflow of new pensioners has been reduced and that the number of pensioners is stabilised from one to four to one, and the proportion of pension expenditure in GDP has been reduced, these were the objectives of the '99 reform. A year. And it can be determined to be accomplished greatly. But what does not come true? Or what are the consequences of that system? And not just that system in '99. but also some measures that I'll discuss later, some other measures that followed. In addition to these positive effects, this macro-economic aspect of the low level of pensioners who were retired after '99. years so low that it is socially unacceptable and unsustainable, and other unacceptable proportions compared to pensions achieved by 31 December '98. A year. So also the low pensions of new pensioners and the fact that they're so lower than the pensions of old pensioners. In 2005, these new pensions were on average 30% lower than pensions by '98. the year because the average pension of the beneficiaries who made their pension is up to 098. On 31 December, it was 2 thousand and 1 kuna and 58 June and the average pension of new pensioners from 1 January 1999. A thousand 506 kuna 64. And now, if you throw out, if you eliminate the fact that the structure of the new pensioners is something more unfavourable. When I say structure then I think they're even a little younger than these old pensioners, the second is that there's a larger number of those who took pensions from abroad, etc. When all of this turns out to be pensions, so when you correct the pensions of new pensioners on average, 21% lower than the old ones. We could list the reasons for that. But one thing is quite certain which is not at all talked about, and it is important to keep in mind, not to say that we are commending that we have improved the important position of the pensioners in the term of the last government, not because of this, but because we have not detected these reasons, we will not be able to seek even the right solution to the identified problem. As can be seen from this report under the two laws adopted in the mandate of the last government, and this is about the Retirement Law to remove differences in the level of pensions achieved in different periods in the last year, more money was paid or secured by 2 billion and 313 million kuna. If this adds up to 100 kuna and 6% worth of a billion 486 million, it is evident that the two laws passed by the Retirement Government but only for old pensioners were increased in total by 3 billion and 800 million kuna. This is simply for political reasons not to be lost out of sight, not because it is recognised and when compared to 2 billion and 400 million this year, it is clear that the difference between old and new pensioners is the consequence of the two laws that we have passed in the new term. The exact calculation says 19% difference and I said 21 lies in it. In other words, it just means that the old pensioners would have been on this beggar pension if it hadn't been for these two laws that were passed in the term of the last government. Lights and I'll say this. 12.7% are the average pension expenditure of the European Union. In Croatia they fell below 12%, 11.92 or 96%. Specifically, Croatian citizens should be told: (a) the financial space that this word problem has, the financial opportunities to solve this problem has, the share of pensions is constantly falling from the gross social product in Croatia, (b) there are models that this discrepancies and disproportion is resolved without jeopardising any positive aspect of what has started since the pension reform in '99. don't put it in danger. There is no need to go back to the old, no need for any pausal and paliative solutions to look for, systematic solutions exist. We'll get a chance to talk about them and I hope so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74060	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74061	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague Vidovic said that we had recently witnessed how... property of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's just not true. Not at any time did he... And we're sorry that you can't accept the fact that this government is going to pay the pensioners back, and obviously you can't live with that, but these are facts. [[I don't understand the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74062	For the HDZ Club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74063	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed director with his associates! I would also like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005 which systematically processes the state of the pension insurance system of intergenerational solidarity, but also the organisation and management of the institution, management of the office, financial operations, the exercise of the rights and the work of the professional service of the Institute. It is a quality made up and methodologically absolutely acceptable. The report in question was also shown by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which supported it without notice, and in what sense should be emphasized on this occasion that in June 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the study, so the study "The Foundation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute" which launched a comprehensive work on: the 1st redesign and modernisation of the Institute and the 2nd modification of the way, the way in which the Office works and the existing structure with the purpose of transforming the Institute into a modern public institution for the implementation of pension insurance. Of course, and to reduce the duration of the procedures for the exercise of pension insurance rights and, of course, the reduction of the costs of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute’s business. The report itself shows that pension insurance movements are affected by the rules governing the pension system and, of course, by economic and demographic movements. It is particularly important to stress that, since 1 January 1999, stricter conditions have been introduced for the achievement of a disability pension, a gradual increase in age limits for retirement and temporary retirement and a gradual expansion of the accounting period, which has slowed the unfavourable movements in the pension system. It should also be pointed out that the rate of pensioners' growth has slowed. The number of pensioners was stabilised and the number of pensioners and the number of insurance workers in recent years was slightly improved and was 1:1.39 in 2005. However, this remains an extremely unfavourable ratio, but without pension reform, the ratio would be even more unfavourable. I would also like to point out that the work, in the work of the Institute in 2005, was undoubtedly carried out by two projects which are primarily based on legislation and the first of them is extremely important, and it is about the application of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which also regulate the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the right to pension insurance in a new, better and more appropriate way. Another regulation is the application of the law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision from 12 May 1998. This is also an absolute point to point out and indicate that this regulation alone included 677 thousand 411 pensioners, and only the right to compensation was established in 426 thousand and 309 cases involving, therefore, directly the users themselves, which should be noted that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office was therefore competent in the administrative procedure to resolve all outstanding complaints when it comes to the exercise of these rights. Furthermore, democratic movements were one of the reasons why pension insurance reform was implemented and pension insurance financing was introduced from capitalised savings. In the long term, which should have a favourable impact on the level of pensions and on the reduction of pension expenditure financed from the current contribution payment. So with regard to the principle of intergenerational solidarity, the state of the pension system of intergenerational solidarity shows that in 2005, there were a million 498 thousand and 877 insurance and a million and 80,000 571 users of pension. So already mentioned ratio 1:1.39. The average pension for the month of December 2005 was 1848.12 kuna or 41.32% of the average net salary, and the average pension achieved in full working life in the European Union is considered a pension level parameter of 62.37% of the average net salary, which, in that sense, ranks the Republic of Croatia side by side of its Member States. The total income of pension insurance in 2005 amounted to €27.2 billion, while the total expenditure was almost the same in percentage terms as 97.8% of expenditure was therefore paid to the users themselves. In 2005, pension insurance expenditure grew slower than gross domestic product growth and the share of expenditure on gross domestic product amounted to 11.9%, indicating financial stabilisation of the pension system. In addition to pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity, the Institute exercises the right to an allowance for children. In December 2005, there were 236 thousand 986 families of users of the surcharge for a total of 445 thousand 984 children. The average amount of allowances for children was 271,37 kuna per child and in 2005 1.4 billion kuna was allocated to this provision for the social security of the family from the State budget. In the implementation of the Children's Compensation Act in 2005, a total of 299 thousand 208 requests were resolved, of which 296 041 was requested or 98.98% and 3 thousand 167 requests remained unresolved or 1.06%. As far as business is concerned, it should be pointed out that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute has achieved an enviable update in the settlement of the case. In addition, they also show data as part of the implementation of pension insurance in 2005. In the Institute there were 591 thousand 789 different requirements for pension insurance rights and allowances for children of whom 511 thousand were resolved 472 requests or 86.4%, noting that the number of applications was increased by 5% within 2 months compared to the previous year. A particular shift in the resolution of the application was made in the implementation of international social insurance contracts and 17% of the claims were resolved more than in the previous year. In the area of implementing international social insurance contracts during 2005 draft social insurance contracts and administrative agreements were drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, proposals and opinions were made on draft contracts adopted by other countries. In order to improve the pension system, special attention shall be paid, as shown in the report itself, to the reconstruction and modernisation projects of the Institute. Management of human resources, the public work of the Institute, the development of the information system, the management of assets, cooperation with other state administration bodies, institutions and other institutions. The report also covers the work of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which, in accordance with the delirquent and powers established by law and statute, adopted among other things a programme of work of the Institute for 2005 with established strategic objectives. It pointed out that the business of the Institute for 2005 took place in accordance with the 2005 financial plan towards which the total income of the Institute, so without the Croatian defenders' pensions, was achieved in the amount of 4.3 billion kuna or 99.62% of planned revenues, and the total expenditure in 2005, again without Croatian defenders' pensions, were achieved at an amount of €24.3 billion. The staff expenditure of the Institute in 2005 amounted to 372 million 421 thousand 303 kuna, or 85.54% of planned expenditure for 2005. In line with everything exposed, the Croatian Democratic Community's representative absolutely supports this report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, of course for 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74064	Thank you. For the club HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74065	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. For the Croatian party club, this report points to three important facts. It points to the harsh reality of the situation of Croatian pensioners today. So the first fact is that over 600,000 Croatian pensioners live below the most minimal existential standard today. It's the best thing that charms you, and this final interrogation. It was the International Day of Combating Poverty yesterday, so we heard the data about what the social picture in Croatia is from, so that's what the research was doing, the United Nations Agency was doing, meaning a representative survey that suggests that 40% of the population in Croatia lives below the minimum of all minimums. That means he can't afford the means to live a normal life. The facts are that every 10th household, and there's too much weight on the pensioners, the retirement population, the unemployed, every 10th household doesn't have the money to secure the heating. And every 15th household during the week on its menu has no meat at all. Here's the raw stuff. And this is exactly what the report literally draws out. And also from this report, meaning another important fact for us at the Croatian Party club is that this report shows that the pension system in Croatia is currently a giant on glass feet. Why is he a giant? Because it's 27 billion kuna a year that he pays off. And why is it on glass feet? We heard in the opening statement. And God forbid you fail a tourist season in Croatia that system will fall on its feet. So the pension system will fall to its feet if it fails one tourist season. Because the fact that the budget is available every year means, according to last year, 42.4% of the income, which is $11.4 billion, that this happens, the Croatian pension system is on its knees and will have no place to pay for pensions. And the third essential fact that this report indicates that future pensioners have no future. As the situation states that future pensioners, means that they should go into retirement essentially have no future, since it is evident that the average pension is constantly falling, and will only fall to this system of coordination with so-called. Swiss system. It is now apparent that somewhere below 42% of the average pension ratio is now below average salary. And then there's, and then there's things that we have to think about today and decide how and in what way to establish a pension system to function as why it exists. Three reasons why the pension system is in this situation are already visible from the debate. The first is the most painful reason, and this is how and how the conversion and privatisation was carried out in Croatia. We know that the State Audit Office report, which had a direct impact on this situation in the pension fund, because of the fact that something less than 400,000 workers were out of work, and that's visible in the report itself, because it's '90s. There were 655 thousand 788 pensioners, the ratio of the number of insurance guards to the struggle of the pensioners was 3:1. And we see now what the situation is, so at this point we have over a million, or a million and 107 thousand 795 pensioners according to the state of the latest. But it's devastating in all this is that 556 thousand 773 pensioners receive a pension of up to 500 kuna. 140 thousand 436 pensioners receive a pension of 500 to 1,000 kuna and 463 thousand 544 pensioners receive a pension of between 1,000 and 2 thousand kuna. So there is a clear situation and there is no other way than to deal with those who stole the state in conversion and privatisation, to take away everything that has been illegally acquired and thus enable the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to act better. Another important problem that needs to be addressed urgently, and it concerns the fact that we are increasing the number of disability pensions according to the latest report, so there is something about 234 thousand 829 users are disabled pensions and if we add another 110 thousand pensioners on the basis of a special or benefited internship, it says of another situation that we did not ensure in the state that employers have to ensure full protection at work. Because it's logical that the number of retirement disability pensions will be less if the work protection system works. It follows that the work protection system does not work, we have these regulations, no one implements them, and this variant happens that because workers are not provided with measures to protect their work in the way that Croatian regulations and regulations have been laid down and that we have taken over as legal gains of the European Union, the situation will be even worse. The further problem with this part of how to fix the situation in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office refers to one important fact that no one mentioned it today, and that is that employers report workers to minimum wage. Employers report workers on minimum wage and every year income from contributions is getting smaller and smaller. Why do we allow employers in the Croatian Parliament? They apply for minimum wage and are normally automatically lower incomes, i.e. contributions to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. So we have solutions. We raise the minimum wage, it will happen automatically that there will also be higher incomes to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and now we come to the fact that somewhere according to official estimates from 11 to 15 billion kuna, the state is losing annually due to the grey economy, and this is one of the forms of the grey economy that employers report to workers on minimum wage, and these workers themselves who are going to retire tomorrow and will normally have an even smaller pension than they are, will not mean 1,868.00 kuna as long as the average pension is now but will be even smaller. Now that's the thing that we here have to do in the Croatian Parliament. So from conversion and privatisation, from insurance protection to work so that they have as little disability pensions as possible to this part where employers cheat both workers and the state, and profit is taken because workers have reported on minimum wage, and if they are registered on minimum wage means these contributions are lower. And if we don't, this situation will happen that the contributions will be less and less from year to year and that the rest will have to be secured in the state budget. Now if we have a situation of what is the responsibility of the state on the one hand, what is the relationship of rebalancing in terms of trade in goods and if we have in mind everything that is going on in Croatia and if we don't solve these issues, the situation will be worse and worse. New pensioners don't have a future. They don't have a future. And if we don't finally make a strategy for Croatia's economic development, there's no future. Because I say in the end, if the fact that one tourist season fails, the pension system is on its knees, that giant is on its knees, which is now on glass feet, and it's going to be about paying off pensions, and there's nothing to sell anymore. There's nothing to sell anymore, that's the problem. We therefore need to take this report into account, we accept it in view of the situation and points to how and how we in the Croatian Parliament must act so that the current pensioners can also live to have an insurance of mere survival and that future pensioners have a future. Because that variant is going to happen, you saw it in the report, and I'm really surprised that, let's say, the average pension in Hungary is 102% higher than the salary. It's really one, I don't know if it's true, but it means it's only going to be a solution for people to move to Hungary if they want to make a pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74066	Thank you. In 10.57, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74067	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of the fellow MPs I quote said, future pensioners do not have a future. That's not true, of course. It is said of the current employees, they certainly have a future, but the question is what kind of future there is and that should be talked about more. So there's going to be more hungry and more people who won't be able to pay the directors. The average pension is constantly falling from the value of the salary, and the question is, how with an average pension of 1.200,00 kuna, for example, will be able to pay both directors and all. They have a future, but the question is what kind of future. It's not a good future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74068	For the club IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74069	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, distinguished gentlemen of the MPs. The first thing I'm saying is that the material is great, extremely much data, but it looks like the opportunities in the office are devastating. But come on, all of this people will survive. He survived worse. But I dare say, never the pension opportunities have been worse than since 1999. Why? First of all, because of this 98 pension reform that created a new retirement poverty, which is what we call new pensioners. Dear gentlemen, I repeat. The pensioner has never been in a worse position than since 99th, and it absolutely doesn't matter whether it's 99, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 or 2006. That period is tragic. Someone will tell me so in 92, let's say the average pension was 100 DEM, equivalent to 50 euros, today it's 250 euros. So how is it worse today than then? How can it be worse today when 12% of gross social product is singled out for pensions today, and 8% of gross social product was released for pensions in 92. The point is the next one. So in the '90s, the average pension rate on average was 75.29%. Wartime, most difficult war in '92. 63.19% of pensions in salaries. '93. It falls to 61.73% but then follows the first major Valentiæ reform, that is the reference point that the Constitutional Court is reading, and that is where the death of the pensioner's population begins. In fact, it can be said that with the families of the victims, expelled, the greatest sacrifice of the 1990s is to be endured by the pensioners. And the team is more in pain about what's being said these days about secret accounts, conversions, etc. The second strike takes place in '98. year, and above all because of this feedback effect of Mateša's reform that connects with the new pensioners, I argue that the situation today of this retirement population is incomparably worse than that of the population "damaged" by Mr Valentic. Share in the average salary of the average pension. I go at age, by age. '99. 38.37%, among other things, is no wonder why government changed afterwards. Two thousand means a share in the average salary of the average pension falls to the historic lowest 37.62%. Two thousand first pensions are already 41.40% of the average salary. In 2002, it drops to 40.73% of the average salary. In 2003, it's an election year, the average pension from the average salary is only 40%. In 2004, it grows to 42.13%. It's down to 41.80% in 2005. That's your reference data. Now, the second thing is whether maybe 37.62% of the average salary from 2000 could buy more goods than 2005. I was also surprised that the pension rates on average in 2005 or 2004, for example, were one, one and a half percentage points higher than in 2002 or 2003. In my court, however, the greatest sin of all governments, the governments so far sees the fact that it was allowed, however, that the pensioner at the age of 40 in 2006 or 2005, does not matter, is neither for a fair meal. It simply must not be so that a man who works for 40 years eventually becomes a social case. True, in the gross social product, the highest retirement rate was then, let's let go of the war, when after the Homeland War it was the hardest. That was '99. in the year, even 13.45%, although that year must not be referenced due to NATO impact on SR Yugoslavia, so the growth of gross social product that year was clearly negative, and in 2001 alone, 13.87% of gross social product was singled out. Today it stands out for 11.92% of GDP's pensions, today clearly economic opportunities are incomparably better than in 2001 and today there is room for equalising old and new pensioners. Returning debt, i.e. This compensation was never an issue. You sell Pliva, HT, I don't know INA, and you put the debt back in the blink of an eye. I'm reading today in the evening that I'm sure Croatia's electricity will come in turn. The IDS has proposed that debt returns be made out of the growth of the budget in a way that returns 1/10 from the growth of the budget, and we were able to return the debt entirely to the old pensioners without effort in seven or eight years, it went to the sale of assets, OK. We all raised our hands for it here, and I was and then I claimed that the pensioners were actually paying themselves back, and I'm glad that in some way they're admitting it today. All right, everybody, let's take a look at it sooner or later. Is it possible to equate old and new pensioners? I don't think it's a dilemma. It just needs to be done. How? Now, that's a little harder. It's supposed to ensure that two to two and a half billion kunas. Where to find the money? Of course, where it's left, in the budget. I say there's room for that. If the 2005 budget grew by six, seven billion kuna compared to 2006 and today in 2007 will grow by an additional seven, eight billion kuna without privatisation, those two billion, two and a half billion kuna from that amount should be allocated for that category of citizens. In my opinion, that would be the only fair thing. Clearly, that money should be created, and now it's far harder. Today is the ratio, which the gentlemen spoke of by employees and pensioners 1.39 to 1. 1.39 works, 1 receives a pension, but out of this million four hundred and forty-eight thousand eighty-seven insurance companies versus one million eighty-five hundred and fifty-one pensioners, there is now going to be forty thousand people working in insolvency companies, working, not receiving salaries, refusing and two hundred thousand of us working in public services, from the Government to the Parliament, health care, education, and Croatia's radio-television, because there we direct those six million kunas, through the bankrupt Vesnik I read today 50 people look home, so it turns out that a million two hundred and fifty thousand employees endure one million and fifty-seven thousand pensioners, two hundred thousand people in the upgrades plus in the winter will be three hundred thousand unemployed and clearly there becomes a problem. You have 1.1 working, 1 pensioner. Now, like it or not, the solution is simple. Go back to the '90s security number. A year. Clearly, it's easy to say, but it's harder to do. The only county that has more employees in 2006 than in '90. The County is Istrian. The only county that has fewer unemployed in 2006 than the '90s. The County is Istrian and has an economic exchange 3 times larger than it was in 1990, and in recent years the gross social product according to that county has increased over 10%. Clearly, no one will admit it to Istria or just say you didn't have a war, etc. But let's let it go now. No matter what is done today, it's absolute and it's uncompromisingly harder to live down there. We all live together in a far more insolent society, year after year, it's harder, sometimes it could get an apartment, I don't know from who, state, business, it's definitely for us. Today you can't get here we see from this and a deserved pension that you won't be when you retire after 40 years of interning a social case. But injustice should be corrected. As the Constitutional Court has righted that injustice against 677 thousand 411 pensioners, more precisely as it has been damaged or there will be 426 thousand 309 old pensioners. Understandably, Croatia has a problem that other countries do not have. We have a war, we have disabled wars, defenders, reconstructions, it's said that the conversion actually shut down 600,000 jobs. It is true that privatisation has put out many jobs, but war, occupation of a third of Croatia, exiled population, loss... the markets of that ex-Yugoslavia, etc. He leaves at least 50% of that number without a job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's true, as it is also true that at the time of the war it should not have gone I don't know about privatisation because it should have been known that it would end up being a big hijacker. That's how it was, and today we're wondering whether to go to a conversion review or not. Now the conversion wasn't even the greatest evil. Far greater than that may have been the sale of rescheduled banks with you not being clear about what would have happened to those banks if they had stayed in state hands when they were literally self-serving. Maybe they'd even go bankrupt like it was in the '90s. But the total income of the Peace Fund in 2005 is 27 billion and 300 million kuna. To the contribution of 15 billion kunas, and 11.4 billion kunas are de facto donations from the budget of 2.9 billion kunas refer to defence pensions. I'm glad we said, at least I hope good-bye to the IMF, if for nothing else and then for being able to access pension coordination. My advice to this government would be that in 2006, 2007 it would not end with a smaller percentage of the share in wages than it was in 2004 or 2005, when it was also poor 41.80%, in 2003 it was 40% if I believed this information of yours that I used to use. The truth is someone is going to say that 40 years of internship brings 62.37% of the average net salary, but how much is that to those 4000 400 kuna? That's about 2,000 kuna somewhere. However, some are paid 7, 8 thousand kuna, can count on de facto on 2 thousand 500 kuna today, the next day on 2 thousand, or next year 300 kuna, etc. It's just something that needs to be changed. Can't a man do more every year with less and less pay. Those categories that were particularly affected are craftsmen, they're farmers. It's easy to talk about raising your minimum wage just remember that you have over 37,000 blocked craftsmen. And let's remember that even though I am absolutely in favour of this concept. There must be economic repairs ahead of us. I believe that in 5, 6 years the basic problem in this country as in some parts of Istria is one Buzestin etc. It will be how to reach the workers, not the workplace. They will no longer have to send people into retirement clearly to survive as was the case in '92, '93. Or '95. I mean, since '90. Until '99. The number of pensioners increased annually by 40 to 50 thousand, and in '91. compared to the '90s. 64 grand, and '99. Compared to '98. 62,000. After 2000, it was 10 to 15 thousand, and the number of contributors also increased from 2001 to today, so in 2005, there were 118 thousand 367 insurance companies more than in 2000. In 2003, there were, so the coalition government leaves the country with 63,000 485 insurance companies more than there were in 2000. In 2005, we have 53,000 882 insurance companies more than 2003. Now the question is whether the HDZ government will end up with more insurance than the third-month government in 2007 or whether it will, but should be said that the third-month government means ending its mandate with 63,000 485 jobs, or insurance workers, and I am counting on this to end in four years with some 95 thousand insurance workers more than it did in the end of '93. years of simple logic because economic opportunities for which neither this government nor that government improves year after year. And in any of these cases, pensioners, especially these new ones, must not suffer any bureaucratic exclusion. And to end, we have a series of international contracts, and that should also be respected, with an emphasis on equalising old and new pensioners. If we did, we'd get somewhere on 55% of the average salary, and it costs about 2 and a half to 3 billion kuna, clearly state budget because elsewhere it simply doesn't have it or... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74070	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74071	The esteemed representative said, quotes, "returning debt to pensioners was never a problem." Absolutely incorrect because repaying debt to pensioners is indeed a problem for both financial and social and sociological and each other. However, the problem with you is that you don't want to recognize this particular government's skills, the way she dealt with this problem and actually designed a model that's being realized, and that model is called repaying debt or repaying debt to the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74072	For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74073	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] It would always be best if nothing had to come back or damage because it shows that injustice is relatively easy to do, but they, well, you see... It seems to me, eight years from the Constitutional Court's decision to return to those people who have earned it very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that all of us know the problems of the Croatian pension system, it is said in the public, it is said here in Parliament that there are a large number of pensioners in relation to the number of employees who have been made in part by transition changes, partly due to poor previous regulations, and partly as amortising social problems and unemployment, and it is clear to all of us that this is extremely burdening the pension system. What is very dangerous and truly unfavourable relations between users and insurance companies should, however, increase it and lead to a level of well-developed countries. But the situation is right where it is, and that means that we have large contributions to pension insurance, which again provide only extremely small pensions. It's a very strange disproportion. Some kind of tank is certainly in the unemployed Corps. We can easily calculate how much pension funds would better stand to lower unemployment by 5%, for example. People, I think, and my colleague Cain was talking about this particular sale of family silver and the sale of our banks. I keep saying that, in fact, it would be very easy to bring into direct correlation with this very large sale, most of our banks that this is in line with our unemployment, if foreign banks do not have almost any, or have too much interest in working here and this second part of their obligations, and that is to encourage this very employment process. There is also still a wide-ranging practice of working on black or paying part of wages in cash, which also directly damages pension funds. We are here, when we recently and also talked about banning or banning work on Sundays, and then we realized that there really are millions of watches that aren't paid, and it's really direct not only to damage workers who work hard, but because they're saying they're not, they're not receiving any compensation, but they're damaging the state that... doesn't take those taxes that normally belong to her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Realistically, the greatest possibility of resolving the situation in the pension system is beyond the scope of the operation of the institution itself. This is economic development, unemployment growth, better tax control. Thus, the conditions to ensure this major inflow of funds in the fund are untapped and, in addition, it is necessary to facilitate the possibility of lifelong insurance at the state level in order to make it easier for the fewer people who are trying to get early retirement because they do not feel competitive at work or who, after the possible loss of work in their 50 years of life, remain unemployed until they are entitled to an age pension. We were also here saying that these scientific paradigms are changing much faster than they were in the middle of the 20th century and at the end of the 20th century, and that they are really at this large number of people, when they can no longer follow these very technological, informative changes and there is no reason why they are too young to retire and just that general frustration at work when they, if they are not allowed to just be able to get their educations that they did not know there somewhere 20-30 years ago that they can now complement it with new scientific paradigms. I think that's what we were proposing, too. Unfortunately, this proposal was not found to approve this House, but I think we're going to want to, we're going to have to go back to that very idea to allow for that lifelong education. Furthermore, it is also necessary to work on increasing work security in order to make disabled workers as little as possible and to ensure that jobs that require a well-defined job experience are also as low as possible. It is quite unacceptable to have this category of Benefience in Croatia truly realized until cartoons, and that we are then getting a pretty easy beneficent pension. Furthermore, the Institute's report also warns us of the poor demographic structure of Croatia. It won't be long before we have to think about opening Croatian borders for immigrants with this demographic structure, because there won't be anyone to fill ever more empty and hungry funds. We think the demographic problem is now also an indicator, one of Croatia's leading problems. But what really on page 5 of this report almost seems to us to believe in the section or not, is that out of nearly a million-and-a-half fuses that 800 thousand are younger than 40 years old. There's actually this great potential and it's actually hiding here and it really turned out that something in this past was wrong for us when, on 31 December 2005, we have almost 800 thousand insurance companies that are younger than 40 years old. Normally, it creates a whole series of other problems in society and I find it really very difficult to even imagine what this pensioner who is under 40 might actually be working and then certainly this problem would be much less demographically when we gave up so easily we could say one of the most vital parts of our population, which instead of working is located and receiving a pension. But for this report, the HSLS Club can say it's done precisely and clearly. It should therefore be seen as a warning that the pension situation is not good and that it will be even worse in the long term, unless appropriate corrective measures are taken. As we know, the catastrophic forecasts don't necessarily have to be realized, but it's very important that as soon as we start to remove all these shortcomings that are very precise and that we really need to be aware of and that we simply can't push under the carpet and think that they will solve themselves. This is why the HSLS Club believes that the pension system should be subject to national consensus. The average working life lasts for the 10th election cycles and any major change is very burdening the system. The peace system is not something that can be changed every four years and patched every year, two days. But continuity, long-term thinking, consensus, long-term strategic planning, all of these are concepts that have not yet in any way become something that is acceptable in Croatian political practice and in this area, in our opinion, they are absolutely necessary. HSLS believes that the laws and rules that determine the pension system must be a matter of Croatian political consensus, there must be topics in which we will create a clear position and present it as the position of the entire Parliament and not that I do not know about it we are talking about with the position of the opposition or when we are in opposition. We must think about what to do with pensions and after the process of this debt recovery is completed, or the compensation to pensioners. Let's just say this situation itself that you have to get something back then you always get the impression whether it's enough or you're just asking yourself why we even had to do this debt? And after the financial injection that many pensioners now have spent, it will eventually be spent, it is not eternal. The amounts of a thousand 500, a thousand 600 kuna monthly pensions mentioned in the report are still below the level of a modest life, and I must admit that this information is 63, that the pension is still very low compared to the average wage. One average salary is not God knows how high. It seems that the best thing to do is to go to Hungary, there is an average pension of 102% compared to the average salary. I don't know how the Hungarians did it but I have no reason to doubt the data in this report. Of course, however, the situation will improve somewhat when pensions begin to be paid by people who pay the second and the third pension pillar, and by the time they retire, they will be at least 20-30 years. Now the question is, what should be done in the meantime? First of all, we need to think about those who hit them in the '90s and when their reckoning includes salaries that are extremely low on their wages at the time. These are all the problems that I say to me today and this particular assembly of parliament must give me answers. Certainly the Institute does not have and cannot provide all answers to all questions but it should certainly help us to develop long-term projections of improving the pension system in Croatia. Therefore, we as a club will accept this report but we consider it only as an incentive for a more serious reflection on the future pension system in us. And in the end, I was about two, three years ago in Westin because he was the guest of that famous Chilean who made a revolutionary reform in Chile, a pension reform. A few days in the media were encouraged,... It is about some very important TV shows, but I think that these experiences that are mentioned as that little wonder of the world, because the same thing Chile had similar problems that Croatia was facing, so if the Chileans could solve it, I don't see any reason why it can't be solved either in Croatia, and not that, in fact, when we bring things to the wall, then actually more when there won't be room for this intergenerational solidarity because they simply won't have anyone to alimate anymore, it serves those funds precisely because the processes that are happening are extremely unfavourable, but apparently it shows however that the problem of solving unemployment is, that the problem with which both Parliament and all political parties have to face. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But once again, we will accept the report for his correctness. But I'm saying, that doesn't solve this problem that still remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74074	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74075	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to correct a relatively incorrect assumption. Coli Kramarić said we have great contributions to pension insurance. This kind of relatively, however, may be right, but if you look at the percentages and the figures that they say if you compare them with other transition countries, they say that we do not have a significantly larger or better said majority of transition countries have a higher percentage of the share of pension insurance than we do, but it is different from that structure that is paid for pension insurance. So when we talk about it, big contributions are relatively 20% and we're not at the top of the countries that pay too much. The question is, how much is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74076	For the Club of Representatives of the HSS, a respected representative of Miroslav Cacia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74077	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office! The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005 gives us an overview of the pension system in Croatia, gives us a picture of the misery in which the majority of the pensioners are located and gives us an overview of the work and structure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Any discussion on this subject will be held by the pensioners in hopes of finding a solution that will lead to an increase in pensions. Starting with a report of the observed sizes of a million 498 million, 877 insurance companies compared to a million and 80 thousand 571 pensioners, which is a 1:1.39 ratio, i.e. that a pensioner comes from 1.39 employees who say there is no economic boom in Croatia or a significant increase in new employees, so it will be difficult to realise the understandable hopes of pensioners about a better life. It's been '95 a long time now. For years, to remind only one pensioner came to 3,68 employees. Not that long ago, '90s. Three employees of one pensioner, so today this ratio would be the one I already mentioned. By changing the ratio in number, the pension ratio was also changed compared to the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. In the '90s. The year was 75% of the average salary paid, and in 31.12.2005 it was 41.80 or by some other indicators even 39%. If we keep in mind it's '99. The average pension amounted to 34.51 average salaries paid now to new pensioners and below 30. And there's actually a problem that the HSS points to these days. Since then, pensions so-called pensions have been constantly dropping since 1999. New pensioners, so now their pension is an average of 1,000 and 200 kuna and 21% less than that year of '98. So, for 310 pensioners and 400,000 is at the door of retirement. In 2009 too, unless an injustice is corrected because the end of the pension reform is foreseen, the average pension will be only one thousand and 50 kuna. Taking into account the increase in prices in both the last year and before and the obligation to pay, so also the pensioners, we are always reminded of those participations of the manuals, recipes, we cannot conclude anything other than that the pensioners live harder than they have lived in the past and in the past years even though they were hard to live at that time. A real debt to the pensioners since '93. the year due to non-compliance of pensions with the cost of living and average wage growth and non-compliance with the obligations of the state pension institution in relation to pension payments made under favourable conditions, as determined by the Constitutional Court on 12 May 1998. the year has created a real debt to pensioners of nearly 22 billion. The government of the Republic of Croatia continued to repay the debt but notes that a good part of the debt was returned during the coalition government. However, a significant number of pensioners will never exercise that right. The state has therefore committed itself to repay the debt to the pensioners but according to the amended formula of coordination because now the pensioners would pay themselves de facto debt. In particular, I'm selling Pliva. The first war is paid, and it will for a moment still result in a joy but it soon dies because it needs to live today. We will probably all agree today that it was a completely wrong policy to stimulate early retirement. In order to mitigate the explosion of unemployment due to economic downturn, it resorted to the full opening of the retirement door. Beneficiary internship is... Extensive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Full incompetence for work due to the disability of the booms, an internship is being purchased with 655 thousand 788 pensioners since 1990, and we have been coming to a million 17,000 801 pensioners in 1999. Following such a policy, we were given the fact that the average income of age pensioners is only 31 years and the user of disability pensions is 23 years. So we have young pensioners, especially disabled pensioners, who are very young, who have become so sick that they are completely incompetent to work. Unlike other European Union countries, we retire our disabled without professional rehabilitation and requalification. It is also difficult to expect that both retraining and a professionally rehabilitated disability would have the prospect of hiring besides over 300 thousand unemployed at the Employment Office. Nevertheless, we consider the retirement population to be harmful, and for the disabled to work unfairly, their easy exclusion from the world of work. Such a pension system has proved unsustainable and has therefore joined a pension system reform that should not show its positive side for 10 years. And what about until then? Further pension insurance is financed from the current payment of contributions and revenues from the State budget. In 2005, the revenues amounted to 15 billion 715 million 300, 535 thousand 776 kuna and the State budget of 8 billion 532 850 701. So a two-and-a-half billion drop. We are looking for an explanation and an answer whether or not we are asking the question of pensioners paying and government obligations for certain categories of pensioners. Furthermore, what is very indicative that nothing is said about strengthening the contribution and how it is achieved? We believe in the HSS and claim that it is possible to achieve and increase the revenues themselves from the contribution. How? Certainly not by increasing the rates and paying them. So the 20% rate is too high and now given the salary level. It is noted that in the 1970s it was 14 to 15%, and pensions amounted to 65% of the salary. If there is no significant increase in new employees, and given the lack of ideas and all these solutions that the government does not have, it will almost be. The revenue of the contribution can also be increased by introducing financial discipline and control as well as by the basis of payments and by curbing the black labour market. It is generally known that in Croatia the work on black blooms. Workers shall not report or pay contributions. Those declared as the basis for the calculation of the contribution shall be reported at the lowest basis. The employer steals the state but also steals the employee. And now and now and in the future. We're wondering what the inspectors are doing. To effectively exercise payment control, we are confident that income from contributions will be increased. We will rarely hear from employees that his salary consists of two parts, or two contributions. One that receives the basis of payment lists on which contributions are paid, and the other receives in cash on hands. Since this is almost a general phenomenon, can the state system not establish effective control from which pensioners and workers and the State budget would benefit? And now something about doing business with the Bureau itself. The rapporteur says: "The professional, administrative, legal, economic and other affairs for the sake of smooth, rational, successful pursuit of the activities of the Institute and the availability of pension rights to all insured persons are carried out by the Institute's professional service." It is secured on the territorial principle in the central service. 20 districts, 86 outposts. If we have 20 counties in Croatia and the City of Zagreb then it is obvious that one county did not have a field service in the last year, which is the Virovitičko-Podravska. And that's what we pointed out last year for that problem. And it wasn't until this year's 9th month, and that office worked. So we were right when we pointed out this problem of dysfunction in one part of Croatia's Institute. The Office is run by the Administrative Council. It discussed 84 points at sessions in 2005. The problem of the Bureau. And in 16 points about the problem of the Office's portfolio. Interestingly, even after the founding injustices in the work of the Institute by the State Audit Office, it remains that there are still them and the Director of the Institute is taking action to remove these irregularities. We're asking a question so how long will the barren programs be brought in? If someone doesn't do their job well, they should back off. The material says that pension insurance is becoming increasingly difficult to fulfill its primary task, which is to ensure the risk of age, inability to work and the death of family guardians. And we ask again what is being done with the regular collection of contributions? The revenue of the Office of Revenue from the Budget has not been put in the right relationship compared to the previous year to see the difference. And so are the other revenues. The average monthly gross salary of employees compared to the previous year is interestingly lower. Why? I'm asking a question. Is it because new people have been hired, even though there is a ban on employment? Furthermore, directors and assistants are appointed by the Government and have two now assistants with the status of acting officials. Why? I'm asking a question. I'd like to ask a question about Chapter 4. The management of the Bureau, the work of the Governing Council. How is the issue of Dubrovnik, Bizovaske spa resolved? Furthermore, in section 6 of the Office's portfolio, we do not understand how many cases are in court and how many Croatian Pension Insurance Offices have profits? So which of the 17 companies of the Office's portfolio did you sell? He needs them, I believe, and I ask him to count himself. Moreover, in 2005, the Capital Fund earned a profit of 79 million 642 823,51 kuna and an unrealised profit of 323 million 587 748 07 kuna. That's where, for example, Christmas Day is for retired people? Pay for your claims and pay for your Christmas card. In your home records, you point out the fall of the farmer's insurance company. Well, that's also normal because farmers with their current status can't pay pension insurance, so we've proposed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act... national pensions that unfortunately did not go the way we wanted them to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report says the income generated from the rent of the business space and the housing fund, and that is not small. Describing expenditures are said to be 53 million 402, 430 kuna spent on services. Why so much when 11 million 320 thousand 052 for other operating expenses? What kind of favors are these? We don't know. There's usually a lot of things under that kind of cover. It is reportedly paid for the services of law offices and the Institute has an extremely large and legal service. Why isn't she doing her part of the job and giving it to others? So we expected in the end a really quality analysis, unfortunately we didn't get it. The club of the representatives of the HSS will take note of the report, pointing to the need for better payment of contributions and management of the Institute's assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74078	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74079	Thank you, Mr. President. So I have to correct the incorrect assumption that a substantial portion of the debt was paid back to the pensioners at the time of the coalition government. It's just not true, it's not true. Looks like you're suggesting the pensioners were getting their debt back without knowing about it. My colleague, if that were the case then this HDZ government and coalition partners would not have welcomed the debt of that height that was agreed and very clear. So don't suggest anything that has nothing to do with the truth and the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74080	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Krunoslav Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74081	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74082	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74083	On behalf of the HSS Club, a colleague incorrectly stated the government's lack of ideas, namely this modern, clear, transparent business report says that this government has made a major leap and that it is precisely in this direction that the standards raised to the end and what belongs to the pensioners are given to them. Furthermore, it is very clear that from this very business of the Peace Institute it is clear that he has made major shifts and that he is just handling in the best possible way those cases that fall under the jurisdiction of the court. And the cheapest, most economical and most meaningful thing is to hire lawyers to engage in disputes, and lawyers who are in the house they have something to do without litigation. Therefore, this report should be supported and these inaccuracies indicated that they are no longer repeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74084	For PGS, SBH, MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74085	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the regional party club, I would like to say that we keep the report in technical terms and by the number of data and by giving the overall picture of the situation in the pension and disability insurance system to a correct good report, that there is a lot of data. But the second fact is that a lot of data and what's coming out of the data doesn't make us happy. And we think that based on that state and policy that's being run in the pension and disability insurance system, it's not good. The position of Croatian pensioners can still be characterised with only one word, which is that it is difficult. According to the data, over half a million Croatian pensioners are on the verge of poverty. It is also clear from the data report that the perspective of those who need to retire is weak because the trend of real decline in value, the real decline in the amount of pensions is present. With 75% of the average pension rate in average salary over 63% and falling to 37% somewhere in '98. and '99. We're somewhere at 42% today. And we at the regional party club think that the average pension on average should be 52% or more, and that should be a minimum. Looking at the overall report and state and policy, we believe that the system of generation solidarity remains irreplaceable and necessary in the Republic of Croatia. After criminal conversion and privatisation, when 400,000 jobs went into the wind and after the change of that relationship, 1 pensioner in today's 1.39 employees to one pensioner, the fact that taxes and contributions are almost covered by basic age and early retirement is actually about vitality, even the endurance of Croatian society, even if we want to say economies regardless of what he has lived through both conversion and privatisation and war. In view of the fact that Croatian society has not yet been more serious about the gray economy and that, regardless of the measures that appear occasionally, there has been no significant results, then we can see that there is a space in which we can ensure that the system of generational solidarity functions as a backbone of our pension and disability system. In this regard, we want to make it clear that regional parties believe that these 11.9% of GDP pensions are something below which they should not also go under. I don't think the reduction trend should continue absolutely and that at this level of participation in GDP with pensions should remain. Why shouldn't it be reduced? For not continuing to create injustice. That is why we would like to say a few words about what we think of pension reform. Peace reform in '99. Except that in one part it has consolidated in a financial sense the system has made 352,000 pensioners since 1.1.'99. injustice. '99. minus 7% ended up with minus 21% and real pensions dropping and so that perspective is that I don't know it might be in 2007. 25% less something that should be stopped and thus the total percentage of the gross social product does not fall. We think that for this reason it is necessary to expect from the Government an emergency measure, not the work of the committees that are formed that meet once, so again I don't know how long they don't meet, the urgent measures that would suggest how the Government I mean to stop a real drop in the pension of people who are going to retire tomorrow, who will leave in a month or in January 2007. Why do we think there's room for that? When we look at the movements of the state budget, when we look at what our country's financial situation is, pensions with 27 billion can be a system for which more than 2 billion kunas can be provided in this society that need to be provided in order to have a situation of halted settlement of new pensioners. Recently, I saw another trend on the Croatian government's pages. In addition to the tendency to reduce the percentage of pensions in the gross social product, I saw it projected for example. The tendency to reduce the percentage of health in the gross social product to about 6, something. And in the system, in the case of a pension and disability system and in the system, in the case of a health system, it is both slightly more than two billion or perhaps four and a half billion kunas should be found, balanced in the system, in the projection of the state budget, in a way that we do not slide towards the non-social state, but that we leave Croatia according to the characteristics of the social and health system in the circle of social states. I think that Croatian society, the Croatian economy and the Croatian state can do so primarily in a way that they definitely and seriously deal with the grey economy, that there should be a necessary increase in employment of the few percent that would give us a basis for income growth, that four and a half billion, two and two hundredths of them for the pension and health system, and that we remain a social state. For this reason, by criticizing the system and the policy that, and the tendencies in the pension and disability system, we only take note of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74086	Thank you. And yes, and distinguished representative Zeljko Pavlic, proceed on behalf of the same club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74087	Your Honor, the Honorable gentlemen of the Bureau. So let me continue this discussion and, therefore, I propose some measures to improve, we agree that today we have agreed today and many times so far in this House that the position of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia is very difficult, but unfortunately, often it comes down to just a story. So there may be another point here, and the fact that the average pension for about 800,000 pensioners is therefore for a larger number of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia somewhere around a thousand and four hundred kunas, therefore smaller than the average in total. And we have also heard that the poverty line in the European Union is set at EUR 214 or about six thousand, which means that 800,000 pensioners live below that limit. The peace of up to a thousand and five hundred kuna in our country receives as many as 450 thousand pensioners, while pensions of up to two thousand kuna receive about 690,000 pensioners. So we see that, that the large number of pensions in the Republic of Croatia are actually less than the average that we are listed here for last year. Speaking of measures to be taken and, therefore, as soon as possible, we agree that they should be both short- and long-term. In the short term, we primarily think about changing the laws that have come into the parliamentary procedure, and therefore regarding changes in the status of new pensioners, and also here is the problem of lagging behind existing pensions in relation to the average salary which is therefore around 41, slightly more than 41% compared to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. There has been a lag behind, therefore, in the past few months or this year, because last year, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, which has again been updated by the Swiss formula, thus calculating the height of the salary increase, also gave the Swiss formula an opinion on the pensioners who point out that the fact that again in the application of the Swiss pension adjustment formula for them is unfavourable because the pensions under that formula will continue to lag behind the salaries. This is unfortunately happening, and there is also the fact that experts have calculated in their own time to make pensions if they had been paid by 2004 exclusively by cutting salaries, in order to increase by 39% instead of 19%, and now this slowdown is still being intensified. As far as long-term measures are concerned, the only cure for solving these problems is the accelerated growth of our economy in the long term. But unfortunately, our economy, i.e. The gross social product, in our opinion, is growing too slow to change anything recently. Growth in GDP in 2005 compared to 2004 was only a few changes, growth in 2005 was 4.3%,... 3.8%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's too slow to grow. Because what happened? In particular, employment has grown simply too little, and we all agree that the main solution to this problem is to increase the number of jobs, i.e. increase in the number of ratios one to three, as was the case in 1990. For example, the employment of the latest data this government gave this Parliament is small or almost nothing, according to the government itself. The number of persons employed in June this year was at the level of a million 440 thousand and 87 people, representing an increase of 1% compared to the previous month, while the number of employees increased by 0.7% compared to June 2005. That's too small, therefore, the number of increases. Employment 2005/2004 In 2004, there were millions and 409 thousand employees, 2005 million and 420 thousand employees. So again, too few employees who could take that burden on their backs. Just to point out that in 1990, when the relationship was 3 to 1, a million 968 thousand 773, so almost or almost two million employees were employed, and the insurance company was 655 thousand, so almost twice what it is today. So, without investing in the economy, without discharging the same economy, without increasing employment, there is no long-term solution to this problem, and we think that there is too little work to do. What is also important is the question and transitions of our economy, i.e. the average salary of employees in the Republic of Croatia. Today it is about four and a half thousand kuna, but a large number of employees in the Republic of Croatia have a much, much smaller salary. Because here's an example of my Međimurje County where there are about 22 thousand employees, of which 12 thousand employees in the processing industry, 3 thousand 300 in the store and two thousand in the construction industry. So more than half of them or almost 2/3 of them have an average salary of less than three thousand kuna, i.e. in the processing industry is an average salary of 2 000 950, in the store... 680, in construction 2 thousand 527. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's the average wage, and the employee's salary is lower, it's somewhere thousands of 900, 2,000 kuna. What their payments are, therefore, pension payments, what pensions they will have, and for the long term, we must be very careful. So, we all very easily stress the need for Croatia to be transformed from a working intensive state to a therefore knowledge society. So here we will take note of this report with the intention that these remarks will find their place in future social and economic policy as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74088	Thank you. It's a final debate on clubs. Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute Mile Rukavina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74089	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I would answer a part of the questions asked here. I consider it my obligation not to have some things left unaccounted for. Here, first of all, there was talk that some data in the report was missing which is not quite so, I'll just, for example, there were a lot of questions, I'll ask you some questions as precisely as I could record. I beg your pardon if I misrepresented any of the questions, it's not intentional. For example, there were talk of performances and public relations. This information exists in the report, in the section in which it should be on the work of the Institute with the public and in the summary report. However, I thank you for this question because it indicates that the Bureau is doing well in this segment as well. For example, for 2004, we had a thousand 971 performances, in 2005, we have a thousand 431, meaning 500 and slightly less. Despite the difficult position of the pensioners, of course, the Institute also contributes in a way that facilitates the situation as far as our work is concerned, our professional work. Secondly, it was a question that there was no information about the age and temporary pensions achieved in 2005. This information exists here on page 7 and amounts to 23 thousand 986. As far as the Director's relationship with the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors is concerned, I don't see any reason why it would stand to be concluded that the Office is run by the Director, not the Administrative Council. The responsibility of the Director and the Board of Directors and formally, and indeed divided and established by law and statute, is very precise that the powers of the Management Board are and are the responsibilities of the Director. Secondly, there was a speech about voting on the board. I have to mention that for the sake of here and members of the board who are doing their job. Phone voting, i.e. by fax or e-mail, is done in exceptional cases, it is not a rule and that is how many institutions in the world do so and in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think there are any problems or doubts. Of course, important questions aren't exactly decided by phone. It was one of about 500 million that were allegedly paid into the budget from REGOS. I have no doubt about this information that REGOS has paid the state budget, however, this is the ratio of the budget and the REGOS. However, as far as the Institute's office is concerned, it has received from the budget because it is, that is, the obligation of the budget when it comes to the second pillar, exactly how much the law provides, and in the legal way, and there is no doubt there. There were speeches that the Croatian Privatisation Fund had an obligation, but not the right to rule the shares. I won't mention those words well, the adjectives who went along with it, but I will answer very precisely. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation is precisely laid down in Article 1 on the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Fund. If he had an obligation, and not the right, I wouldn't have de-polemized, I'd just point out, read the legal provision. It clearly includes the management and the Croatian Privatisation Fund under that law since 2000, which means management, sale and any other availability of shares and business shares referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. I think we're clear here. Both the Croatian Institute and the Croatian Privatisation and Administrative Council are doing the job exactly according to the legal provisions and in a prescribed manner. There was talk that, that we had silenced that the former government, the coalition government, had two laws from the mandate passed the government. It's not true we didn't say anything. I mentioned it in my presentation, and even here I remember when I was talking about the funds of the Institute then here I was talking about the Law on increasing pensions to remove the differences from 2001, and in the Report you have in four or five places clearly written about the law, and as regards the Law on Transfers to Pension Insurance Funds, the truth is that the Law adopted the Government before 2000. '97. A year. If the coalition government continued to pay off according to this, it is those 100 kuna plus 6% in addition to pension, the current government continued to pay off and the law was amended in April 2004 by the Pension Insurance Act and that amount was included in the pension. Here's to it. Next, I'd like to answer some questions that were about here a few things. As far as assistant directors are concerned, they're officers of duty. The Institute is in the process of modernization and transition, and we estimate that at this point there is no reason why the assistants do not retain that status, because it is precisely these sectors, that is, that these roles will be summed up and there is no need for us to go to the appointment of assistants, and that segment is being restructured. There have been talks about a programme to remove irregularities, why we bring it in, that it's barren, but the fact is that we've been working on this programme for two years, and we've managed to remove all irregularities, so we're also finding an audit that's why it's impeccable. Therefore, it is not barren this program. It was a question of services to lawyers and other services. It is doubtless that the Institute’s professional service is working, however certain specific disputes before and now carry out high professional law houses when it comes to disputes of very high value, and other services are telephone services, current investment maintenance, municipal infrastructure, rents, e.g. postal services amount to only 18 million. I believe I answered the most important questions, I'm sorry if I missed something. I'm still obliged to answer the question, there were talks about the position of the pensioner. I know it's impossible to separate the state of the system, the debate on the state of the pension insurance system from the work of the institution, and it's simply impossible. However, it is doubtless that the position of pensioners is the same as I would have mentioned only two things. First of all, I would remind all of us that the position of the pensioners at this point is conditioned by certain things. The Republic of Croatia inherited the pension system, and here I am going to finish, with a high level of rights where there were mild conditions for the exercise of rights and high various rights, and pension regulations until the period of 98. The government's expert group, which I am in, is working fast to solve the problem of new pensioners, and I believe that this problem will be successfully solved as well. I would point out that the Institute is doing better, significantly repairing its up-to-dateness, carrying out a successful modernisation and reconstruction, and that we have removed all the irregularities we have encountered and that we are trying as hard as possible in business as possible, and as this finding by the State Audit Office has been found to have received an unconditional report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74090	Thank you very much. A few notices. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, meeting of the committee at 13.00 in the hall "Stepana Radića". The Committee for Information, Information and Media, meeting of the Committee at 13.30 in the hall "Ivan Mažuranić". We continue the debate individually. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74091	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Director, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say from this examination a concise report, rely on its individual parts, but let me say something about the introduction. That Croatia still inherited a system with a high level of rights. Let's just remember going to retirement at 50 and 55 for women, for men 60 and 65, that it was taken 10 of the most favourable years, and in fact we had it all together not followed by the economic situation. Here it is now said on several occasions that poor privatisation ended with a loss of 400,000 jobs. I would like to say that, in fact, all of this has contributed to the fact that these many companies in the 1990s have been bankrupt or bankrupt, that this has been contributed by war and transition from socialist to market economy and certainly has contributed to poor privatisation and I am not also sharing an opinion, I cannot agree that all those who have legally sinned not to sanction as long as necessary. The war of transition from this socialist market economy certainly has brought the pension system into difficulty, and therefore insufficient pensions. Certainly, the democratic situation in our society has contributed to all of this, and let us not forget that we already have more than 16% of the participation of older people over 65 years of age who place us in the ranks of the old peoples. Therefore, the basic question that is asked is how to come up with a system, a pension system that is economically sustainable. We can express our many wishes and objections, but the system needs to be economically sustainable and how this system to ensure one social security at the risk of age, disability or death of a family fosterer. From the report here we can and multiple times here is highlighted, and I will do it again, that we have with December 31st, so a million and 80 thousand 571 pensioners while the number of employees is a million and 498.877 and that ratio is now 1:1.39. True, this ratio was slightly improved compared to 2003 when it was 1:1.36 but certainly inaccessible, inaccessible. Then we have an old-age pensioner of only 25% and, 52% while our disabled pensioner is 25.14%. The number increased in 99 when due to changes in the law, in fact, all those who worked part-time or had a professional job incompetence gained the conditions to make a disability pension, and therefore the number of some 67 users, meaning the number of 67,000 has increased, the number of disability pensions has increased. I would also join colleagues who have previously pointed out that we actually have to stop the number of these new disability pensions, they are actually bigger and stopped by changing laws and definitions, which is both professional incompetence and how it is assessed, but certainly better protection at work. I would say that we have appropriate legislation and it adapts and everything, but it lacks its consistent change, application. Let me just point out that, say, the average age of users of retirement in our country is 66 years for women, 69 years for men, and that this has been improved by one year since 2003. I'd say using a pension is somewhere the length of a pension being used around here doesn't change very much, and it's 15 years old, and it's for a disabled 18. But what's also important is that our average retirement rate is 28 years. Only 28 years old and 31 years old, while 23 years of disability. When we talk about social security for our pensioners here, the words were hard to say, that it was never worse which is certainly not true. Then there was the death of a pensioner when, during the war, they were the only ones to bear the burden of war and the burden of transition and of all these pores that were going on. I'm sure the pensioners have put up with a great burden, but they've also put up with labor. We remember all the salaries and everyone, and the workers and ourselves as little as they were in it. So we see information that somewhere 32.71% of pensioners are receiving a pension under a thousand and 500. Let's say in 2003, that number was 47.3. So that number's getting smaller after all. It is 29.67 and between a thousand and a half to two and 34.44, however, has a pension of 2 thousand to 4 thousand kuna. I would like to point out here that the pension of farmers is really low, which is certainly a reflection of the shorter payment of contributions, but also of the small levels of that contribution. They are the same pensioners who are in a difficult position, pensioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, who are now in our system and indeed have pensions that are insufficient to live. The report says that the average pension in December 2005 was 848 kuna, which makes this 41.32%. We said and here it was repeatedly highlighted if we were to count on it for the whole working life then it would be 62.37% which could put us in line here some countries say Belgium 67%, Finland 63, Germany the same 63, Slovakia 63, but certainly we are far from some other countries that have, say Luxembourg 98%, Ireland has 78%, Slovenia 82%. But surely we cannot expect our pensions to reach that level. What we have is the same time of the past is that in the table this would point out, let's say we have participants in the People's Liberation War or the NOR still using 59,000. 59 thousand 244. And here's my colleague Cain always said that you've had a small share of those pensions, but it says here that 50.54% means they're still higher than the average, while, say, Croatian defenders are 39 thousand. So when we just take those two categories, then we see how much it's actually burdened with that. It has often been heard here in this assembly since 2000-2003 that even 49% of pensions have been heard, which we can say immediately from the eye that it certainly can't be true, but here in the report it also says that in 2002 and 2003 the average pension rate in average salary decreased to increase in 2004 after the calculation of the pension allowance of 100 plus 6% in the basics, which then had a favourable impact on the level of pension in 2005. And the user, colleague Cain, here, made it clear how many pensions they were, the participation of the pension on the salary for the year 2000-2003, which absolutely means that he was telling this story that the pensions didn't grow significantly at that time, and that we're not talking about salaries and we still remember the time that the salaries of civil servants in health and many were reduced to 20 and more. It does not seem, therefore, that something important has been done that certainly does not justify us not working on it even more. This is now the pension reform has certainly achieved that it has systematically started to stabilise, that it has reduced the inflow of new pensioners, which is due to changes in the legal rules but here and reduced the share of the gross social product. However, if we consider that in 2003 it was 13.4 and now it is 2005. 11.92, that means, however, one significant shift in the stabilisation of that system and that we must say for sure that in recent years this very high retirement is one of the significant factors and the growth of public spending. But what happened? It happened that now the new pensioners are in a more unfavourable position and I think the most affected are those who weren't bonds of the second pillar's payment, are we all going to have to take care of the pension and not just rely on the state ourselves, so it's an individual capitalised savings. And the particular question that I would like to support here and ask the importance of this question is really what we see daily in practice. We see that in our environment and everything that's done on black, that the minimum wage is reported, that part of the salary is given on hand, that part of the salary goes over the pay list, that the employees check in at 4 o'clock, at 2 o'clock, so only when we remember that picture from Osijek where these women work for a thousand 700, it seemed to me that the pay was. So what kind of salary is it that thousands and 700 kunas work every day and Saturday and they don't get it yet? So in a society like this, I think we really need to pay special attention to that, and sanction every such situation without talking about issuing a lot of services without an account, and every time I get really upset when I come anywhere for coffee, just or somewhere else when it's being charged without an account, and if you're looking for it, it's gonna be...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74092	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74093	Here's what's normal to say, though, is that we're still working on improving the pensioners. This same damage... will still improve 426 and more plus these 25 thousand, then open new centres for daily stays, help and him in the house, delivery meals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this will actually improve the quality of life and contribute to one social security of third-age persons or pensioners. And I wouldn't say they don't have a future. They have futures, but we need to make sure she's even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74094	Thank you. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Dear Representative Stephen Kozina.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74095	Mr. Vice President! Dear representatives of the pension fund! My colleagues and fellow MPs! Topic of discussion of this report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005. According to the introduction, the report under consideration is compulsory pension insurance based on generation solidarity. It is further stated that Croatia has inherited a system with a high level of rights. I don't know, I couldn't agree with that, because the Retirement Insurance Act wasn't invented by the state, it was created by the workers themselves. During the development and collection of growing funds, rights also spread. According to this, those rights that were inherited were a normal product of the participation of financial resources in these funds. It further states that the pension amounted to 65% of the salary. Normal. It was so then according to all the criteria that were current at the time. Today, this report is about 41.32%. I think that's what it says in there, 41.32%. On the other hand, the pensioner ratio was 3:1. I couldn't exactly accept this as a fact that before there were workers' funds, farmers' funds, independent craftsmen's funds, auto transporters and caterers, and the army was also in a special fund. According to this, that ratio is not exactly correct. Maybe that difference is plus, minus 10%, but that's how much of a ratio I just don't believe. If we can even connect these unemployed around 400,000, then we can't get that ratio 1:3 but that ratio would be a little bit different. Therefore, also according to that right analysis before pensions are paid before and paid now I think that pension should be more favourable and should be about 50% of the salary. Therefore, it should continue to have a trend of growth. A large number of pensioners are listed. That's what I'm talking about, and that's why I'm saying that we need to weigh it down a little bit, we need to see it, and we need to follow it properly, the data is being displayed as de facto. Total revenues in 2005 amounted to €27.3 billion. From this, the contribution is 15.7 and 11.4 from the state budget. It's not exactly how much the transition funds are, I'm here trying to analyze it a little bit, but I didn't get to this. And I'm also asking if it's the right collection, whether it's being properly collected, if there's any control over this collection. Also, whether there is control from the state budget, whether the state budget can be freed as it was some time ago and freed or if these revenues are real as they are. I've been looking at these regressed funds here for a while. I don't know why these regressive procedures are being conducted, and these funds are actually negligible in 2005 so I'd like to know what that applies to and how it should be. As regards the portfolio of the institution according to the report, it was stated that there were irregularities in the work and that court disputes were conducted. I want to know what stage these disputes are in, who they're referring to, and why they're disputes. I don't think they should be because yet retirement law is what the pension fund got and there shouldn't be anyone to mix their fingers in. The problem of new pensioners. I have an opinion here. First of all, they are calculating pensions now for more than twenty years and for this there are no relevant data. There's been real data since '86. and for earlier years they are partially accurate and partly incorrect because for some categories of insurance companies there are no exact indicators as it should be. That's the first one, so I think it should only be applied for twenty years where the data is accurate and normal to make the situation a little more favourable. Secondly, as regards this current value point. I don't know, I've read that the administrative council has brought the actual value of the point that's somewhere, now it's about 50 and some kuna. In my opinion, that value should be significantly higher. Why am I saying that? First of all, if Article 175 of the Law had been respected then the actual value of the points could be determined, however, the article is not respected. I will read it: "Extremely from the provision of Article 81 of this Act, the current value of pensions for the period from 1 January to 30 June 1999 will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 31 March 1999 at the latest by the level of pensions achieved by 31 December 1998. A year.". I don't think that current value of points could be correctly determined then, and that's why we have that difference between old and new pensioners because I think it should be about 60 kuna. Why? If it had increased by this 10% in the first year, we would have a balanced situation between old and new pensioners today. Therefore, I believe that this is a failure that should be corrected because we have this political struggle about it today, it should not even happen at all. So these pensions need to be settled in the way the law provides. I'm not about to pass new laws, new regulations. Only if that doesn't satisfy it, then we need to know that 5% less contributions are made to a pension fund than new pensioners because they apply, new insurance companies because a second pillar is applied where 5% is allocated to a new column. So the legislator was obliged to bring those funds to implement the new law. So, this 5% missing now in generation solidarity. It should be and should be done the way it should be. Here something is said about the material basis of employee work, it is said that the information has been fully implemented. I can't agree with that because it was carried out in part. You have department leaders who don't have access to the Internet. I think we should all have Internet access and not just this... What do you call it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we should all have that approach so that we can do so. Now, let me finish a little. I have to realize here that pensions are low but no one's complaining about it if it's real. Why? Because there were always pension rights as they were according to the possibilities of the fund. Therefore, we must advocate that we apply the original laws of pension insurance, that no one interferes with these funds because we need to know that a reserve was taken in 1992, that during the 1990s contributions were released. I'd like us to know exactly what the funds are, so those funds could be used to repay the compensation, and there wouldn't be any problem with us getting it back. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74096	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74097	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute! First of all, I have to protest that there are no ministers from the government today when discussing such an important and important topic because it is not the purpose of the debate on reports, in this case the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, to determine what the situation is but rather the purpose of such reports is to draw conclusions that will fix this bad situation and give the possibility that the situation of the pensioners will no longer be as it is. In my opinion, three important messages are from this report. The first is an important message and points to a harsh reality, and this is what the position of Croatian pensioners is today if over 570 thousand, or nearly 650 thousand pensioners of millions and 100,000 do not have enough means to meet those most necessary needs for life, so they cannot provide a minimum for a decent life and that they can help their family too, and we know that in many situations these pensioners who have such low incomes unfortunately support their children who are unemployed. And that was the best picture of yesterday's report by this United Nations agency that they're coming forward to, which means yesterday was the international Day of Combating Poverty, that we have about 40% of the population below the minimum and that it can be considered poor because it cannot meet the necessary existential conditions for itself and for its family. The very fact that the average pension is 1.868.00 kuna, and below that average, that average pension does not receive at least 500 thousand pensioners enough to talk about the situation in which pensioners are located, and it is also a particular problem for new pensioners, as the ratio of pensions to average wages is getting lower and lower year after year. Now it's 42%, and that's not enough and the average salary if you take that basket as union as long as it takes to meet the needs and then you don't have to be surprised that various situations happen. So today we have located three of the most important problems, which is why the pension fund, the pension system, means the first system here, I think unfortunately it will long exist because a lot of pensioners are based on intergenerational solidarity when taking the age structure of our pensioners is visible that there must be measures taken. One part of the measures that are important to mention here again, this relates to the part that contributions are made every year, means to isolate what is set out, insurance companies, so workers, are getting smaller and smaller. So according to this report, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute only meets 57.6% of total funds, which are more than 27 billion kuna, which are used to pay off pensions while 42.4% satisfy from the state budget. So that's where we can react because we know that most employers report workers on minimum wage so the fact that the rate is even higher doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything. The rate is higher than said in the report that the rate was in the '70s, now it's about 20% but then there was a larger number, the ratio was 3:1, even for a time it was before and 6:1. So this part where we can react, means the increase in the minimum wage and that the rule of law works in that part that employers don't cheat, they cheat on the state on the one hand, but they cheat on workers too, because tomorrow he will be a pensioner, and we know that the first system of reciprocity and solidarity is based on the fact that the level of pension should be an adequate period that he has set aside and amounts that he or she has paid to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. The second part of the important measures refers to the part that obviously, although we have standards, it does not work in practice, and it is again an employer who does not provide its workers with protective measures as prescribed and what standards are because it is visible to us, it is now somewhere around 234 thousand 829 users of disabled pensions. Last year, there were more than 7,000 new ones, and therefore it is the essence of work protection, the application of all these measures, as this will reduce the number of people who will go into disability pensions. This also applies to this part of the so-called part. Benefited internship, i.e. special internship. That's about 110 thousand users. So if we don't take this kind of action... plus what's most important, and this is about us finally dealing with those who robbed the country in conversion and privatisation, because the number of about 400,000 jobs nobody invented, it was determined by the State Audit that in the process and during the conversion and privatisation of 400 thousand people ended up on the road and it's visible that one part of the users of temporary disability pensions entered the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, because in 1990 there were 656 thousand pensioners, we now have somewhere over a million and 107 thousand. So that's where you can find that number and everything we're talking about. The third problem is the fourth relationship, which the director himself said, that it was a really illogical situation since 2000 because we know that the Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance from the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Institute, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, was given this part. In the end, you had funds to serve in terms of improving the situation of pensioners, i.e. improving the revenue side, and eventually the Croatian privatisation office again managed the portfolio. I mean it's really a noncens that can't be bigger. It's a variant that I manage, say, the property of the Deputy Prime Minister or Vice President of the Parliament. ... Here you go, and here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, here we are. Here's what I wanted for you, here's where you can't do it right now. So there are a lot of these dubiouss and situations, and we need to make conclusions that will go into terms of solving this situation and giving perspective that we are mandatory and according to current pensioners, meaning according to our grandparents, according to our parents, and we are mandatory and for the sake of all those who will retire tomorrow, for 10 years because this does not lead to good luck if we meet only this report and do not take the appropriate measures that this situation will fix. Because we have to be aware, the representatives can do nothing more unless we as the Croatian Parliament adopt regulations, or we take measures to bring this situation into order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74098	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74099	I would correct an alleged inaccuracies that actually hides, and then I'm afraid of the real truth. According to counterpart Kovacevic, the average share of average pensions and average salaries is 42%. In August there was this one, and now I'm looking at the computer, 39.69%. In other words, what is now shown in September is a pension with a backlog, so to coordinate. In other words, we can expect her to be below 39% again at 12 months or in January. Just so we know what we're talking about, it's not really clouding the truth. The proportion of pensions in the average salary permanent waste in 2003 was 45%, 49.7% in 2002.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74100	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So as usual as every year we have a report on the business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in the previous year. It's a collection of data that'll tell us a little bit if we don't engage in analysis. We expected such analysis in the report, but we didn't get it, and so we can say that the report itself is no more quality than in previous years, which shows that the rapporteurs have no hearing about the demands and proposals of the MPs. From the information presented, we will see that despite the bulky civil apparatus, requirements for the exercise of pension insurance rights are not fully resolved. During the observed period, 28.26% of the age and early retirement requirements remained unsolved and 29.04% were left unresolved. If we look at the area services, we will see that only the district service in Koprivnica is almost up-to-date, while other services record backlogs up to as much as 45%, such as. Zadar County Service. As in previous years, and now I want to point out the inaccessible lengthy, inadmissible long-term resolution because it is about people who have earned their pension and often have no savings so that they can wait for a long time for what they have done neatly. If the field service in Koprivnica can be updated, it is impossible to find reasonable differences for other services to be delayed. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the number of staff in the Bureau is growing compared to the previous years, and yet no update is achieved. Although this report does not contain a comparative display of data compared to several previous years, we will still see that there are a million 498 thousand insurance companies in Croatia and a million 15,000 pensioners, which shows a small increase in the number of insurance companies over pensioners. The slight increase in insurance records each county, except for the County of Brod-Posavina. Compared to 2004, there is a drop in insurance but also an increase in the number of pensioners. This information can only surprise those who do not know that this county has the lowest gross social product in Croatia, and where there is no production there is neither new employment nor new insurance companies. It is precisely this information that speaks of the policy of unbalanced development of regions and counties within the region, which should be the task of state authorities. The Ship-Posavia County is on the verge of the state government's interest, and the county government is powerless compared to the bureaucratic wall of the state government. Data at national level continue to indicate the unsustainability of the pension system in which the ratio of pensioners and insurance undertakings is 1:1.39. This unsustainability was the reason for the need for pension reform, which was designed and defined by law during 1997 and '98. A year. And the Pension Insurance Act began to apply from January 1, 1999. A year. Today, 7 years since the start of the reform and the law, it has been evident that the reform has been unspeakable, without simulation, which will mean the upcoming pensioners. Today, everyone, except the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is very clear that the reform is unfair. We're getting contradictory statements from the government, though. On the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, which corrects the injustices, according to the so-called so-called so-called ‘Staff’. The new pensioners are given a written opinion stating that a correction in our view of injustice is not possible because it violates the reform of the pension system, which suggests that this is exactly the kind of reform the government wanted. She's faced with public opinion. The prime minister says there is a problem, but he does not accept our proposal for a solution, but usually promises to solve the problem next year. New pensioners need a solution now because their average pension is only 29% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia. They cannot wait for the results of outwitting some allegedly formed task force. And those who are after 1.1.99. The year they retired should be compensated for what was taken from them by unfair and socially insensitive reform. These pensioners have 320 grand today, and in the end there will be 700 grand. To talk about the so-called The new pensioners don't mean to stop talking about all pensioners whose pensions are actually going down every day. Fortunately for the return of debt to old pensioners, she quickly erased the knowledge that for her pension today I can buy far less than it could have been three years ago. The coalition government has made pensions at 34.41% of the average salary. The law that began to apply since 1.1.2001 started the debt recovery process, and the average salary pension grew so that on 31.12.2003, at the end of the coalition government's term, it was 44.71% of the average salary. Instead of further growth, according to pre-election promises, pensions began to fall, so today it is 39% of the average salary. At the same time as the adoption of the Debt Reimbursement Act, amendments to the Pension Insurance Act have been adopted which amends the formula for harmonising pensions based on the real fall. Of course we're wondering who's paying the pensioners back, surely not the state. The pensioners themselves return through pension cuts and through the sale of their shares they have in capital companies, such as It's swimming. And further, 33% of the pensioners have a pension of up to a thousand and 500 kuna a month. If we look at the structure of the pensioners, we'll see that disability pensions have an average length of 23 years. It is obvious that our workers too young have become completely incompetent to work and are retired as such. Unfortunately, employers today have no obligation to offer the employee a job that corresponds to his remaining work and health skills. In practice, we do not operate the Law on requalification and professional rehabilitation, which is not the practice of European countries. In this law-defense chamber, too optimistic expectations of the law were heard. However, when we discussed the budget report for the first six months last week, we saw that there were no funds for requalification and professional rehabilitation. This category is definitely excluded from the world of work despite the fact that most of it is still health and workable for other jobs and, of course, under some other working conditions. Furthermore, the contribution table shows that in 2005 income was increased from contributions from 2004 by 5.6%. We don't know what the reason is, but we do know that no financial discipline has been introduced, that today perhaps the majority of employers are legally paying only the lowest wage, and the rest are black without suspended contributions and pension insurance. According to the State's Attorney's Office, more than a billion and 900 million kunas of bankruptcy claims have been reported to date. The majority refers to unpaid contributions, and very little is charged in bankruptcy proceedings. The Bureau in the report tells us that there are outstanding claims based on dividends, approved loans and interest accounts. It says that for certain claims they are brought before the competent courts by appropriate legal proceedings. We don't know who, why, and under what conditions credits were granted, but we know they weren't returned, and some claims were brought to trial. In this section, no complete information is provided which gives grounds for doubting that the pensioners' funds are re-treated as in the time between '90s. and in 2000, which led to the impoverishment of the Peace Fund, and pensions will continue to record a slight but safe fall. In particular, it is a worrying financial indiscipline, so for example yesterday we five representatives at the Ministry of Agriculture learned that one company that paid a net salary to state-owned workers without the pension insurance contributions paid, only in one small company was not paid 6 and a half million contributions, is not a large amount, but it is a terrible message. This is a message from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to all employers in the Republic of Croatia – do not pay contributions, because if we do not pay as a Government, neither do you, because you will avoid sanctions, and besides sanctions will not follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74102	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In her presentation, the colleague presented incorrect data on the share of wages, the share of pensions in the net salary from 2000 to 2003, and that there was an increase in salary, the share of pensions was a question of whether it was a reflection of the reduction in wages or the increase in pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74104	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74105	You tell your colleagues Lalic that pensioners pay their debt. You see, it's also an art of government, one trick of this government that gives nothing, and it figures as if it gives. And it's also, yes, so the pensioners themselves are paying back the debt, and there you are absolutely, absolutely right. Our prime minister said a few months ago exactly posthumously announcing the debt, the war, and so we already know how it came down to the story of two, three letters, because first those who died did not receive it, so they were not recognised even though the debts always burdened the heirs, then the fraud was with the family, because neither the family, the family pensioners in general were the women who inherited the husband's pension and they were excluded from that return, however, and so there was little left, in which way they returned. The prime minister said the funds were secured, that a month ago he would not say so much that you were against the sale of Pliva, are you against paying back the pensioners' debt? So it's coming back, so it wasn't true. Either it's not true what he's saying now or it's not true what he said before. And fellow Lalic, you're absolutely right. It's not true what he said before, not now. Retired truth is they repay their debt. But it thus figures as if that's how this government repays the debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74106	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74107	Well, colleague Anticevic, I agree when you said, "Here you are, you see, they know that I'm going to tell the truth and that's why they won't let me have the microphone on." So I absolutely agree with you that the government is very skilled in tricks that deceive Croatian people. But these tricks won't last long. No matter how much we now prove that it is not true that pensions are actually falling, compared to the average salary of the Republic of Croatia, so it is said that pensions are not falling but wages are falling. However, our parents who are retired or do not give God who is not retired know very well that for the pension they get today they can buy much less than they could three years ago. They can't even be happy with the so-called debt returns to old pensioners because at this point we have 320 thousand new pensioners whose pension is misery and misery, and the government says no, they can't be increased pensions because it violates system reform. So what are we... This is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia said in the written opinion delivered to us. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's a quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74108	Keep it down, keep it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74109	So, the government doesn't think that new pensioners need to be given what they've singled out and given over their lifetimes, and on this side we're paying back the debt to the old pensioners. To whom, how much and who brings it back? However, pensioners are well aware today that they are not being paid back by the one who took them, but are returning them through pension cuts, which is a reduction in pensions is the gift of this government, because the same government has, after the adoption of the Debt Reimbursement Act, brought amendments and additions to the laws amending the conformity formula. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74110	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74111	Well, actually, the replica was on the same subject. For me, there's a lot of cynicism when the current government boasts that it's coming back, and we see how it repays the debt to the pensioners. I am one of those who thinks, and I agree with the argument that the pensioners are paying themselves back and that their position is actually getting harder and harder and that it will be if this continues even harder. Let us not forget, I am a representative in the third term, that personally since then, the prime ministers of the Croatian government are here in the assembly responsible when I asked if, if the Government intends to repay the debt to the pensioners, I am responsible that the Croatian state owes nothing to the pensioners and that nothing has been taken from them. Well, then, the former prime minister. Then, former prime ministers, yes, yes. Former HDZ prime ministers. The fact is, the fact is that at least three, four times I got that answer from the prime minister of the HDZ government. The fact is yes, the fact is that when you do, The fact is they won't even let you speak in the Parliament. [[The intruders don't understand.]] So the fact is that when it was finally accepted to admit that it was wrongfully taken, kidnapped, I don't know what anybody calls it, a pensioner so many and so many pensions that it was considered a tremendous advance in solving these problems. And the way that this is happening right now, I think it's really such that one perpetum mobile was created, in quotes, politically that those who are being denied are returning to themselves by making it more difficult for them to become more and more of their position. It's so much more cynicism when the government boasts of great successes... [[Thank you. Replication response/]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74112	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74113	So you see fellow Jurevic really when we get those pensioners' film back a little bit then we have a lot to remember. You personally testified because you are a representative in three terms and indeed the government that was the same political options as today's government said: "No, the debt to the pensioners does not exist!" That is what the Deputy Prime Minister said. We hear from these benches today a challenge and a claim that it's someone else's government. So now we finally have to ask ourselves whether the government that is at that moment is implementing its own policy and not the party's policy, thanks to which it came to rule the Croatian people. The government, you know, and the name of the government itself is unsuitable because the government cannot rule, it must serve the people. ... And from this example on pensioners, tomorrow we will have an example and today we already have it on new pensioners we really see that the government is not wrong at all when it says that it is ruling. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] She truly rules and does not govern the welfare of these people. And then when under the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and then the government had to admit that the debt to the old pensioners existed and were then very shy. They did not have the courage to pass a law that would correct this injustice, but in 2000 the coalition government passed the Retirement Act, the Retirement Act, the increase of pensions to pay back debt to certain categories... /The speech is excluded./... That's what they admitted here in this House and the MPs from the Retirement Party. It was also recognised by Prime Minister Sanader in one of the asked answers to parliamentary questions. And now that we have a confession and a pensioner and a prime minister, it's still said that's not true. Yet the fact that this law returns... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74114	Thank you. Let's focus on this report this year. Not to mention the former government. 1971, 1991. ... [[So we need a little bit.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I know it hurts, but Vice President.]] The word has a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić. [[The intruders don't understand.]] He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to discuss this agenda point. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the feature of this report that we got today is that one billion of it leaked out of that report. One billion out of the Office's portfolio, and more when the 13.99% of that portfolio was made up of Pliva. But to go back to that first billion or more precisely to 914 thousand 500, 914 million 571 thousand 639 kuna. What's this about? It is that at one point, the privatisation adopted a Regulation on the sale and exchange of shares and on the sale and replacement of shares that ran in this way as the revision wrote it, and I will only list the shortcomings and the replacement without the public gathering of tenders. Without a decision by the competent authorities, no assessment of the value of the shares received and given has been carried out. The company’s business data were not visible. No evidence of stock ownership was originally obtained. The contracts were not marked by a regular number. The contract does not specify an act or regulation on the basis of which the replacement has been carried out. No replacement purpose was defined. Replacements have not been made in the interest of funds, pensions or funds, the Privatisation Fund. No data are available on the shares in the company's underlying capital before and after the replacement and the shares of companies where there was no such right. On the basis of such replacements, which the audit says were not made in accordance with the law, a debt was made, in fact kidnapped by pensioners of 900, means almost a billion kuna. Of those billions of kunas that have been taken, there is no word in this report. In 2004, you made a nice chapter saying, "The request from the Croatian Privatisation Fund for several committed shares." Gone. Who authorized it to be gone? Who took it from the pensioners and where did he go? Is that settled, did you give it yourself? Is that what the government gave? Was that a closed session? Was it a government phone session? There's no word in any way that these money's gone? I don't know, you'll probably say, "We've given to the management of the Privatisation Fund." That's right, that's right. It was given to management and you said under the new law, the Privatisation Fund is available and so far has had it with yours because you made a contract with them by which you gave them the team to have, and that's July 27, 2000. Since then, the Privatisation Fund has normally never submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament, and you yourself wrote in 2004: "As the Croatian Privatisation Fund until the end of February 2005, this is what you wrote in the 2004 report. "has not delivered the report on the state of the portfolio of the institution." I know it's not your fault, but I wonder where they are. There's no mention of debt to the pensioners in this one at all. Who and how will pay that debt back? And that debt has been real since '94. By the year when it was replaced every year a little bit more, in '94. Nothing, but then in the '95, '96. And in a row. Will the pensioners ever get it in the fund? That's the first thing. It's the first billion missing, and not a word of the billions stolen from the pensioners. I said the treasure was stolen. To return to what you also wrote in the 2004 report, which is the five strongest shares per share in the portfolio structure on 31 December 2004. You know what companies are then listed as the best firms in that portfolio? The first is the Liburnia Riviera hotels of Opatija with 17.9% stakes. We know that at what stage and we know and we assume that this game with Liburnia will cost this country at least 700 million kuna. And you know who the other one is? "Piva" Zagreb with 13.99% stake in this. And I ask you nicely who pays the pensioners back the debt? They're the gentlemen themselves. We're selling theirs. They were the owners of 13.99. In fact, their property was 13.99 of their portfolio, and we take it from them, and we pay them back with it. I don't know if you have any other extra explanations, but that's what your 2004 report says. In 2005, normally you don't mention it because now it's actual, you dropped and you dropped one billion debt that's long ago, and now it's turning out to be "Piva". There's no more of that, and there won't be any "Liburnia" in the next report, because she'll be eaten too, and we'll pay her to those gentlemen and we know what they're called. Gentlemen, this report, here's the club said we'd take note. I believe that a report that turned out to be one billion or rather not a word about who it is and how he stole the pensioners another billion I will personally vote against.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74116	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Kapraljevic, usually on the state of the portfolio, should be taken care of by those who own that portfolio. However, if already retired associations don't have a chance to lead across the administrative council of Pliva, I can ask myself and you, you say a billion kuna has evaporated. I want to know what the management of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is doing on the one hand, why don't they point out that such a report comes before them, what does the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute do, and finally this House that needs to be verified in the end? Obviously, no one cares, at least except us from the opposition to say clearly and loudly where the money went, and I have to admit that I totally agree with you by selling Pliva shares, paying back the pensioners, it's us from the opposition constantly and we claim they're paying back their debt, it's just a question of how much power we have to admit that it is. In the end, read the introductory part where it is said, in the opening part of the report that even a 20% contribution rate today is not enough to finance pensions that amount to about 42% of the salary. That's fortunate or better said by accident in 2005. The average pension today compared to the last salary is significantly lower. So obviously someone doesn't care to get... the money in the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and therefore the situation is as it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, if the situation were different, I am convinced that the Government, as well as the Administrative Council, and the management of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute would certainly provide information on the state of the portfolio that is in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. This is how we can whine, look, but we'll probably never win.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74118	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I completely agree with you. I pointed to this problem last year, and last year I pointed out to the 2004 PR Report that for the Privatisation Fund, it doesn't run very well with pension shares, stakes and I spoke to you to break the contract with them, put those shares back to management, don't let them steal you. However, they do not break the contract they drop out of the report and now it is not seen to be gone. Or we should be like that if we don't notice that that billion is missing. And this second part of getting their own long facts back is now going to sell "Ply," what are we going to sell next year? The next war will come. I don't know what's next to sell and whether it'll be settled at a secret session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74120	Replica, the esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74121	For me it's generally an absurd division of old and new pensioners because we have a category of pensioners or we don't have because we're going to be sharing soon I don't know by what criteria, maybe by sex, I don't know, but it's really absurd to live in a society where it pays less to get a better position, and one and the other is a poor retirement position. But absurd, it's illogical, it doesn't go into a normal man's head that what you're doing longer is making you in a worse position. It just doesn't drink water, it's something that contradicts elemental logic. And it is also against logic and it is contrary to the justice that from the property that is common, it is taken from the pension of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in fact that one part of the pensioners in a particular way is given to another part of the pensioner, taken away, and all expensive is the absurdity that generally pensioners repay themselves in two ways. Not only this way, but also in the way that their pensions, what slowed the growth of pensions, and from that difference also, instead of growing their pensions normally, that difference is the same part of which is actually paying back that debt. It all says that simply such a policy is in itself absurd and deeply, deeply unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74122	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague Jurjevic for opening this topic for me and for the old and new pensioners. If it continues at this pace in 2009, the pension will be 900 kuna for the same work, for the same number of years of internships, for the same salary, and for example for the full staff of people who retire in 2009 will receive 900 kuna. I'm surprised to see the Foreigners of the Retired, and I'm surprised to you gentlemen that you don't fight to make it any different. You should propose measures. This report should have proposed how you will cope for this billion. In this report you should have written and explained that the pensioners were to repay their debt to themselves. That's not in the report. And I can't believe we're all calming down with this situation so that one billion leaks out overnight without a word of explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74124	Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević. When you ask a colleague who pays back the debt to the pensioners, this question of which you immediately answer that he is being returned by the pensioners themselves, but it is essentially revealing another government delusion and in connection with good budget filling and good economic growth that is not 6% but is 3.5%, and it was all clear after the famous government's recommendation to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that Plive shares are transferred to the property of the pension fund in order to sell the package of 18% of the company's ownership to a good American "Barra" for a good one shake of hands, one smile, and so we re-created two categories of pensioners and one category already poor who can't live with that pension. There he is in a boon of one minor act at the expense of the other. And we're back in the '90s. Once again, the Croatian Institute serves as a self - minister from which it is derived when it is used and in order to figure out this in the sense of God’s repayment of the debt. So well on behalf of the SDP club, our colleague Vidovic apostrophysed that the decision to hand over Pliva shares by members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute was scandalous in itself and therefore I repeat when Prime Minister Sanader announced the first payment of the debt to the pensioners that there was money for the second war but it was not true. The money was credited back then. And at an emergency called meeting of the Governing Council of October 4th under the government's pressure, a disputed decision has been made. That's what exposes all this scream that a well-reputed weekly of ours calls what Podkin himself, Minister Catherine II was really babies compared to Podokin's villages of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! Well, here's a colleague I'd just like to repeat what I've already said. "Liburnia Riviera" hotels and "Piva" make up 30 and something small, over 30% of the portfolio of the institution. "Liburnia" unsettled, on the questionnaire, and on the big questionnaire and "Plyva" gone. There's something poor, little and nothing left.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74128	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office Mr. Rukavina please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! I feel obliged to answer one part of the question. Thank God I've been answering for the third time today. I will first of all answer here a part of the question that referred to improving the work of the institute and here are the questions asked by Mr. Honorable Representative Stephen Kozina, why are regressive proceedings being conducted? It's very simple. They are carried out when it comes to subscriptions, when temporary solutions are made and when it comes to the death of family pensions, it is impossible not to determine by solving the amount of pension that belongs, and ultimately, if there is a subscription, the regressive procedures must be conducted. What disputes are being brought before the Trade Court? There are disputes about this I have already pointed out for shares where shares have been sold or replaced from portfolios with other companies and that has already been a lot of speeches about it. The current value of the pension is one of the important topics related to the status of new pensioners on the expert working group set up by the government and a meeting was held yesterday. With regard to the information of the Institute, I can say that the Institute is working on a system to inform business processes. That's important. It's not necessary to inform every job, although we have a standard that we're working towards, and that's one man, one PS. It's a very high standard and at this point the office has more than 800 Internet connections. And it's really about reaching that better information standard. Part of the question referred to the urgency of the ministry. It is doubtless that if the Institute were to be a super-supervisory service, if the Institute had 100% awareness, if the Institute had made all its solutions in all the services at 100%, that modernization and re-designing of the Institute would not be necessary. However, the Institute has a problem that lasts for years and decades that it is unsupervised, but the fact is that year after year, and especially in the 2005 period, we overlooked it or did not make it more and more up-to-date thanks to our modernisation programme and the updated programme. As far as the stock is concerned, I'm not going to engage absolutely in that part of the debate that I believe belongs to a political domain, but I must say, here's the question why, that we've made the Treaty of Management, which is true, and why don't we break that contract? So for God's sake, for the third time I'm going to explain here and point out that and it was whether the Bureau was a self-server or not? If that's the way it is, we can understand it differently. The fact is that I repeat it for the third time and I believe last year at least once twice that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act under which the Institute was obliged to conclude a contract with the Privatisation Fund on the basis of those provisions. Whether it's good or not, that's another thing. I can agree with you. But the fact is that if the funds have been drained, they have leaked again through the Institute's Privatisation Fund and are used to pay off pensions. For example, during 2005, it was received on the basis of the sale and replacement of shares of 127 million. The funds won't go away, she'll come to the office. I believe that the operations of the institute in the next period will be correct under the law and that part of which was spoken about irregularities that were happening they were, that is precisely, the subject of the investigation and the State's Attorney's Office and the active and active society of HMO d.o.o. actively co-operates and delivers documentation available and continuously continues to co-operate with both the county state's attorney's office and the police, and over 200 of these companies have been processed so far. And the result will depend on the outcome of the fate of these societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74130	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm correcting the wrong quote in the part where the director is trying to explain that the office or he as a manager is not responsible for impunity, as is a common phenomenon. Mr. Director, it would be a common phenomenon if everywhere in every field service, it was about the same percentage. However, it is difficult to find an excuse that, for example, in the Koprivnica District Service, only 6% of unsolved cases and 45% in Zadar. I know the director of that branch is responsible, but you're above the principal. Therefore, Koprivnica, their service has shown that it is possible to be more up-to-date because it is a very sensitive category of people. These are the people who retired and don't have the means to live. And we now say no, we are powerless. Yes, we are. We are powerful. And if we can't bring it down to 6% and we can bring it close to 10% of your authority as director.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74132	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said if they snuck out she'd come back to the office again. That's incorrect. If the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not admitted to you that these are your shares, that they are your shares, that it is 900 million or a billion, that it is yours there is nothing to return to you. How he'll give you for something that isn't yours. They give you for these 3 billion and how much you have but they won't give you for this billion they don't admit to be yours. Well, I can't pay you back for something that isn't yours another 914 million and 571 kuna. No way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74134	Thank you. This concludes the session's morning work. The extension is at 3pm with the point Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme. It's 13,24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74135	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session and voting on the debated agenda points. Please engage to determine the quorum. I'll get you a score. There are 80 MPs and representatives present. We have a valid quorum. We're going to the vote. First, the report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2005 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 67 votes for, 7 abstentions and 15 against. With the majority of the proposed conclusion accepted. Secondly, the club of HSU representatives proposes the following conclusion. One that reads: The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to draw up a single specification of the total pension expenditure for 2005 by type of pensions and with the indication of the source from which they are alluded. The Director of the Mirovinski Institute, Mr. Rusnin, holds that the Institute can meet this conclusion and is agreed to accept this proposal for a conclusion, so I am therefore voting on this proposal. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes in favour, one abstention and one against the accepted conclusion number one has just proposed. There is also a second conclusion from the Croatian party of pensioners' club which reads: The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is obliged to provide representatives of the Croatian Parliament with an overview of the average pensions by species and years of retirement pensioners' retirement from 1 January 99th with the indicated trend in the movement of these pensions. The Head of the Bureau maintains that the deadline is too short for 30 days, proposes a 90-day deadline, 60 days. Mr. Silvano Hrelja, president of HSU's Club of Representatives, as far as I know, agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74136	Yes, I can't believe that such a powerful institution can't do it within 30 days, but in the interest of general information, I accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74137	Okay. So I'm voting that conclusion with a 60-day deadline. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimously with 92 votes in favour of the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 552; Proposer is Government. The debate was held: Committees on Legislative, Maritime, Transport and Links, Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Branko Bačić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the proposed Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme allows the Republic of Croatia, or its legal persons, to be involved in this I would say a very generous project of the European Community enabling and which practically encourages traffic in Europe to be rerouted from road transport to cheaper and more environmentally acceptable forms of transport. Otherwise, the programme itself is tracked by a European transport policy which aims to reroute traffic, reduce road congestion, improve the environmental effects of freight transport, increase intermodal transport and contribute to creating a more efficient and sustainable transport system. Afterwards, I hope that the Parliament will adopt such a Memorandum Confirmation Act, allow legal persons involved in this process of transferring burdens and traffic to cheaper and more environmentally acceptable forms of traffic to report to the competition and that clearly according to the quality of their programmes they can use funds from the Marko Polo programme, which is not small. In the next period which provides for the existence of the Marco Polo 2 programme, it is planned to allocate about EUR 3.2 billion from the European Union budget, so it is clear that all those entities are interested, for example in the Republic of Croatia port administrations, ports, forwarders, agents, Croatian railways, so all of them, inland ports, inland waterway ports, inland waterway ports, so all of those potential actors who can contribute to this process of rerouting traffic to cheaper and more environmentally acceptable forms of transport. Otherwise, the memorandum itself was signed in July, July 11th of this year and the government decided on February 29th that the Republic of Croatia would join the signing of the said memorandum. What is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia in this programme, i.e. that it pays an annual membership fee of around EUR 88 000 with our project providing that 22 000 EUR and 25% are paid from the State budget, while 75% would be paid from the FHARE pre-accession programme. In order to make it clear that we can enable our legal persons and there are also interested people to report to this project, we propose that this law be adopted by emergency procedure. Here's a very short one on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74140	Thank you. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74141	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links of the Croatian Parliament at the 52nd session held on 18 October 2006 discussed this Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme. The Committee considered this Final Proposal as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140 and accepted the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that the aim of the Law is to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding whose implementation is expected to establish the general principles, deadlines and conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme for the granting of financial assistance to the Community in order to improve the ecological efficiency of the freight transport system and that the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding was a necessary prerequisite for opening the possibility for applicants of project proposals from the Republic of Croatia in the programme in question through tenders for the application of projects prescribed by the European Commission. The Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community is a legal basis allowing the Republic of Croatia to participate in this programme, which provides for the use of financial resources ahead of the PHARE accession programme in 2006. Without a special debate, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Parliament unanimously decided and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the programme Marko Polo, in the text proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74142	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74143	Thank you very much. I mean, maybe she wouldn't answer, but there are a few reasons why I think we need to underline the importance of this Memorandum Confirmation Act. The approach to the European Union and Croatia brings more and more opportunities for the use of aid from the EU programme aimed at structural adaptation to... legal gains of the European Union in agriculture, environmental protection, transport, education and all such areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To this end, various programmes have been established: PHARE to strengthen the institutions and cohesion of future members and ISPA to comply with European Union legislation on environmental and transport protection and SAPARD for the development of agriculture and rural development. This year, Croatia can receive as much as EUR 140 million from the three programmes, or 80 million for PHARE, 35 million for ISPA and 25 million for SAPARD. These programmes should be replaced next year by a single pre-accession instrument called IPA or Instrument for... Assistence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When Croatia becomes a member of the European Union, it will be possible to use money from other structural and cohesion funds, such as in the period from 1996 to 2000, using the money from the reconstruction programme for the recovery of destroyed areas and refugee returns. It then used the CARDS programme to help Southeast European countries to build institutions and strengthen obligations and Stabilisation and Association Agreements. The national component of the CARDS was closed in 2004, and the regional component continues until the end of this year. In addition to those mentioned in Croatia are the current Community programme TMPUS, the programme of informal education of young IUS, LIFE for environmental protection, then the 6th Framework Programme for research and development and INTERACT 3 initiative or the Initiative for cross-border cooperation. They're made with an exception of 6. The Framework Programme Croatia participates as 3rd country under specific or limited parts. So, as we can see, there are a lot of development and assistance programmes in various aspects of social life, many of which have been created as a consequence of the signing of exactly the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This programme, Marco Polo, has also come out of the agreement. The priority of the programme is to reduce the share of road traffic in the Union and return it to the level of '98. A year. The growth of international transport will seek to transfer to maritime, rail and river transport or in combination with different transports where road sequences would be as short as possible. It would reduce traffic congestion and achieve better protection of the environment in freight transport. Users are members of the European Economic Area, candidate countries and countries involved in the stabilisation and accession process. The program itself is intended for companies in private and state-owned property. The programme shall finance the following areas, the activity of changing modes of transport aimed at rerouting as much freight as possible from road to rail, sea and inland waterways, catalytic activities aimed at changing the behaviour of non-road freight transport within the Union, joint educational activities aimed at improving knowledge in the field of freight transport logistics and promoting mutual cooperation. The amount of funds and funding ratios depend on the above areas, thus the funds approved under the modal activity project amount to a minimum of 500 000 euros and is financed with up to 30% of the project costs, for catalyst activities, a million and a half euros for the financing of a maximum of 35% of the total project costs, from the joint educational activity of 250 000 euros and a maximum of 50% of the project costs. The example works lastly were awarded by tenders, among other things financed by the following projects: RO ferry, daily ferry lines with 3 vessels between the port... Spain and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] France, the so-called Singer establishing a faster and reliable independent communication network in Slovenia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be pointed out that only international projects are acceptable, and they must include at least two Member States or the territory of one Member State and the candidate Member State. It should also be borne in mind that projects in the field of research, technological development and infrastructure are not acceptable. Participation in the "Marco Polo" programme has multiple advantages, from those most visible, i.e. obtaining financial assistance in decommissioning projects and increasing environmental protection measures. And there's some a little less obvious. The European Commission predicts that every euro invested in projects under the Marco Polo programme will bring at least 6 euros in social protection and environmental protection. The main objective of the programme is to reduce traffic congestion and transport hubs and to achieve better protection of the environment in freight transport in Member States, as well as to increase the share of shipping and rail transport. All these measures should also contribute to an efficient and sustainable transport system. By signing this memorandum, the Republic of Croatia has received 66,000 euros, i.e. it will have to pay 22 000 euros from the PHARE pre-accession programmes, and by implementing these projects we can really expect to promote the development of environmentally acceptable and financially profitable types of freight transport and the rounding of international freight transport. It will be an even greater success if we succeed in addition to the end of the 2006 project to receive financial assistance from an oil-expanded and even better-conceived Marco Polo 2 programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74144	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74145	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I don't think there's gonna be a problem with this memo. Marco Polo, and finally Marco Polo and Secretary of State from Korčula, so that'll work, I think, through a relationship, right. I mean, we've heard quite a lot of exposé now, so let's not say it again. The whole fund that's meant for here, that needs to be used, that can be used...... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Namely, they use to avoid traffic congestion, environmental pollution. We know that Italy, Austria, has much bigger problems, that truck traffic is already trying to transport by rail. We still have this main highway, and it's not so crowded, but it certainly needs to be taken care of. In fact, the European Community has developed the Marco Polo programme to improve the environmental efficiency of the system, transport of cargo. From the mandatory contribution here we have heard that we pay only 1/4, which is good, of 88 thousand euros even co-finance us to get into it and it should certainly be used. The funds can be used primarily for the restoration of the rolling stock. We find this particularly interesting in the railways because we need a lot more cars, dedicated cars that can actually handle the clear transport of trucks. In my view, in general, Croatia should concentrate more on waterways here. We've already got a problem long indicated, it's the Sava River problem. We expect that one day the Sava River will be watered all the way to Zagreb, and in this case we know that the transport of goods would be significantly cheaper, clearly along with the construction of the Rijeka ports, the reconstruction of Vukovar and these Danube ports, this could be very good, so it would be a pity if we didn't actually get involved here. River transport is a normal quality alternative to trucking, and we are really underused. And let's remember, in fact, that they're here and whatever we're constantly forgetting and the war's happenings, so the fleet, too, we know that well, we know how it went down where it went down, it hasn't been restored, because in fact, the river pathways haven't been even waterways for a long time. In fact, here we should certainly support the urgency of the law-making process. Because as far as I can see, the deadlines are very short, and the application for the use of money from the Marco Polo fund is conditioned by accepting actually this memo. And I can say that last week we were in Brussels where we actually had a seminar on the use of funds and I really have to commend the organizers who made it possible to hear lecturers from the countries that entered that group 10 where they told us the most about their mistakes in the hope that we would not repeat them. So I believe we've learned a lot there and we can all try to get out together, and they're warning us to get as much out of these funds as possible, because no country has ever pulled what it could get out of. Here's fellow Pero to show you how it's going, otherwise, yes. And I believe that all together, and especially the ministry must be the bearer of this whole thing, because the many companies that could use this simply skip these letters and the ministry must encourage and help to make the funds from this fund come true. Thank you. The HDZ Club will normally support the adoption of this memorandum during the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74146	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll skip... What? ... Okay, correcting an incorrect quote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74147	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague who said that this memo-confirmation law shows that Marco Polo is from Korčula. It's not because you don't write "Marko" with "k" but it's written "Marco" and we have to watch out for such things when we close international contracts, it's an important situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74148	So it's not written with "k"? ... Order! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Order to the gallery! Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Marco Polo programme. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 91 votes for, accepted the final proposed bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74151	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The 2001 International Convention on the Control of Harmful Systems Against Ships has been adopted within the framework of an international maritime organisation, so in October 2001 with the aim of removing them, it restricts the use of harmful systems used against the conversion of the ship's bottom to undesirable organisms. In fact, scientific studies have shown that these systems, paint coatings, surface treatment often contain toxic mixtures harmful to health and the environment. So like this... States, parties to the Convention to prohibit or restrict the use of harmful systems against conversion and those ships flying the flag of a particular State of the Party to this Convention and to prohibit shipping of ships to or from coastal terminals in their territory. [[You don't understand.]] The Convention shall apply to all other vessels including fixed and floating platforms, floating production landing units except warships and other public vessels used for non-commercial purposes. In addition, the Convention lists systems whose use is prohibited or whose application is limited. This list will certainly be supplemented according to the specific procedure provided for in the Convention. The Convention itself states that all ships in international navigation of more than 400 gross tonnes or if they are less than 400 gross tonnes and more than 24 metres have to bear a certificate, an international declaration of the anti-reversal system which proves that no systems have been used in the construction or use of the ship, or if they have been used to remove and neutralise them. It is clear that the Convention also provides for inspection checks in order to examine ships flying to ports of States Parties to the Convention, then the manner and procedure of the initiation of the procedure if there has been a breach of the Convention itself and clearly that it is a duty... Conventions to bring their national legislation into line in a way that, therefore, prescribes harsh measures to prevent the breach of this Convention. [[You don't understand.]] Otherwise, the Convention shall enter into force when it is signed by at least 25 countries, or if it is signed by at least 25% of the world fleet. This condition has not yet been met, and here we are proposing that this Convention be ratified by this proposal, but what is important in our 2003 Directive has called on the Member States of the European Union to ratify the Convention as quickly as possible and has prohibited that directive from breaking the anti-conversion system with harmful organic compounds on all ships that have been used by the European Union Member States since 1 July 2003 or which have entered the ports of the European Union since 1 January 2008. Therefore, with the adoption of such a law, the Republic of Croatia would complete the whole of its multilateral contracts in the process of harmonising Croatia's maritime legislation with the acquis of the European Union and establish the basis for the introduction of specific control measures and prohibitions of entry into Croatian ports by ships using those harmful systems, thus taking another significant step in further protecting the Adriatic. Otherwise, when we observe maritime traffic in the Republic of Croatia because it is very important to adopt such international conventions, then we can say that in the last five years, maritime traffic in the Republic of Croatia has increased from year to year, and over the past five years the total maritime traffic in the Republic of Croatia has been doubled. At this point, around 220 thousand ships sail to the Croatian ports annually, so it is certainly clear that the possibility of polluting the Adriatic Sea is greatly increased if we do not get close to confirming such an international convention as quickly as possible. In this regard, in order to bring our legislation into line with the legal acquis of the European Union as soon as possible and to contribute to better protection of the maritime environment of the Adriatic Sea, we propose that the Assembly adopt this proposal in an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74152	Thank you. The committees? Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 52nd session held on 18 October 2006 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Trafficking Systems from 2001, an emergency procedure. The Committee discussed the Final Proposal for a Confirmation Act as a home working body, in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative of the promoters who pointed out that the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Systems Against Ships was adopted at a diplomatic conference held within the International Maritime Organisation in October 2001 and aims to remove, or restrict the use of harmful systems used against ship conversion, since scientific studies and research have shown that the funds used in this system contain organic mixtures that have harmful effects on the marine environment and human health. By adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia is taking a significant step towards protecting and preventing pollution of the marine environment. Without discussion, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Trafficking Systems of 2001 in the text proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74154	Thank you. Right on behalf of the club, a respected representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain, on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74155	Thank you very much. Thank you. Breeding as a concept actually refers to the growth of undesirable organisms. As such, it is very harmful for materials found immersed in seawater, and it is also harmful for materials constructed, of which ships are constructed. For safe and efficient sailing, it is essential that the surface of the ship be as smooth as possible. The growth of ships has to result in a reduction in speed, an increase in fuel consumption, a loss of time and the money needed for repairs. In addition to direct costs due to an increase in fuel consumption, the deterioration and use of machinery and the cost of doping due to the cleaning of the ship's hull has been increased. For the same reason, certain systems, such as coatings or paints, are used to prevent the conversion of the ship’s bottom, but have also proved toxic and have been so harmful to the marine environment as well as human health. This Convention is intended to prevent the use of such harmful means and to encourage the use and development of new non-toxic systems for the protection of the ship's bottom in order to preserve the marine environment and water in general. The importance of water for human life is well known. Water or water molecules have special physical and chemical properties that make it a very important biological and ecological factor of the living world on our Earth. The claim that life without water on our Earth is impossible and unimaginable is just no easy phrase. But water also has a very high economic importance and its biological, ecological, and economic importance elevates and the need to protect it. However, ships are still among the main sources of sea pollution. In addition to the fact that the largest structures that are being started and made by man, the design of ships differs significantly from designing other structures for several reasons. Unlike many structures where loads are known for example from wind, snow or its own weight, they can be applied with reasonable accuracy the most critical load on the ship's structure is the influence of the sea which is practically unpredictable. An additionally important requirement for the construction to remain impermeable to the load stored inside and for the water outside, and that it has sufficient strength to withstand the pressure of precisely these substances. Both of these requirements are significantly affected by the corrosive nature of the saltwater environment in which the construction is located. All of this makes the ship's construction still quite insecure and ungrateful work, as it is never safe to predict possible pollution, and according to data on marine pollution by ships is extremely large. Because of this, it is extremely important to recognize the weight of the problem for the marine environment as toxic means of protection for ships. It is also important to take decisive and concrete measures after establishing this problem. In this direction, the Convention was signed as early as 2001. Imagine how much more would be done or more environments would be protected if the implementation of the measures provided for in this Convention started earlier. It should also be noted that non-compliance with this Convention could also have far-reaching consequences not only in the ecological but also in the economic aspect. In fact, in 2008, the European Union will prohibit the use of a system of conversion which uses organic compounds by ships entering the ports of the European Union, and as a predictary for membership in the European Union, the Republic of Croatia will have to fulfil this obligation as a condition of entry, given that the European Union has banned the use of toxic means against ship-to-ship conversion even with the 2003 Convention. We as a club will thus support this Convention on Confirmation, the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention, in order to personally express one regret that this does not apply to other types of ships and not only to the largest ships.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74156	Thank you. For the SDP club, Honored Representative Jagoda Martic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74157	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This Convention, which we are now discussing, refers primarily to systems against ship conversion, which, as an active component, contain the organic compounds of tin, most often tributyl tin. The characteristics of tributyl tin or short as TBT is called in the most recent way depict the words of Professor Goldberg, who says for TBT: "Tributyl tin is such a chemical compound that is best described from the ecological point of view by the following two superlatives. The first is that TBT is probably the most toxic compound that society has ever consciously introduced into natural waters. The second is that tributyl tin is the most effective anti-vegetative agent ever invented for installation in paints that protect the underwater surfaces of ships from accepting marine organisms." It's a finished quote. It is precisely because of this exceptional efficiency that tributyl tin has found a wide-ranging application in the colors used to coating the bottom of ships, and not only ships but also different nets and cages in farmed shells and fish and similar devices to prevent the accumulation of different marine organisms on those surfaces. However, in the 1980s, it was scientifically proven that tributyl tin causes anomalies in pebbles. Namely, it has been observed that the pebbles are given large armors and the meaty part is small. It was then started with various systematic studies that demonstrated the adverse effects of tributyl tin on marine organisms. So it's been demonstrated that TBT inhibits decomposition, development, growth, inhibits the action of cytochrome P450, as well as some other enzymes. In one word, it has been demonstrated that the use of TBT at the same time certainly destroys or damages the majority of living organisms in aquariums that do not essentially endanger vessels because they do not belong to organisms that accumulate on them, and their commercial value is invaluable. These findings have led to a partial or total ban on the use of anti-intelligence paints containing tributyl tin as an active component in many countries. France was the first country to restrict the use of anti-vegetative paints, which as an active component contain tributyl tin only on ships longer than 25 metres. In 1987, the UK followed the example of France, similar to that of Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. And in 1988, the United States allowed these colors to be used only for overseas ships. In 1989, the Commission added Directive 76-769-TEC to the European Community limiting the use of paints containing organic compounds on ships less than 25 metres and limited their application for coating nets and cages in shell and fish farms. However, ten years after these restrictions were put into effect, the content of tributyl tin and its derivatives did not significantly decrease in either natural waters or living organisms, and especially in the sediment, because it accumulated in the sediment. All this indicates the need to monitor the content of tributyl tin and its derivatives in water eco systems. In Croatia so far, nothing has been done to determine the content of tributyl tin in the Adriatic aquarium so that there are no data on the concentrations of TBT and its derivatives in both our sea, sediment and living organisms living in the Adriatic. No study has been conducted on this issue to determine the zero state because the laboratories that should carry out these analyses are not adequately equipped. The Institute of Public Health of the Split-Dalmatia County, in collaboration with the oceanographic institute in Split, set out several years ago for the realization of such a project, but the apparatus available was inadequate and the necessary sensitivity could not be achieved, and the purchase of the apparatus that would serve only for this kind of analysis was of course too expensive under the existing Croatian conditions. Not only do we not have any indicators in Croatia to determine the current situation when it comes to TBT, but Croatia has no legislation to regulate this area. In the old Nature Protection Act, there was a provision that prohibits the placing on the market and use of harmful antivegetative polymer coatings based on tributyl tin in order to preserve the biodiversity of the sea. However, in the new Nature Protection Act which came into force in June 2005, this provision was deleted and the protection of the sea was reduced to two strands of articles, so Article 52 reads: "Activities at sea and sea must not be compromised, damaged or destroyed by marine habitats."and Article 53 states: "The conservation of biodiversity must be ensured by implementing measures to preserve habitat types in a favourable state and by measures to preserve wildlife." And that's all there is to protecting the sea. For the sake of all the above, the SDP Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-Trafficking Systems from 2001 aimed at removing, or restricting the use of harmful systems used against the conversion of the ship's bottom. For the time being, these are systems containing the organic compounds of tin, mostly tributyl tin, and that list will be supplemented, where appropriate and in particular, by the special procedure referred to in the Convention. The aim is to fully remove and replace these systems with less harmful or harmless for the marine environment and human health. The Convention therefore imposes an obligation on States Parties to prohibit or restrict the use of harmful systems against conversion on ships flying their flag or under their jurisdiction, as well as ships entering the port or shipyard in the territory of the State of the Party of this Convention. The adoption of this Act confirms the International Convention on the Control of Harmful Systems against Ships and, after its entry into force, becomes part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia under the law. This does not only harmonize our legal regime for the protection of the marine environment with the acquis of the European Union, but it is much more important that the Republic of Croatia takes a significant step to protect and prevent pollution of the marine environment. In addition to the above, we believe that this Convention is important for the Republic of Croatia and for another reason. This reason is contained in Article 8(1), which reads: "The Parties to the Convention are obliged to take appropriate measures to improve and facilitate scientific and professional research on the effects of the anti-conversion system as well as the monitoring of their effects. These studies in particular include observation, measurement, sampling, evaluation and analysis of the effects of anti-intelligence systems." I talked earlier about the fact that a monitoring system has not yet been created in Croatia to determine whether tributyl citrate is polluting in the Adriatic and if there is a concentration. Such studies have so far not been made because institutions that should be involved do not have the necessary equipment for this type of examination. As a result, we believe that this provision of the Convention will encourage the competent institutions to allow once or more centres to qualify for this type of examination because without it Croatia will not be able to comply with some of the provisions of this Convention, which is primarily control and monitor the state of harmful systems against ship conversion in our aquarium. If we have in mind the importance our Adriatic has in the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia, then we understand that we must do everything to preserve it from all forms of pollution and pollution. These efforts will undoubtedly be contributed by this International Convention that we are discussing today, and therefore I repeat another SDP club this proposal will support. Just one last note, I think it's a mistake that's been subdued in Article 6(5) somewhere down the last line, and it says, "The decision that the proposal is not approved must disable the subsequent submission." I think there's a "no" behind, because I suppose that should read: "A decision not approved by the proposal must not be made impossible later.", so the proposings will make it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74158	Final review, State Secretary Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74159	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the Member of the Commission has proposed an amendment which I intended to add to Article 6(5) behind the word "no" should be added, so that without a word the whole sentence does not lose its meaning. This is therefore an observation that is clear, one change of the wording itself in Croatian because otherwise the text of the Convention is adopted by law in both English and Croatian. The second observation is that we called the declaration of the anti-refusing system in one article a declaration and the second article a declaration and then a single wording of the certificate itself. It should then also be written in Article 11 instead of declarations of a system anti-reversal system. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74160	I'm closing the debate. The final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Control of the Harmability of the Anti-Trafficking System from 2001. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please get better. The result? With 90 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74163	Thank you, Mr. President! Dear Madam MPs! Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives! The law confirms the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for the Utilisation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites and the conditions governing the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of EUMETSAT and its rights and obligations as EUMETSAT Member States. The law lays down the fundamental right and obligations of the Republic of Croatia to enter full membership of EUMETSAT in the Law on Confirmation of Cooperation Agreements between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites since 27 December 2001. By entering full EUmetsAT membership, the Republic of Croatia achieves one of the specific strategies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European integration and meets the standards of the European Union not only in the field of action of national meteorological and hydrological services but also much wider. Examples in the field of overall monitoring and warning of natural and civilizational disasters as well as systems for monitoring and preserving the natural environment. Full membership also means the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the decision-making and work of the EUmetsAT Assembly, voting rights and direct participation in the work and creation of professional and business policies of all professional and administrative bodies and organisations in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. This gives rise to the right of active and direct participation in all EUMETSAT development programmes. The special importance of full membership is the right of the involvement of Croatian economic operators in the technical maintenance and development of EUMETSAT, including the construction of meteorological satellites and the right of employment of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in any segment of the EUMETSAT organisation. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the council, these are the shortest explanations for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74164	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The rapporteur is Vice President, Honored Representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74165	Your Honor, Mr. President! Dear Mr. Secretary of State! Here, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 27th session held on 18 October 2006 the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for the Using of Meteorological Satellites on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETTSAT) and on an urgent procedure. The Committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening statement was tabled by the President of the Proposer. The debate confirmed the proposal that Croatia's current position in the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites should be improved towards full membership in that organisation including a financial commitment to accession and membership. By including in a large European system with characteristics of public service and content of important and many economic and scientific social areas, Croatia is taking another step in the field of integration into European integration movements. Thus, the confirmation of the proposed membership agreement before the expiry of the existing status of the co-operation agreement at the end of 2006 is certainly in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion: The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites and the appropriate conditions under the urgent procedure and form proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74166	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the club HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This bill seems to be standard and simply what dozens of consents to enter certain parts of European integration we have voted here. However, some details intrigued me, so I also collected data. Something and the situation isn't quite as it appears to us. First of all, it should be pointed out that accession as a full member of EUMETTSAT is not conditional on any European conventions, none of us is asking, neither of us is asking, nor does this law have the mark of European law, which is both logical and good because it is not a European law. So this has nothing to do with European integration and we can simply ignore that part of the discussion. That doesn't stand. There are reasons why the law is passed and why we need to become full members of that organisation, which is why they can tell the company because it is a profit organization, an organisation that charges its services on the market and some of the reasons are listed here. However, not all of them are mentioned. The entry agreement itself as associated members of the organisation also provides some reasons. I've got a dozen of them here that aren't listed in this material. But for everything that the Republic of Croatia did in "Eumestata" in 2002-2006, the Republic of Croatia paid 8 million 482 thousand 636 kuna. So a million and 5 grand. Yesterday on the Legislative Committee, we asked how much that sport cost? We've been told 500 thousand euros. EUR 500 000 is only an affordable membership fee that is paid once. We paid everything else, and now as associated members, we'll keep paying. By 2002 until all data, satellite data, digital and analogue already needed and which we wanted to download, we could come and pay 700 EUR access to that network and 0.1 EURO for the analogue picture, and 1 EURO for the digital picture. Now the question is, can we actually do the services that this very wise satellite network offers us, can we use? We can't. It's not technically educational. We don't have people trained to use that data properly, and we don't even have the techniques to use that data. So what was used from all of this is satellite images that appeared on weather forecasts, and they no longer appear will not even appear because now they will need to be paid significantly more as members of that organization we pay significantly more for using this material. Therefore, satellite images and participation in the advice of associated members of that body. Participation in the Council of Associated Members was the most significant result that the Director of the Hydrometeorological Institute was in France, Guyana, on the launch of one of these satellites. According to data from competent persons from the Croatian Meteorology Institute, what this money could be spent on could be much smarter, money we're going to put in to buy someone else's mind that we can't even use right now could be improved, could improve the system of our Earth meteorological cells and finally educate our people so that they can actually do something real in this Europe of knowledge and knowledge generated in Europe. If the reason is that we, the reason for accepting this agreement, are involved in the administrative bodies of this organization so that our people can get a job there, do I not see what is particularly useful for the Republic of Croatia? If there's a reason for someone to go to France on another satellite launch so it's cheaper to buy him a ticket and send him there, not sign these contracts. The Croatian People's Party club will not support these materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74168	You said you wouldn't? Okay. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Organisation for the take-up of meteorological satellites in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Convention establishing a European organisation for the exploitation of meteorological satellites and the relevant conditions. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary of the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, Draž Vikić Topić, please choose to show yourself about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74170	Dear Mr. President, we accept, we agree with the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74171	You accept. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour and four abstentions, the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74174	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the past period, has adopted regulations supplementing the normative regulation of the protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia based on the Law on the Protection of Personal Data adopted in 2003. It established the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which started and implemented the protection of personal data in accordance with this Act. However, in order to fully comply with the European Union directives, it was necessary to regulate the issue of laying down the conditions under which personal data from the Republic of Croatia can be provided and to strengthen the Agency's supervisory powers, in particular with regard to the way in which representations and branches of foreign legal entities can be authorised and to allow for the supervision and imposition of sanctions on users of the databases. This Law will also allow for the transfer of personal data from the country in three of the cases mentioned here. Not to read them. It's all "and a favorite" of the person that these data refers to. Since this text of the law is fully in line with the directives of the European Union, and as evidenced by the declaration of conformity, we ask that this Law be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74175	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system? President of the Committee, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74176	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 67th session held on 17 October 2006 discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personal Data with the final draft law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 5 October 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the decision of the Proposal for a Law, in particular those relating to compliance with the Council Directive of the European Community. After the debate, the Committee proposed, by a majority vote, 6 votes in favour and one abstention, to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74177	Thank you. The Committee on Information, Media Information? For human rights and the rights of national minorities? For European integration? I'm opening a debate. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74178	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! This Regulation shall enter The Constitution says: "Anyone guarantees the safety and sustainability of personal data, without the consent of the respondents, data can be collected, processed and used only under the terms of a certain law.". In 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted the applicable Personal Data Protection Act and here we see that the label of these amendments and the supplement goes according to the urgent procedure because the label is P.Z.E., meaning alignment with the legal gains of the European Union. But I think it's quite unserious that the government has acted in preparing this law because we don't have a score on how to implement the provisions of the applicable law. We have an agency but we don't know what it does or how it works on one side, and on the other hand every day we witness that there are various forms of privacy endangerment, personal data and everything else. The most escalating examples are so called. or hidden or other cameras that insolent employers even put in toilets, and that agency I haven't seen anywhere that came out of such cases, eclastane cases of mobbing and other cases that make it impossible for workers to have no privacy and can't even go to the bathroom so that the camera doesn't record them. And now, instead of having a report from this agency in terms of and these and such problems are getting more and more. Let's remember those two girls who were suffering from AIDS that the former Prime Minister had received them, and even their names were released to them where the same eclectic case of violation of the right to privacy. We think of various cases of what you get from marketing agencies at home, a variety of brochures, which are due to the fact that your data has come up somewhere, and many of the data, for example, is not in the phone book. So they came up with the data differently, and let's just say the agency is doing nothing. We do not have any case that we know the agency has gone into any kind of procedure, and then, when we talk about this part today, we could see whether these provisions that apply well, how many proceedings are initiated, what are the results, because we will now just say again that we have a good legal framework but on the other hand we are not doing anything or anyone else to implement in the work of the provisions of Article 37(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the provisions of this law, also means in this section, which is already normably prescribed by the law in 2003, normally that these provisions relating to strengthening the regulatory right to the protection of personal data are welcome, but it does not guarantee us because we do not now have the assurance that the agency is operating in the function of which it is established, that the agency has results, that the agency takes care of Croatian citizens that they cannot come into a situation where they are filmed by a hidden camera or a regular camera, that their right to privacy is denied, that is the same situation, or, for example, in all trade chains. In a certain way, if you come somewhere and choose clothes or something else, it also deprives the privacy that they are filming you in that part. We need to be aware that Croatian citizens are being thrown out of mobbing and all other situations where more and more of their privacy is being denied in all places, their personal data is being misused, and then we get a state secretary who normally does not know about it in terms of how the agency works. Even on the board, I asked that question and we didn't get the right results. And I think this is the way of working in the Croatian Parliament if we don't hear and evaluate the situation and if we don't see if that agency is just there for these employees, if there are no results me and we at the HSP Club haven't seen the results of that agency. Namely, the agency once appeared to us at a party in Primorska 5 because we sent letters for elections to the city of Zagreb, we took from the phone book and sent people a letter and then they came to investigate whether it was legal or not. And for these cases, it means that Croatian citizens, which guarantees the right to privacy, have no agency. How can it be said that the names of minors against whom a procedure is initiated when both the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are known, means everything is prescribed how and how it can be published. And that's where the agency's supposed to work, and we get a secretary of state who doesn't know. So we can't discuss this part at all today. It's not his fault he's defending that bill. He defends on the legal side, but when it comes to law-making, especially amendments and additions, we know what the provisions of our Rules of Procedure are and should be given an assessment of the situation. There is no assessment of the situation from the point of view of the implementation and protection of personal rights, protection of the privacy of Croatian citizens and whether these procedural provisions are related to their protection of the agency in its jurisdiction, whether they are appropriate, whether the agency is doing or not, we do not know at all what that agency is doing and why we founded it when we have the meaning of countless of these examples that I have cited when it is being violated, eclatively violates people's privacy, privacy, privacy, and I do not know what they do in that part if the government does not consider it mandatory that at least representatives from the agency come to the meetings, to explain, to see their work results. Why are we paying that agency if there's no work results? Is there a problem with the agency's leadership? I don't know what the problem is, but I do know that the problem is that no personal rights of Croatian citizens are protected and that every day more and more mobbing and other forms where privacy is struck, and I even say toilet. Here, you have countless cases of workers who are probably talking to other clubs and not just our HSP Club where in such a way, eclatively violates privacy and where employers use it and you tell it, so I don't say what they're getting into. And here we don't have an agency representative who could tell us what he's doing, if he's working at all, because I don't know if he's working at all, I don't know if any of you know about any of the procedures that this agency's running. We've only seen this case with Jadrolinia, and there's as much as I've heard it was about that X-ray thing that came to work. And the question to them was that the workers gave permission and they agreed to this form to print the finger, the apparatus recognised about coming and leaving work. So we don't know anything. So we're going to have a normative background. And as it works, is it working and how to protect all these people I've been talking about today? I have no answer. So I really don't know what this looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74179	Thank you. SDP club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74180	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, please allow a few words on behalf of our club on this proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act. Even though he's wearing a P.Z. tag. We are not convinced that he is in line with the directive, or even with the guidance. In addition, it is also written in the attachment where it is said that the draft law is partly in line with Article 26. It's a directive. But what worries us more is that if we adopted this supplement, a few very serious things would happen. First, it would happen in practice that, on the basis of a discretionary assessment, it can be processed, collected and provided data on persons from the Republic of Croatia, and the discretionary assessment should in fact confirm that there is coherence and that in such a situation the person who works has provided sufficient guarantees that they will not be abused. Secondly, as we would like to say, it seems to us that this can happen, and most likely will happen, that the forms of violations of laws that have been in practice so far related to such collection, processing and carrying out data on our citizens and that have then been misused and abused have been partly legalised, and with the other part, such data would actually be reused against those objectives that we want to achieve by law, which is the protection of human rights and freedom and, of course, the personality of every citizen and his family. Third, we seem to have to say that the law does not comply with Article 37, first of all, paragraph 1. The Constitution, but this law, if adopted, would also lead to the internal non-compliance of the law, in particular Article 13 in conjunction with Articles 7 and 8 of the applicable law. Therefore, Articles 7 and 8 of the Law are not amended, and Article 13 as you know in paragraph 2 is complemented in a way that actually opens up the possibility for this discretionary decision where appropriate personal data protection devices are said to refer to a law where, therefore, or alternatively provided adequate level of protection. And then you would add this next paragraph 2 is the new item 3 and 4 that's talking about this. What's this about? Our Constitution says very clearly, everyone is guaranteed the security and secrecy of personal data. Without the consent of the subject, personal data may be collected, processed and used only under the conditions laid down in the law. It is not a legal condition to say that it provides sufficient guarantees. The law must lay down the conditions under which, on the basis of which one who assesses, there are the conditions laid down by law which guarantee that this will not happen. These conditions are not prescribed in these amendments of the law and for this reason simply that part is not in conformity with the Constitution. Another problem that follows in itself, which is related to the internal harmonisation of the law, should be said that our legal and natural persons, in relation to the applicable law and this supplement, would be in an unequal position with respect to the legal persons and their branches that collect and process data and amount outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, Article 7 states that clear personal data should continue to be collected only with the consent of the respondents, in the case of a certain law. And now, without the consent of the respondents, personal data may be collected further, in paragraph 3 says, for the purpose of carrying out legal obligations of the Head of Collection, for the purpose of protecting the life and physical integrity of the subjects and other persons in the event that the subject is physically or legally unable to grant his consent, if the processing of the data is necessary in order to fulfil the tasks carried out in the public interest, or in the exercise of the public powers of the controller of the personal data collection and if the subject has published that data himself. Therefore, it cannot be interpreted as being among other things if the Head of the Collection provides sufficient guarantees regarding the protection of privacy and fundamental rights and the freedom of individuals. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, the three conditions of the law are laid down in Article 8 of these exceptions. That he's a member of that association, that the other side won't be revealed yet and the consent of each member. And here we're giving a side-by-side supplement so we can do it as anyone wants and as much as they want, it can practically amount to. All you have to say is an honest word he'll vouch for, provide enough guarantees. And that, without any legal criteria involved, will be determined by the agency. The question now arises, and on what basis will the agency, on what terms will the agency actually determine that it happened? In this respect, Article 13 of the existing law, if it were to be supplemented as proposed by the new paragraphs 3 and 4 and amended paragraph 2, it would practically be contrary to Article 7 and 8. And Articles 7 and 8 are discussed by the Constitution of the guaranteed right to collect, process and security the confidentiality of each citizen's personal data. From all of this, it is clear that this is not a question that can be easily left out. This is a matter of constitutional and legal nature. This is a matter of protection of fundamental rights and freedom of man and citizen and in this respect should be taken into account. The third thing is, which should also be pointed out, it is very clear, it is very clear in the directive, and I repeat, in particular, that in relation to Article 26 relating to Article 25(2), with Article 2(2) calling for non-binding guidelines, it says that it is partially in line with Article 2(4). Draft draft law on additions to the law. It is therefore not in line with this either, and at the same time, in a very large part of what is guaranteed by the Constitution, the right is significantly violated. Of course, the proposer himself says that the law further does not provide for those exceptions whose application did not show the need for practice during the application will show the need for complements. I would like to remind you that last week or last week, now I don't know exactly what day it was, we had a debate on an international agreement between our secret services and the European Union, their bodies, about the exchange of personal intelligence data, that's our citizens' data. What is now if none of the conditions laid down in Articles 7 and 8. The personal data law is rather than a matter, and at the request of these intelligence services of the European Union, or their bodies, it is the fact that the Head of the Collection provides sufficient guarantees that all these rights are guaranteed and has requested the exchange of all that information about our citizens in such a situation is quite clear that this may be an additional problem. Of course it's from this security aspect, but that means that they can actually be questioned then and all citizens regardless of their functions. The other question opens up far more important. A whole range of services and products on the market that are sold or exchanged or delivered on the market clearly states the possibility of collecting data not only on customers but also on sellers and business partners and people who are... I'm not talking about the work and action of, for example, associations. [[You don't understand.]] I would like to remind myself that in the territory of the Republic of Croatia it seems to me to be more than 24 thousand associations and each of these associations, and the one that has a foreign... is either a branch of a foreign association or is founded as an association in the Republic of Croatia and works for a foreign donor, etc. not to say anything else, it has the right to, on the basis of such amendments and the addition of the law, collect such data and, at the same time, provide only a guarantee to the Agency that, in an appropriate manner, it will provide sufficient guarantees in relation to the protection of privacy or/and fundamental rights and individual freedoms. The first question is whether each of these associations will know what fundamental rights and freedoms are about individuals at all, because what it is, what it is. It is that this refers to those among other things, foreign legal entities which do not, among other things, have a law that regulates it as a question. Be careful how far they've come that they haven't even protected their own citizens about it, but they'll have the right to collect all the data about our citizens. I think that in this situation it is quite clear, in fact, that an emergency procedure should be removed from this law or delay the vote on this law until the motion once again examines this provision of Article 2 of the Act from the aspect and its compliance and the system of law, and in particular from the aspect of the protection of privacy and disability and individuality of each individual, but also the privacy of our families on the one hand and, on the other hand, at the end of the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, since this generally applies to all citizens, all citizens independently of this. It is of course necessary to see one more thing where there is further expansion of the space for this discretionary assessment, and then it is related to this paragraph 3. subparagraph 3 of the last sentence which, beyond the decimal point, states: which the Personal Data Protection Agency finds appropriate in accordance with the applicable rules governing the protection of personal data. Now what regulations? It's a little letter. So it means all the regulations. And in such a situation suddenly something that is not the law, which is not an international contract, can receive a primate in relation to a contract that and a law that applies in Croatia. For example, this Directive or even more, this Guideline, because it is also a regulation which does not oblige it, but the Agency can interpret this call for this amendment to the law, can in fact put aside Article 7 and Article 8 of the applicable law. Because of all this, we feel that it would be good to reevaluate that part once more. We have no objection to allow adequate cooperation and business relations in all forms between associations and legal persons in the exchange of data, data collection, but a minimum which should at least be granted to respondents in such a situation that his data is collected and wishes to be exported from outside the country. Watch out these are data that will be presented without the knowledge of the citizen, without his consent, and at the same time he will be in a subordinate position compared to the one who collects and processes the data because it is actually the employer who will give him the job in one way or another. We therefore believe that we should be a little bit more pirated in the cold compared to this situation so that we do not bring ourselves into a situation today-to-morrow that can be unpleasant not only from a constitutional aspect but above all from the aspect of the protection of the national civil interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. For this reason, we propose to postpone the vote on this law for a while while the motioner reviews the proposed provisions before the vote, and if that does not happen we will not be able to support this, we will be restrained about this text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74181	Thank you. For the club HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do you want the secretary of state? State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74182	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Very short. Namely, the distinguished representative Kovacevic would like to see the agency here. That's possible. He has the right under the Law on the right to access information, which is also a very important law that this government has implemented, to ensure that it is implemented. You have the right to ask the Agency what it does if you do not understand what it is, to ask for information, and in addition, the Agency is obliged to submit a report to the Assembly on its work and on technical issues very closely if you ask the Agency, because here we are talking about a law governing this important matter. The proposer of the law is the Government. On behalf of the Government, the Central State Administration Office, which made the first text of the law, that is, as part of the Ministry of Justice, the administration and local self-government, and I believe and we have the knowledge that the Agency is doing its job, that it has started, that it is teamed. That there are valuable people and that the law on the protection of personal data applies to the greatest extent. Maybe our citizens don't even know who they're supposed to talk to, and maybe this is an opportunity to invite them to, if they think they're injured in their rights so they can seek the protection of the Personal Data Protection Agency. As regards the non-compliance of the proposed article, amendments and additions to Article 13, I must say that is not the case. Article 7 discusses the reasons for the collection and who can collect data, in Article 8 on processing, and this article discusses how and under what conditions they can be carried out outside. The Directive is wider than we have built into the circumstances in this law, and it allows for wider possibilities for data to be exported to countries which do not guarantee the protection of personal data because of this and in business processing, we have stated that it is not fully harmonised or that it is partly in line with Article 26 of the Directive, because we did not want to risk our data, we did not want to go below what this law provides, which is to provide guarantees regarding the protection of personal data which will be assessed by the agency that we are convinced is qualified to do this job. In addition, the agency’s experts joined us in drawing up draft draft laws. Mr President, we ask that this law be passed because this law is presented in the negotiations in the screening of Croatian legislation and we have informed our partners in the European Union that the government has passed the law and in what text it has adopted it, experts are still in Brussels and I believe that European Union experts will agree that the law is in line with the directives and that there is no need for additional legislation in this field. Here, if there are any amendments, we'll consider them at the vote. We suggest that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74183	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74184	It could be understood from Mr. Secretary of State that, I spoke on behalf of the club if this text did not comply with the directive and which is spoken of, which is not true. We have warned that it is not fully harmonised, but we have talked about it, Mr Secretary of State, we have talked about the non-compliance of Article 7 and Article 8 with Article 13 of the supplement, which is proposed to supplement this law. Article 7 and Article 8 shall refer to the processing of personal data and the processing of specific categories of personal data, and one and the other to all legal entities that will collect and process and the data independently of legal or natural persons, and in this respect only the data collected and processed may be derived from the country in accordance with Article 13. You have now given a new Article 13 a new criterion, a new condition which, in practice, Articles 7 and 8 as an option, as an exception, does not provide for and therefore does not comply with the applicable law and therefore needs to be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74185	I'm closing the debate. Final draft law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 74 votes for, 6 abstentions, 14 against, a proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74188	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, here's a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Bill. On July 13th, this year, the Croatian Parliament voted in favour of the majority of the votes of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, and the law came into force on August 3rd of this year. Within these two, two and a half months, we have clearly seen that there are certain practical problems in implementing individual solutions, and that is precisely what we are proposing certain changes that are of a very practical nature and I want to make it clear that we have a full consensus on them of all social partners, meaning both trade unions and employers, but also a large number of civil society, so many associations where some of the associations are I have to admit and warn us about certain practical shortcomings. So let me briefly give you a few of the most important segments. When we talk about pregnant women who are sick due to complications related to pregnancy or childbirth, right now legislative solutions require that compensation be paid during that sick leave on the burden of the Institute's assets from the first day, but that practically pay the same salary to be carried out by a natural or legal person, so the employer, and within 45 days the Institute must refund it. A number of associations and civil society have warned us, and we have several reports that this kind of system could potentially and also opened the way to certain manipulations, and that is why we propose an amendment to which the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance from the first day will directly make up for the salary, means compensation during the period of the sick period directly to the pregnant woman, or birth, which is practically on sick leave. However, what is important is that we have also tried to change existing solutions related to the temporary inability to work. In fact, it's about one thing, so I'm going to tell you a multi-year problem that hasn't been accepted enough, and I have to admit a few of the cases we've had in these two months have moved us in that direction and into thinking. Namely, what happens to people who go to sick leave, and that it's a company of some kind means a company that's not liquid. Not only is such a man sick but he actually doesn't get any compensation, because the company itself or the company itself has nothing to pay him. That's why we're bringing here a proposal that if at least in three calendar months some company isn't so liquid, and if we have a person who's therefore incompetent to work there means she's gone to sick leave to practically the Bureau to cover the payment. So, the Institute immediately from day one covers the costs of temporary incompetence to work. What I also think about, so I'm going to say by the logical proposal that we got from a large number of associations, but first of all, it's actually mothers of children who are suffering from malignant tumors, and that's what we've included in the National Population Policy as one of our specifics, is actually the collapse of unnecessary administrative barriers. What exactly is this about? Consider, for example, a sick child who suffers from a particular serious illness. A parent takes a child, very often leaving his place of residence, a residence in some large center where the child is being treated. The limited number of days we had for a child up to seven years, up to 12 working days or over seven years for six working days, allowed only such a short period of time. What happened then? Parents had to return to their place of residence, or stay with the same doctor, a special commission was formed that was once again and for several days, and a decision was then made on the practical extension of that illness. So by the research we've done, we've clearly seen that there was virtually no negative solution. So, always all these demands were justified and the question of why, in fact, have such an administrative barrier. And that is why we suggest that for a child up to 7 years of age, therefore the compensation is paid during so long as he or she is sick for the sake of him or the child extends from 6 to 20 working days, excuse the child for up to 7 years of age, so for up to 40 days, or for children who are more than 7 years of age, instead of 6 working days to 20 working days. And another thing that also in this implementation has proved to be actually missing and it is I must admit the problem that... also since '93. the year he was actually solved then actually that system was abolished in 2000, and that's what happens to an insurance company that goes to the disability assessment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, from the finality of the disability solution to the power of the solution, one space was created in which the user did not receive any compensation, and de facto we are from the person who made a certain income, who, by all universes, would have the right to a certain payment, for a certain amount, we actually created a social case. And here we propose that during this period, which took five very often, six months, we propose that from the period of finality to the power of the disability solution, the insurance company is directly obtained from the Croatian Health Insurance Office 50% salary. Here are actually some of the most significant provisions that we are practically proposing in the amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, and here I truly believe that we will, in fact, support this proposal as much as I repeat and social partners, but also a complete civil society that has given a good part of these initiatives here stands firmly behind these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74189	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Committee President, Honored Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74190	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 61st session of the Committee held on 18 October 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 28 September 2006. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In a brief discussion, the Committee supported the proposed amendments and additions primarily because it is about proposing a greater scope of law for certain categories of insurance undertakings. In this way, these changes will allow users of the funds to exercise their right to pay in due course and in time. In view of the need for the prior creation of quality and information integration of the data of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance with the records of unemployed persons of the Croatian Employment Service and the current indeterminateness of this system, the members of the Committee maintain a legitimate provision for the status of insurance company for compulsory health insurance to be obtained on the basis of their application to the Croatian Health Insurance Office without registration in the register of the Croatian Employment Office. The provision that the Croatian Health Insurance Office will pay the compensation to the insurance undertaking in the event where the employer is unable to do so due to the fact that the insolvency of at least three months is significantly improved by the existing system is the opinion of the members of the Committee. The right of the insurance company should not be conditioned by the possibility of its employer to pay him the salary he is required to pay under the law. After the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74191	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74192	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. A commendable move by the government after those laws we've been talking so loudly about and for a long time where the rights of the insurance company have been cut down, reduced, brought to the level of the announced possibilities, and now the rights are getting a little bit wider. What's with the squawk? Well, that squawk serves, of course, to provide political satisfaction before the third election. If that wasn't the case then what we have here today, of course, could have happened two months ago, or three times when we last talked about it. But that toothpick doesn't go quite evenly. She goes down significantly, then she comes back a little bit worse, you know, it's like someone's taking your $100 tax, and then 10 kuna back, then you're very happy when you get 10 kunas you didn't count on, and they actually took 90 kunas from you. This situation is also happening with this Law. But the fee paid by the Bureau, so that you are explicit in the law of the office is declared a duty insurance company is a logical thing. The insurance company does not contract insurance with its employer, but with the office. So who else should pay him than the Bureau? It's bad that in all other places, the thing isn't regulated, so the insurance company gets money directly from the office because he signed a contract with the Bureau, signs a contract and pays the Institute his contribution, so the logic of things would say that when he finds himself in such a situation that he needs help to get him an office and pay for what he has to pay for the contract. Prolonged care leave is an imminent step, Mr. Minister himself said that all cases when an extension was requested were approved, and they were approved because they were justified and there is actually no big reason to avoid longer periods of sick leave for the person in the family. No one or I'm convinced almost no one abuses that right. A similar situation with people with disabilities during the work of the commission that has been working for a long time to recognise disability. People were really in a terrible situation that for months some and a year say they get nothing while waiting for a solution to their case, wages are gone, disability pensions are still missing, they are nowhere and they are practically becoming social cases and it is quite evident that this money will one day be approved and paid for them. Now a good solution or a less bad solution is proposed, however you will but in any case solutions that these people do not have to go to the soup kitchen but the one they paid for their whole life sort of takes care of that period until they get the status of the disabled. And another thing that's well done in law. Insurance status acquisitions have been simplified, no more of those intense registrations in two, three places, so if a man is going to apply here, he wants to apply there at the Employment Service, the Fund, one application is enough for a man to gain his status. Now, one thing I asked on the Legislative Committee yesterday. There's no opinion from the social partners anywhere. These laws are usually followed by the opinions of the social partners. There isn't one here, so I asked if it was a mistake or what was going on? Ma'am, I think it was the secretary of state, but I'm not sure, she said it was on the economic social council. This morning I asked the unions that were supposed to be, who were at that session of the Economic Social Council, there really was an economic social council before the government's meeting, but this point was taken down and this point was not discussed by the Economic Social Council. I'm not sure if we have the right to discuss a legal proposal that deals with this topic without the government's social partners saying so. I suppose we would have objections because these are definitely not all amendments and additions to this law that need to be passed, and I am convinced that there will be very soon new amendments and additions to the law. For example, just as we have instructed, the Croatian People's Party Club has referred to the procedure of amendments that I have to admit in a very business way, because it concerns an article which these amendments and supplements do not process but is still a bit of a crazy situation. In Article 25, when speaking of which receipts should not be included in the asset censorship for people to be free of participation, the word "no" in the text of the law is not. So now the text of the law reads about: those incomes that are included in the total incomes of citizens are included in the sick and I don't know all the other incomes that should actually be excluded. So I guess that's a mistake, and I'm asking the Proposer that if he can't accept our amendment for procedural reasons, he'll look at the article 25 and see that the error is corrected. One more thing he doesn't have. If Mr. Minister remembers, he recently participated in a TV show where one viewer asked him a question. The situation is this, two parents have two adults, adult children who are unemployed and registered on the labour market, these children freed from participations, parents care about them and, of course, support them because they are unemployed, they are in a joint household and parents are not released from participation because their incomes are not divided into four, but only on them because these two children are adult. One absurd situation that could be accepted by very simple law intervention or perhaps in the interpretation of the law. All that makes up the essence of the amendments and the addition of this law suddenly after all the summer break is an increase in the rights of users and such an increase in rights I think we will all support but I still worry why the social partners didn't have a chance to say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74193	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74194	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative incorrectly stated the next sentence in the law we recently passed. Insurance rights were shrinking. It's simply not true as long as you and your party try to prove it. According to the new law, insurance companies received much more financial security, which is absolutely the most important. They got the most expensive list of medicines free of charge in Europe, they got free preventive checks based on that law, they got a shortening waiting list of the right to review the privateer, etc. So this is not the opposite... passed in laws some kind of twist as you say. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a continuation of the socially sensitive policy of our Ministry of Health and I thank them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74195	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74196	Thank you, Mr. President! ... The two corrections of the false quote need to be corrected, that it may be righted by your two conjectures who are guilty. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] One is that this is a pre-election sticker because if we were waiting for it then we'd go with this and we wouldn't go in seven months with the law and now we're changing it. So we simply see or the government sees that it would be better and correct or make this law even better. And the other thing you said was that this wasn't on the economic social council and we don't have the opinion of the economic social council. That's incorrect. This morning on the Committee on Health, a union representative, or a man who is in front of the Economic Social Council, said he supported the economic social council's support for this proposal and that they considered it. Here, thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74197	For the SDP club, the Honorable Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74198	Mr. President! Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The SDP's club will, of course, support this amendment and the addition of the law, but we must say that we are not looking forward to such a legislative policy and practice as we have. This is not a good situation in the legislative policy for the simple reason it cannot happen and it must not happen that from the previous session of the Parliament at which we have passed the law we are now changing and supplementing this same law at a new session. Look, this law was passed at the 21st session, this is the 22nd session that we are changing by calling on that law that practice has shown that certain solutions are not good in that law and that it should be changed and that practice takes a month and a half days. Therefore, obviously something is wrong and obviously, we must finally say that, in fact, one part of us as a Parliament are in a very awkward situation where lawmakers insist that this is the best possible solution and that, in fact, some of the views in the Assembly are spoken independently now whether it is from opposition or positions are not respected by defending their draft law firmly and when the law takes effect that it is changing quickly. And this is the most recent example because, in fact, there was a change of law from session to session. The second thing I want to warn you about. This practice shows that it is not good to reject all proposals and amendments of nature that are made on the drafts of the law just because someone from the opposition gave it or because someone who did not agree with the applicant at the same time did. It is not good because it is shown that on the most sensitive actually social issues and relationships in which we appear and the laws that regulate afterwards change and supplement that same law. No matter what my colleagues say but the proposer himself writes in the light of this law among other things, I quote: "In order to protect insurance companies that are temporarily incapable of working on that basis and to enable them to exercise their right to pay in due time which, according to the provisions of the law, burdens the assets of the institution from the first day of use, the necessary need to amend Article 33 of the applicable law in a way that restores the solution from the earlier applicable Health Insurance Act" etc. So, colleagues, we passed the law in the seventh month, changed the solution in the old law, so that now, from the old law that was more socially sensitive, we would like to put back in order to actually achieve the goals that we would like to achieve between the rest and the population policy, etc. Now, you know, it seems that the promoter didn't really know what he wanted, but I'm not sure he knows what he wanted to do now, because he doesn't include all the changes and additions that his colleague Vuljanic is on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club but has already pointed out that are also opening. Thirdly, it is obvious that these changes and additions are actually an attempt from a social aspect to further strengthen the social dimension and try to resolve some of the rights that belong to insurance companies in a better way, so if you want and in a way that actually takes more care of their social status, the social opportunities of our insurance companies, their households and family members. The example works, only the compensation paid during the sick period if the disease is now up to twenty working days, and six days ago it was for children up to seven years of age at forty instead of twelve working days it is quite clear that this is a very important and sensitive issue. But what is also important to mention is the question why in the Parliament we representatives of the Croatian Parliament were so naughty, so socially insensitive when there was money, there is the possibility that we voted in the last session and now it has to change. I'm talking again, not getting into who the party belongs to. I will not even enter into those criticisms and observations that the ruling party and coalition have experienced at the time of the law and after that on the issue of social insensibility, not from the opposition, from citizens, who have the opportunity to listen to regular emissions concerning the issue of the protection of pensioners, the protection of the health of our insurance companies, etc. on the radio, on television, and he knows what they're talking about. I don't think it's good, and that's why this thing needs to be clearly and openly pointed out. Fourthly, we from the opposition, of course by nature, are things as opposition, warning of a whole series of negative situations, among other things, with the goal of removing them and removing the ruling coalition in time and correcting things. One of them is financial indiscipline and problems related to financial indiscipline and health insurance problems that have resulted in the very issue of a bit of dubiosis and financial discipline. And of course we now support the reduction of all payment and settlement deadlines, but there remains a question hanging in the air, what about claims against legal persons when the Republic of Croatia assumes a payment obligation. In this context, of course, we will support this issue when it comes to amending and supplementing the 41st issue of disability. However, we would like to warn that, in addition to this paragraph, paragraph 41, which is amended and complemented, there is also an item 4 which states that the insurance undertaking has the right to pay compensation to the institution's assets for a maximum period of up to 12 months of uninterrupted sick leave, unless the stay is extended for the reasons set out in paragraph 2 of this Article and that is, among other things, the assessment of the remaining working capacity and disability. Now, the question arises as to what happens when a pension disability institution assesses disability but has not assessed that disability is such that it should go to the end of the disability in the disability pension but rather about the reduced working ability due to redistribution to other jobs and work tasks we will pay the salary to the institution and there is no question of whether or not the person is at all sick or not, as paragraph 4. has overestimated the applicable law. That's number one. And number two, the question arises, and what about the advances that, in such cases, when the pension and the disability pension titles are brought by the pension institution regardless of which he did not enter before... the rightful solution it determines the advance of the pension it is temporarily receiving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If he didn't set up an advance, it means he didn't actually... from the point of view of disability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first problem. And the other problem that opens up is the question on which he pays, this is where he writes the wages, but it's not about what height he pays and what 50% he pays. Is this person's job, insurance or the average salary of the Republic of Croatia? This depends not only on this law but on the length of his stay. Thus, in such a situation, we feel that this change that has a good goal is not fully worked out. It should actually be taken into account that, perhaps, a few more articles of the law should be passed and arranged to simply agree on things to the end. One more thing. Payment fee due to temporary inability to work insurance actually is sick, but also due to indifference if it is not able to do so legal person of at least three calendar months. What does it mean if there are legal persons in Croatia who no longer, at least 3 months longer, pay salaries? If I remember correctly, I'm speaking in my mind, I didn't check out the bankruptcy bill, I think it's about 60 days. What exactly are we doing here? We're not just going in favour of the insurance company to get such a guaranteed salary, but we're actually re-enhancing financial indiscipline. Here, it would be logical for me to add another requirement for such payment from the title of unpaid salaries to workers who did not subsidise companies to have priority in the Commercial Court and to seek amendments to the Bank’s bankruptcy law. Yes, but this is not resolved, so this requires changes and some other regulations that we enter into in such a situation, etc. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a situation, as I was at a meeting yesterday, at a meeting not of some kind, very serious, very sensitive meeting where, among other things, a representative of the Croatian government told us here we are leading the outcome of a single company, among other things, we have secured a minimum wage and we pay for it but we do not pay for health and pension insurance. Well, for God's sake, if the government is doing this, if we're now passing a law saying that a company and legal persons who won't pay the workers' salary for three months will pay off then the Health Insurance Office, it's a burden on the Health Insurance Office. So what are we doing? In fact, we are deepening the issue of financial indiscipline and the problems that are in that part... We have to, we should discuss something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I expect all the time when we'll sit here and argue that someone won't be able to pay their salaries as a legal person if he hasn't made sure to pay for retirement, health insurance, etc. the contributions necessary for joint activities. So this is, these are very serious questions that we, as a club, want to warn about these changes. Why, especially now? Because we are sure that these amendments and amendments to the law are the introduction of a series of amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Not only from the social title, not only from the title of financial discipline, but also from the titles related to issues that will be related to the position of disabled people, insurance companies. Then, this is a question that will be related to the position of those who can free themselves from participation, including the question of more proper interpretation and the regulation of what it is common to the household, and whether members of the joint household who maintain adulthood have, among other things, the right to be freed from participation related to what they have to share with them, and not only with the title of clean formalities in which you are said to be, for example, father and mother will have some incomes they will be freed if they do not go through so much and so much, i.e. cross so much and so much. But if they're children, they won't count because they're minor, and yet they're actually supporting them, etc., etc. Therefore, these are questions that will certainly be opened that will ask for an additional question, as will be opened regardless of the question that we have something, the most favourable relationship between generic and indigenous double-listed medicines. Perhaps in a situation like this, but still the question will be raised whether some medicines can, especially when the list of double, generic, can and should be entered on that list that is original. Why? We keep in mind that our insurance companies are users of medical services, especially those of older age, pensioners who are otherwise in a difficult social situation, will not have funds for certain types of medicines, pay. And besides, there are already discussions in medical circles about some types of drugs that do not have a proper generic substitution and are not listed on the regular list. Therefore, we will be quite certain, I am talking here about this issue as a layman, speaking what I have listened to and followed as comments, for example on Croatian Radio which, a regular show that can be heard at 9 o'clock etc., etc. the appropriate day when it is transmitted. That's how it's gonna go. We must be aware of this, as we must also be aware of the relationship between the supplementary insurance and the participation that has been introduced with us. We're going to settle these issues, and I don't think that extra insurance is necessary, so we need to delete it. However, it should be left behind, but it will need to further specify which rights, obligations and responsibilities the insurance company from that title may have additionally, what the Institute, or the State, must provide. We look forward to this question that it has finally matured definitely awareness regarding the amendment of Article 5 that practically in the Republic of Croatia all persons who have registered residence or have a work permit must be health insurance and that there is no need to apply to the Employment Office, etc. That's what we talked about when the law was passed. Just sign up for the Health Insurance Department. Health insurance is automatically acquired and, of course, the one who will be employed becomes an obligation to pay for a health contribution according to this law and, of course, to all other regulations in the Republic of Croatia. So what we're saying is that this shift that with this amendment and supplement has been achieved we're going to support it. We warn of some of the solutions that are offered here that will cause problems with law enforcement and enforcement, but they are better than they were before, so we support them. And we are warning of the need for further amendments and additions to the existing law, because that question, these issues are not fully resolved. Among other things, because of the speed applied to the arrival at the 7th month of this year. And the last thing we want to say is, it is not good to explain in the reasoning of the law by emergency procedure why a obligation is needed, or to give reasons why the law can enter into force prior to lactation, prescribed by the Constitution of the prescribed minimum lacacia legislation. This should be a specific item, a specific point in the reasoning of the law and the very provisions of the article, for example in this particular case 8 as ordered by the Constitution. But it's better than nothing. And in this regard, praise to the promoter, for the first time recently it has been explained in a quality way which is why early entry into force is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74199	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74200	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like to correct Mr. Arlovic's false claim that it was a big grudge and a mistake that this law was passed in July, and now he's correcting himself. If there's anything to the benefit of the needy man, then there's no mistake. By the way, I'll mention that there have been constitutional changes in this assembly from the session to the session. And besides, if it were a mistake, even sin is said to be human to sin, but the devil is to endure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74201	For PGS, SBH, MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74202	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, allow me, once from this pay phone as a representative and as a doctor, to express my satisfaction that I can discuss a bill that I support and personally as a representative and a doctor, and I can also do so on behalf of the regional party club. Regardless of this support given the character of the debate, we have decided to say a few principles. I would first of all repeat one thing that I have said many times in this assembly. The time has come for the Croatian Parliament to really consider the question of how many times a law can be changed by amendments and additions, and I once, I think, made a joke last week, I don't think it's a good idea for that number to be too large and as absurd as it seems, it is now showing. The fact is that we discussed a lot of things that are proposed and supported by Mr. Ministers in the previous debate on a package of health laws, and then in the first and second readings in a package of health laws. There have been many amendments that have, in a similar way or in a slightly different way, solved from the area, there have been others who have not been respected. Perhaps what Mr. Arlovic said as an observation, I mean the principle nature of the remark that we are changing the law from session to session, may actually be a sign of something good, which is that we are moving and the speed of understanding that we have to edit things differently than we are in some times backwards. According to this rhetoric, we can talk about when and where certain insurance rights are lost. Whether they are reduced specifically in one way or another, but the fact that they are increasing with these changes and additions. The range is increasing, which means that once that range is reduced. I just want to remind you that in the process of reducing the scope many times we spoke out of positions that we were against these reductions. I wouldn't bring that into line with the daily political needs. I personally think that Croatian society has kept within itself enough social thread to know and that in the years to come we will defend ourselves from becoming an unsocial society and I think that we will preserve the character of the Croatian state as a social state, and that then the area of health care is very important. All that is proposed here is absolutely to welcome and accept from the changes in the treatment-based pregnancy to the over-paying salary for the sick person's escort. This about children has nothing to comment on, it's also for support and care of spouses. The question that improves the period in which a disabled person waits for a final solution is absolutely to support as well as this simplification of the way in which insurance status is acquired. So we as a regional party club support this, but we'd like to say one thing in the end. We'd like to do it again to Mr. Secretary. It would be good if the health resort in this country obtained the right to open a fundamental issue and which, if opened, could lead to solving the causes that generate problems in Croatian health, which is primarily its indifference. It's a matter of systematic health funding. I will again say that I personally believe that neither the International Monetary Fund nor its representative in Zagreb, Mr., now of a Greek last name, can go out in Croatian media with the claim that Croatian health care must spend any more than it does now. This is not his question with all respect to both the gentleman and probably his knowledge of the Croatian balance sheet and public spending, including health care. That's what we have to decide. I think that the development of the Croatian economy will allow for the next years that we can systematically increase the isolation for Croatian health care, that we can resolve the annual chronic indifference of 2 billion and that we can pass laws that will be on the trail of health care as we have always had, because Croatian healthcare has been in continuity for over 100 years in the continuity of the work of the Croatian Medical Assembly can be proud of its level and I think that we are able and secure it. I don't see that these two billion should be such a big problem and that they can be an object instrumentalised in Croatia's relations with international monetary institutions. There is so much, only on the occasion of the topic of health law that we support, although we are convinced that there are other things in the Mandatory Health Insurance Act that will need to be corrected, and there will be in the Supplemental Health Insurance Act because I think Croatian citizens are interested in when these additional insurance policies will appear, you, Mr. Minister, must think of it as something that the Croatian public will soon ask you. We must offer a model for Croatian insurance companies to have additional policies, and under these conditions which are now laid down by law, I am not sure that the insurance company will have an interest. Therefore, there will be changes and additions if they are good and we will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74203	Thank you. For the HSS club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74204	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, it is truly unusual for us to bring amendments and additions to the law to two meetings of the Croatian Parliament. I've always been and my club's always been about to make changes and additions laws whenever there's a need for it when practice shows that existing solutions are not good. Practice forced us to find better solutions and there would be no objections in that part. However, because of what is being addressed today by this proposal, we have pointed to this proposal as being deficient both in amending and supplementing the laws that we discussed and which we brought in half of the 7 months ago, that is, three months ago. So this is one lesson to us that in the things that we regulate for the sake of general good in the interests of our citizens, we should not be so stubborn and be convinced that our solutions are best and that these solutions should not be corrected. We pointed out the shortcomings, the amendment was proposed, but the promoter did not want to hear it and did not want to listen. So in this part of the maternity care, in the case of pregnancy-preservation, the employer pays the employer back, but the employer points out the request to the institution, the institution is obliged to refund it within 30 days, and the institution directly then if the employer is not able to pay the salary of three calendar months for reasons of indifference. This paragraph of Article 2 of the amendment and addition seems unclear to us. You can't see who's giving the request here, when he's giving the request and when he's actually going to get it. We are now asking whether there is a question, so we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support these amendments and additions, the minister once again says that the proposal is supported by all the social partners, Mr Minister, but you told us the same thing in the 7 month amendment and addition of the law, that the bill was supported by all the social partners and that now, after a month and a half, it would show that there are better solutions, please do not tell us now that there is the consent of all the social partners, and in a month we will determine that there is a better solution. So I'm looking at this rule of law as a lawyer. I'm looking at her in the context of a woman who's employed, because she can only be a woman when she's pregnant. And no one else. When we discussed gender equality, then we noticed that a woman was discriminated especially in the field of work, that she was having a hard time getting to work, that she was exposed to questions about whether she was married, how old she was, whether she was in a different state and whether she was going to be in a different state. Among other things, this is exactly what the employer has to pay for the complications of pregnancy and this and that, the employer neglects that after 30 days, the employer will receive a refund on maternity benefits, it is alleged to argue that this payment is not regular and that is one of the reasons why the woman is unequal in the labour market. And if we want to look at this provision of the law in the context of this policy's efforts to eliminate discrimination against women in the field of work, then perhaps it would be better if we had said in this article that the compensation for the sick during the stay pays directly to the Institute. And to regulate how it works. And then we do not depend upon the will of the employer to pay for it, when he will pay it, so whether it will be inexplicable, it will not be inextricable, so whoever submits the request will not submit. Time passes, Mr. Minister. And if we want to protect the woman, if we want to remove part of the reason why the employer doesn't want the woman in the workplace, there's no reason why we wouldn't install it here, that the Institute is carrying those costs, the Institute is paying off, we've shut down the employer, we've cut down, we've cut down the administrative path and we've done a lot better. So, in addition to these ambiguities that we have pointed out, we have said and this proposal that we think would be much better, we think it would also be in the function of realising the most intelligent policy that Croatia is declaring and that should be thought about. About disability. I would say in one sentence – thank God that after two months and there we accepted the remarks of both my club and the opposition party club. We were just pointing out that the worker for whom the disability procedure has been launched for months, I've cartooned, I said, and cases have been reported that the finding of disability has lasted for years, that it will be without any income. That's not allowed. At that time and at that time, we did not agree with our views, we did not listen to what we pointed out, but here in this proposal we have little improvement, not an ideal solution, which could be an ideal solution to the presentation of colleagues Arlovic, but in any case a small positive shift is Mr. Minister, we hope you will accept this thinking, that in this direction you will seek solutions in the next amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act even though it was here and already at the next session that will start on 8.11. this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74205	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Škulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that this is really an introduction to the amendments and additions to this Health Insurance Act. We know how long we've been waiting for a package of health insurance laws that passed the pre-reading, so it's back to doping in the government, so first reading, then there's workshops where many people were interested in participating that the law as Mr. Ljubicic said would be as high-quality as possible and in favour of the poor and socially sensitive in order to make health care easier. Unfortunately, no representatives of persons with disabilities are invited to these workshops. That's what I've already warned you, Mr. Minister, when these laws have been discussed by committees. We know that people with disabilities are the most vulnerable group of citizens, that they live in poverty or on the poverty line, that they fall into a difficult employment category, that the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund is not very helpful in employment because within six months of this year, the Fund has spent only one million kuna from the estimated 37 million kuna for the whole year. Most people with disabilities are the only income of cash compensation for the unemployed, means of assistance for maintenance, compensation for assistance and care or personal disability. We are also familiar with the fact that people with disabilities are often users of health services and every doctor’s visit costs a lot. Due to the lack of support services, the unadjusted transport of disabled persons is forced to pay for the assistance of another person, including to go to a doctor. And this very social income goes into revenue. It's one of the really cynical articles. Article 23 of this Act gives rise to all receipts made to families on behalf of non-performing income, income or income from independent activity, receipts from which other income, assets, property rights, capital, insurance and all other receipts made under specific regulations are determined, and thus this famous Article 25 continues. Income referred to in Article 23 of this Act shall be included: compensation during temporary prevention of work, i.e. sick leave, maternity leave compensation, payment for unemployment, maintenance aid, home allowance, assistance for settlement of housing costs, allowances for assistance and care, allowance for children, orthopaedic allowance, otherwise I note that civilian disabled persons do not have the right to orthopaedic allowance, only persons with disabilities, personal disability, care and family disability paid under specific regulations, etc. Interestingly, this article was studied below the grains in the second reading. The first reading of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act stated that all these social incomes do not go into revenue. As a result, there was a shock among people with disabilities following the tightening of the criteria for achieving precisely these receipts after the removal of the right to release VAT on car purchase following the withdrawal of the right to travel expenses for going to another place of treatment only under the pressure of the opposition and it took the government over a year to return that right. Honestly, I'm afraid that's exactly what happens with this article of the Law. For the sake of information from my colleagues, the personal disability amounts to a thousand kunas, a fee for the employment of 280 kunas, an extra for foreign assistance and care from 285 kuna to a full amount of 400 kuna. I also note that one right excludes another. So you can't receive a personal disability and employment benefits or, say, an allowance for other people's help and care and employment benefits. So much for the availability of health care and social sensitivity. It seems that our standards are significantly different in what is available and what is socially sensitive. This once again confirms my claim that you ignored people with disabilities first through the welfare system, and that's exactly what you do with the health care system, and all this leads to poverty and discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74207	Thank you. Final review, Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I'm glad to hear it, and if I understand it correctly, somewhere it wasn't quite understandable that actually support these changes and additions would be complete. What I want to make clear is that these are these, and I repeat actually that these are practical solutions. What do practical solutions mean? No law, so neither one can actually be a solution now, so for how many years, it's illusory to expect it. Any better solution we'll have, which will be in favor of our citizens and that's what the point is we never have and we won't resist, so that's why these things are here. So I'm going to list just a few things that are actually the consequences of this law, so that's what we brought here in July and we're already seeing the results. Today I had a show and I did not present these results, she presented television independently of us a significant reduction in waiting lists thanks to the provisions of this Law. The availability of medicines. For the first time all medicines in Croatia are equally available for all categories of citizens, and the medicines we have in France and Belgium and in Italy and the United States we have finally and in Croatia and we will say enough that the media, that I do not know who organises charity actions to collect for the medicine. We don't want that time back and that's exactly the consequence of this law. Prevention programs. Well, that's something that's crucial. Without it, absolutely no Croatian health care, no health care practically in Europe or the world can go forward again, stems from this Law. And just one more piece of information, I think pregnant women themselves would be very angry if we put them in the social category. I'll say it's special, God-day category, population category, let's not talk about it as social. It's a special category, we want to give them absolutely everything they need. So did we? National population policy speaks more than much. And here is Mr. Arlovic, the Honorable Mr. Representative Arlovic, therefore said a few words about the list of medicines. He said he talks like a layman, and I support that he talks like a layman, so nice that he said that because our list of drugs actually made a waistline. Our doctors have made a list of medicines, and they're going to make a list of medicines, and that's what we keep saying that healthcare has to be above politics, and that's why the list of medicines will be tailored by the profession, not by the administration. And in the end, it's just another little piece of information. Here's yesterday I got information that France, here's a check, that France is going to make a new list of medicines that are practically, I'm not going to say identical, I'm going to say it's very similar to our list of medicines. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74209	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for an amending and supplementing law on compulsory health insurance. The amendment was filed by the HNS Representatives' Club. Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem, please be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74211	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The government can't accept the amendment. In accordance with Article 163 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament may only be submitted to the articles submitted by amendments and amendments. As the article does not cover amendments and additions, we do not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74212	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74213	Thank you, Mr. President. I, in the discussion, pointed out that I am aware that the amendment is non-businessal, however, since it is an obvious failure, I have prayed to the Government if in any way otherwise that it gives its amendment to this article, because it is a violation of the rights that will have to be exercised by the government's will, so I don't know why it didn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74214	The vote. The result? He didn't get the necessary majority. There are 22 votes for, six abstentions and 62 against. We're going to vote on the final bill. Please vote. Let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? I find that with 84 votes for, 2 abstentions and 5 against the proposed Final Bill. Let's go to the next point - - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Statutory Insurance with increased duration, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 550 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Labour and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Vera Babic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74216	Honorable MPs and respected MPs. I won't take up much of your time, all of your sentences or two. I will not further explain this proposal, Mr. President, but I am familiar with the fact that the Legislative Committee has proposed that an emergency procedure be removed from this proposal. Although it is a small novel to say so and to refer only to the position of the machinery on board, with an explanation given by the Legislative Committee on behalf of the motionor, Mr. President, I am prepared to accept the removal of the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74217	Thank you. The Committee on Labour and Social Policy, a respected representative, President Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74218	Your Honor, Mr. President. At the 61st session of the Committee held on 18 October 2006, the Committee on Labour and Social Policy discussed the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Insurance Intervention Act with an increased duration with the Final Proposal for a Act of 28 September 2006 on... The Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body in accordance with its powers as Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The introductory explanation was submitted by the applicant's representative. During the discussion, the members of the Committee supported the opinion of the Croatian Institute of Medicine and agreed that the application of the Institute of Insurance Stats was established with an increased duration at the place of work of the machinery on board. According to the expert documentation, the presence of adverse effects on the health of staff members of the Committee is justified by the fact that, every 12 months, they are carried out at that place of work in an insurance internship as 14 months. In addition, the re-recognition of the rights that have been abolished has not changed the working conditions in these jobs. The members of the Committee were familiar with the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen to also be granted the rights of the craftsman who works in the workplace, particularly those who are difficult to health and work, as set out in Article 1 of this Act. In the discussion, the Committee members agreed to the opinion of the proposing representative, who warned that the Institute was training insurance with increased duration as proposed by the provisions of this law could apply only to full-time workers and not to workers who do not have a reasonable working time. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Act on the Completion of the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74219	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP MPs' club, Honored Vice-President Mate Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74220	Mr. President! Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is now easier to discuss this bill after the proposal's representative agreed to remove the emergency procedure. Although it is a small amendment to the law that we support with one small supplement, it should be taken more as a cause and, perhaps, a special conclusion should be asked by the promoter to consider, when drawing up the final bill, other calls and occupations relating to individual jobs in our industry and in providing services and, of course, other activities for which the possibility of introducing an internship with increased duration should be considered. That's the first one. Second. We believe that it is necessary for such an increase in duration to be applied to craftsmen and not only to declare that they have the status of employees of others but practically all the rights of the attempt to achieve them. And third, of course, which is extremely important. The question arises why is it proposed that a machine-mounter on board should be given an increased lifeline from 12 months to 14 months, i.e. to be included with a shipowner, ship-former, ship-to-ship ship-to-ship ship-to-ship ship-to-ship ship-to-ship ship-to-ship ship-to-ship ship-to-ship craft installation and at the same time not evenly with the ship-to-ship-to-ship-to-ship-mounter, ship-to-hull installation. It must never be forgotten that ship-mounters work practically in a closed area and that there are precisely these jobs being carried out under points 2, 3, 4 and especially 5, places of gas-cutting, hand-and-hand ship elements on pre-mounting and installation are carried out where they are installing the ship's engines and everything else. Therefore, in such a situation, there are a number of arguments that this job should practically be given an increased internship from 12 to 15 months and not from 12 to 14 months with all others because all others who work are in certain segments even repairers to do the job that must be done so that all harmful gases, all unfavourable working conditions relating to the environment in which this work is done are broken to a shipmonter or a machine installer on board. And to conclude on behalf of our club, we will support this proposal in the first reading by proposing that this law, when an emergency procedure is now removed, should not now enter into force on the day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper" as referred to in Article 2 but should take effect 8 days after its publication in "The People's Newspaper". Secondly, to examine other professions and professions and jobs until the final proposal of the law, could there be a possible additional internship with increased duration for other jobs and jobs as well. And third, to consider the possibility that this for a machine-mounter on board, actually gets an increased internship from 12 to 15 and not from 12 to 14 months for a simple reason because by nature things it is related to jobs that are otherwise intended as other occupations to an increased duration of 15 months. Here, this is what we wanted to say and what we wanted in particular to suggest with the fact that the question of going to retirement and the increased duration of life is tied up and for years of age should be further corrected in the explanation but that is another question that is not needed, because it will not be voted on. We only point out, this should be taken into account in view of the new Pension Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74221	Thank you. For the club IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74222	Your Honor, Mr. President! Dear Madam Secretary of State! This law should support no dilemma but this opportunity may need to be used to say the following. Non-privatisation of "Uljanika" as well as the immigration of the production of ship's engines from Rijeka and Pula to Split. It is clear that this law concerns machinery on board and people, so to speak, deserves a well-defined internship and understandably that so much club IDS absolutely supports this legislative proposal. We all know very well that Croatia's shipbuilding is somewhere in the world's fifth order, that the order book by 2010, weighs $2 billion 650 million, "Olinik" has 20 orders of $962 million, "Brodoplit" 23 730 million, "May 3rd" $570 million, etc. But where's the problem? Let's say an "Olinik" per ship, watch out for the boat contracts for 48 million dollars and one "Brodoplit" for 31.7 million dollars, and about the ships work for the same quality. What's he gonna say? That after this year's state has no less than directed at the shipbuilding of 4 billion kuna 200 million and that of Brodosplit about a billion and 700, the Rivers around a billion and 700, the Brodotrogiru about 620, the Kraljejevici, the clear pulse "Oljinik" 0 kuna, that in a year we will be in a situation that these shipyards will have to be rescheduled with a minimum of 100 maybe 150 million dollars if we want to keep social peace and in the "peace" elections in 2007. Shipbuilding directly hires if I'm not wrong somewhere around 35,000 people. In the shipyards themselves, there are about 10,000 people, 7,000 of them... Cooperatives make about two and a half billion dollars a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The share of shipbuilding in exports is 15%, the share of domestic products in the ship is unfortunately modest around 65% unlike Japan where 100, Korea 95%. So, what am I saying? The fate of Croatian shipyards is a crucial economic and political issue, I dare say all our Adriatic counties and so much in my court if we can help shipbuilding or people who are employed there we have simply helped the economic structure of each of these cities where these shipyards are located. Here, with these words, the IDS Club absolutely supports this Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration or a benefited internship, and we want some dubiosiss that are observed within Croatian shipyards to be completed as soon as possible, and also in the context of the debate that will follow and when Mr Bajić will present to us the State's Attorney's Office's State Report because I just want to say that they are in the world in the shipbuilding industry so-called. A commission when the shipbuilding on Wednesday was called a cross-country. It simply divides under the table huge money and that practice as soon as possible needs to be put to rest. Here, for the end of the last sentence, let me say it. The IDS absolutely supports this law on the insurance internship with an increase in duration. Too bad the law wasn't passed before, because I think maybe some social opportunities in some of our shipyards would be far better than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74223	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increase in duration. This was an emergency procedure, and in accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Intervention Act with an increased duration with the Final Proposal for a Law was held in the first reading. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. The proposal for a Legislative Committee to conduct a debate on this final proposal for a law in the first reading was accepted by the Proposer. So we vote on the fact that this bill goes into debate in the first reading. Please vote. The result? With 91 votes for and 3 abstentions accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74226	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament! It's before you again that I never see the Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2005 before me again. Methodologically, it's done the way you're used to getting it back and forth these few years. It is a report on the work of 60 municipal state attorneys, 20 county USKOK and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia or a report on the work of 660 state attorneys and professional associates. Methodologically, it is designed to provide first of all a report on the work on criminal cases, then a report on the work on the legal actions taken to protect property, and especially on the state of and the movement of crime as an objective category that itself has nothing to do with the work of the state's attorney's office but it is the only opportunity that the Croatian Parliament knows the real situation at least as far as criminal charges are concerned with the state and movement of crime. With this in mind, it may be precisely the opportunity to once again, although you all know it, I warn you that the state's attorney's office does not file criminal charges but acts as a law enforcement body on the criminal charges filed. It is a very important fact because I see that lately in Croatian media, it is especially causing great misunderstandings and misunderstandings. I don't need a course, but I think it's very important because often the state's attorney's office unauthorized or better said unwarrantedly calls for a criminal application and these are the tasks and bodies of other state bodies of detection and this is not the state's attorney's office. In the shortest lines, I will try to highlight in my presentation of these first half-hours the essential elements of one and the second part of the report, especially this first part, which is certainly more interesting to you, which is work on criminal cases. Last 2005 there was a decline in the number of criminal charges filed by about 2%. However, by analysing these criminal charges, the number of criminal charges filed against known perpetrators increased by over 6% while the number of unsolved unknown criminal charges dropped by 9%, which in itself gives encouraging information that police work in the previous period was more quality than it was a year earlier. The fact that I mentioned last year and which is particularly interesting for Kajin, is that the area of Pula and Istria is the most represented by the number of crimes committed there on 100,000 inhabitants, which is for the same reasons that I have been talking about for years, primarily taking into account the facts of the tourist area, large migrations, borders, etc. because it is primarily the type of crime that is characteristic of tourist areas or the area of the border. Last year's data which has been remembered and noted that in Croatia, 100 thousand inhabitants in this part of Europe seem to be the smallest number of crimes left and this year it is somewhere around 2 thousand 134 criminal charges per 100,000 inhabitants which the data once again says that nothing has changed compared to last year, even though the number of these criminal charges is less by 2%. Acting on these criminal charges, which are in itself an objective category and independent of the work of the State Attorney's Office, made a total of 50,000 decisions. We immediately sued the competent courts 54% of all these cases, we rejected 34.5% of all criminal charges filed, and about 11% of all cases were investigated, or after that, in the charges following the investigation. These parameters and indicators are somewhere on the established level as well as earlier years and show that compared to the number of rejections of criminal charges 1/3 of all criminal charges filed under our criteria, or according to the selection of the State Attorney's Office, we have carried out a review of the work of ten county attorneys and their district attorneys and we have found that the selection is correct, i.e. the primary rejection of criminal charges because the reported actions do not have the characteristics of the criminal offence, or that they are leniency proceedings that allow one of the institutions under the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, which is so-called. an opportunity in the case of minors, i.e. insignificant or leniency of the criminal offence referred to in Article 28, in relation to some other effects. The average time, I say, I stress, the average time of work on those criminal charges is about 3 months at last year's level and at a level that is approximately the standard of the conduct of state attorneys or prosecutors in European countries. However, 1/3 of the cases are still not solved at that time and it takes a lot more time to get rid of them. As a result, in 2004, we have introduced a special monitoring of all cases over 6 years of age, when I say special monitoring, then this means that every 6 months, all district attorneys provide lists of all cases that have been solved for more than 6 months with their number and stage in which they are located, as well as the reasons why these cases have not been solved. Moreover, I believe that the number of rejections of criminal cases should be greater by applying these institutes of insignificant crime as set out in Article 28, or by the principle of purpose set out in Article 175. The CAP, because in this way it would certainly put courts in a position to solve difficult cases, more socially dangerous than the insignificant ones. But the way the state's attorneys are acting lower than these institutions is enough, it provides resistance, so that the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia is also carrying out a whole series of instructive meetings and mandatory instructions on how to apply those institutes. Compared to the verdicts made on our charges, the situation is even better than last year. 87.8% of all convictions are judgmental. This is an extremely good piece of information, although perception is public, and surely you too that the percentage of judgments is significantly different. However, these data are not deceived, they are accurate and true. 4.9% of the convictions are repulsible, where the State's Attorney's Office gave up persecution during the main debate and 7.3% were liberating. However, regarding the verdicts, it should be pointed out that, as did several years ago, when the institute was imposed into the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia over 6 thousand and 800 cases annually, the decisions for criminal proceedings, namely that the courts do not make that verdict in fact, but only confirm the proposal by the State's Attorney's Office for the Criminal Order because more than 5 thousand indictees ended in a criminal order last year without the defendant's objection, which means that the State's Attorney's Office has made a significant contribution to the speed of handling and making a large number of court decisions. Because I'm telling you almost 30% of the decisions are made based on our proposal. As for the convictions on one hand, in one of the charts on page 10, we also gave the structure of the criminal sanctions that were imposed in 2005. And it's interesting that the number of unconditional prison sentences increased from a year before or perhaps even more, two, three years back. And now it's about 14%. Which is a relatively good number of convictions, taking into account the fact that in relation to a large number of criminal offences until the latest amendment of the Penal Code, when you strengthened the criminal sanctions this summer, it was just allowing for mild parole. As far as criminal policy is concerned, both because of the fact that the state's attorneys themselves are proposing criminal orders of type and severity of criminal sanctions and because of the fact that they still file relatively fewer complaints than I think they should. Penalty policy is still milder than it should be, but that's what the state's attorney's office did because they didn't complain as much as they should have done in my assessment. Especially making sure that as much as 40% of complaints are respected. The specific chapter refers to the treatment of minors, which is particularly important and very important. And with regard to these criminal cases, it is very important that I draw your attention to the part of violence where minors are concerned. This year, compared to a year ago, there was a slight increase in the number of crimes committed by minors, but this is about the same level for several years, something over 3 is thousands of criminal charges. However, in relation to minors, it is important for you to note the fact that, compared to even 54% of all criminal charges, the state attorneys reject criminal charges by applying the principle of opportunity, believing that only filing a criminal application, talking to registered minors and their parents through defecologists, etc. and the appropriate preparatory procedure can achieve a purpose so that further court proceedings are not relevant. It is already an established practice that has proved to be good and should continue to be cherished. The specific chapter refers to the structure and area or the movement of crime in different areas of crime. The crimes against life and the body have seen a fall from last year, which is very good. In particular, I must stress to you the fact that not that there has been a significant increase in the crimes of murders and serious murders as it is in the perception of the public, but that compared to 2004, when 267 murders or attempted murders were reported in 2005, only 233 people were reported. So, fall. Perception is completely different. Criminal acts against human and citizen rights show an increase of as much as 13%. However, in relation to these offences, the criminal offence of a threat that represents as much as 88% of all the crimes in this chapter, which is the latest amendments to the Penal Code referred to in paragraph 1, will be transferred to the sphere of private lawsuits, so that the situation will be significantly different compared to this number of criminal charges by year. War crimes against war crimes often and too often may be spoken in public, but statistics tell you that in 2005 40 people were reported for these crimes. All of what is the subject of the State's Attorney's Office's work is from the earlier 90's until today when there are 4000 824 persons in all of these cases, but currently in criminal proceedings for the 90's war crimes, so to this day a thousand 107 persons have been recorded since the beginning of this year. In relation to war crimes, I may draw attention to how in 2005 and especially in this first half of 2006 we were dealing with World War II research and war crimes, and in this direction we specifically engaged the Croatian State Archives of the Republic of Croatia, which, by our order, carried out the subject of a significant part of the archive and in this direction provided the materials delivered by the State's Attorney's Office to the Ministry of Interior and requested criminal processing and in relation to these actions. The crimes of intoxicating drugs are known for growing year after year. Last year for 9%. Of this, it is significant that the most difficult forms of these crimes are growing, and that is the abuse of the intoxicating drugs referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 where dealing or a qualified form of distribution is mentioned where even the organisation is concerned. Crimes against public order and peace are also about to rise by 13.8% in earlier years, but it is primarily about criminal acts of illicit holding of arms which are the most significant number in relation to this criminal structure, as well as the offences of preventing official persons from performing official duties. The crimes of economic crime, of course, represent the particular attention of your debate on our report every year. Crimes against payment and business security are about the same level and on page 28 are given graphic depictions of these crimes. Of this kind are the most relevant crimes of economic fraud that represent this type and area of crime in the most significant number. In this type of criminal case, it's interesting that we have the number of condemning crimes extremely large. I'm talking about criminal acts against the security of payment and business as much as 86%. However, as far as crimes against official duty are concerned, the situation is very different. The number is about as small as last year, but the most reprehensible crime is abuse of position or authority. In relation to these crimes, discards are brought in as many as 90% of cases. Why? We have made a special analysis by trying to determine the reason for this, and it is primarily about the fact that a large number of criminal charges are filed against all the participants of any decisions taken in the administration, the judiciary, etc. The majority of criminal cases have been brought against officials who have made the appropriate decisions. For example, only last year, one person filed 385 criminal charges against different officials for the offence of abuse of office or authority. We've trained him, I must admit, and we've determined that he's mentally incompetent, or that it's a person who's criminally irresponsible. Organized crime and corruption is an area covered by USKOK, the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. Statistical indicators have been provided, and these indicators show that there were 128 counts of corruption and 258 reports for organised crime in 2005. However, no person has been reported as an organizer of a criminal organisation, as the crown of the most serious part of organised crime, but the reason is that in any case, the evidence of a criminal organisation as set out in Article 89 of Article 23. The penal code, it's a really big problem, but that doesn't mean that they're not designated as members of a criminal group, etc. etc. That I do not enter into these details, they are explained in this report. The number of corruption crimes in our own and my personal position is not satisfactory and the result of the work in this area is not good. That's my responsibility. In particular, in the second half and early of this year, however, it appeared significantly that the Office for the Prevention of Corruption to a significant extent of the team and to be able to work alongside the police and other regular authorities, to take responsibility for the detection of corruption offences. I think the results, I don't think, but I do know that the results in the first half of this year are significantly different and that by the year in the report in the sixth year we'll have significantly better results. In relation to crimes against the harm of minors, I must especially highlight the criminal offence or criminal acts of domestic violence. That's the information on page 40 and 41 that's particularly worrying. There has been a significant increase in these crimes of domestic violence as set out in Article 215. Penalty law. Why? We have investigated this very closely, and we have found that it is not only the result of the fact that the number of these crimes is much higher than before, but also that because of the perception of the public and because of the sensitivity of this issue, they are increasingly filing criminal charges for which no one would have referred or reported earlier, and today it is done much more aggressively, much more frequently than before, and these cases have absolute priority in the work of not only state attorneys but also in the work of courts. Something about working on civil and administrative matters. It is significant that last year there was also a significant number of crashes and civil cases, which is very interesting especially a significant number of cases of litigation which is very good. The reason for this lies in the fact that the number of work disputes has fallen significantly. Labour disputes culminated there somewhere in 2003 and were significantly represented in 2004 but in most cases they were already resolved, primarily by settlements in relation to lawsuits which were against the Ministry of the Interior which were otherwise most represented by labour disputes and lawsuits for, from labour and legal relations. On the other hand, in the last year, there was an increase in the number of executive and out-of-parson items, primarily land-based books, which resulted in a higher involvement of the state or attorneys, as well as administrative services to protect the state property of primarily land-based books, so the work on books has been intensified, etc. A review of the work towards state bodies represented by the State Attorney's Office has been given. The largest number of cases is related to the Ministry of Interior then the Ministry of the Sea, the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture and finally the Ministry of Defence. There are statistical indicators, there's no point in me bothering you with that because from all of that it's given to conclude from which basis they are, from all of the jobs we've represented the state. Now, one category we've already been tracking for the third year. The total value of the cases of litigation that we had in law-based representation was 13 billion 335 million 282 kuna. Of that 22.6% of this total amount, we're like state prosecutors, and in the rest we're sued. This parity is something better than last year compared to the prosecutor-in-law, but this amount in itself does not represent the internal debt of the Republic of Croatia, because if we take care of the relationship between lost and won disputes, especially in this kind, then we can certainly halve that amount at the very least. Banks. Something about bankruptcy. The number of bankruptcy proceedings last year fell drastically. We've had all the new 180 bankruptcy proceedings. The reason is that mostly the largest number of large companies’ bankruptcys started in earlier years, and they no longer enter, while the bankruptcy of those small private companies whose largest number is actually not implemented, because the funds for these bankruptcys were not secured, and there was no harm to the state because it was not implemented, because the bankruptcy itself had already begun and the opening of the bankruptcy itself was more than 10 thousand kunas, and the company itself did not have 20 thousand kunas in the founding account. But in this direction, together with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, we went towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia with one initiative to amend this bankruptcy law so that the state for the opening of bankruptcy against small private companies would not spend more than their total value and core capital. Something about success in civil matters. In the disputes in which we represent the Republic of Croatia as a prosecutor, we received 68.5% of the cases as a whole, 6% of the disputes were completely lost, while the rest was resolved in another way. But where we were sued, so where we represent the state as a defendant, we got only 13.5% of the disputes, we lost 40.4% of the disputes. Unfortunately, in a significant part of these cases where we have been sued in the event that funds were provided in the budget, we would certainly make deals with the prosecutors and thus speed up the settlement of these cases and reduce costs for the Republic of Croatia, however, they were not fully provided so that, except in the working disputes of the other settlements, we did not actually conclude. As for the part where we talk about legal issues, we have particularly drawn attention to the process of recording ownership and other real rights to the Republic of Croatia and to the general goods and pointed out the need for the fact that, according to the law next year, the deadlines of trust in land books and after that, everything where the state is not registered could be considered in another way than it has been so far. We asked and proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to extend these deadlines to give the state the opportunity to enter the next period, and in any case before the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union to register its properties in land books. Something about the exploitation of mineral raw materials. The representative Kovacevic will surely follow this closely. In particular, we have turned to control the exploitation of the mineral treasure in 500 exploitation fields in the country and have filed 83 lawsuits with a total claim of 381 million kuna. This is where it came in and we've identified significant parts of the gap over the record and the collection of mineral raw materials exploitation, and lately, especially the police and the State Inspectorate are taking a whole series of measures to address it. Alternative resolution methods have been specifically processed as well as the contribution of the State's Attorney's Office to the justice reform of the Republic of Croatia, and are in conclusion given the basic elements of this year's report. So in case you're not interested in all the information that's listed here, you can take a brief look at the state of crime and the movement of crime, but especially what the State's Attorney's Office has done in the area of civil and criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74227	Thank you. The Justice Committee. President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74228	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. At the 46th session held on 26 September 2006, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the national lawyers in 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 17 August 2006. The Committee discussed the report in question in accordance with Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In an exhaustive presentation of the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia, the report on the work of the state's attorneys for 2005 pointed out that it was drawn up in accordance with the methodology of earlier reports and gave a complete overview of the work of the state's attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, USKOK, county and municipal state offices. The main feature of the reported crime movement is the increase in the number of reports against known perpetrators by 5%. The optimal alert limit has been reached, the average time from the receipt of the application until the decision has been reached for about 3 months, all cases which have not been resolved within six months of receipt of the application by the State Attorney's Office have been followed. One-third of the criminal charges were resolved by rejection. In total, 87.8% of the convictions and 7.3% of the acquittals were issued by the indictments. In the total structure of criminal sanctions, the prison participates with 14.1%), which is an increase compared to 2004. The importance of issuing criminal orders is highlighted. There is a steady increase in the crime of domestic violence, a decrease in labour disputes, a decline in bankruptcy cases. The importance of registering the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on real estate is highlighted. The involvement of the State's Attorney's Office in judicial reform is significant with a view to improving the efficiency of the judiciary. In the debate, members of the Committee gave unanimous support to the 2005 report on the work of the national lawyers. The members of the Committee had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which supports the report in question. On the report on the work of the National Attorneys, members of the Committee also delivered specific opinions and proposals. It is the Committee's assessment that the report on the work of state lawyers in 2005 provides a report on the state of our society that, using the methodology, it provides a basis for expert and scientific analysis and discussion that there is no other document that gives its content a complete overview of the scales and structures of crime in the Republic of Croatia. It is extremely important to stress that crime in the Republic of Croatia does not show a trend in growth compared to other countries. To measure the same against the number of criminal offences reported on 100,000 inhabitants rather than on the rise of a certain type of crime, dangerous forms of crime for every society such as domestic violence, corruption, robbery and the like. It is suggested to highlight as little as possible the average time of emergency as possible to avoid possible manipulation, and attention should be paid to the reduction of those procedures that take too long. It has been pointed out that the jurisdiction of a state lawyer to issue a criminal order by means of an indictment is subject to the law by means of a prescribed instrument, not the discharging of courts according to the assessment of the State Attorney's Office contained on page nine of the reports. It is suggested that state attorneys should act more resolutely when it comes to rejection for insignificant crimes. It has been pointed out that state attorneys may influence the type and extent of criminal sanctions to lodge an appeal, thus narrowing the possibility of courts to impose excessive penalties on those forms of crime which are of particular danger to stable social opportunities and legal certainty. Therefore, an analysis of the number and percentages of complaints lodged on penalties should be carried out, and in particular an analysis should be carried out of those areas of courts where there are significant differences in esteemed complaints, e.g. In the Čakovec area, 68% of complaints are respected, while 24% of complaints are respected in Požega. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw the following conclusion: a report on the work of the national lawyers is adopted in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74229	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality. I'm opening a debate. Club representative of HDZ, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74230	Mr. President, State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's really fast before us, or it's been a really long time since we've had a previous report, but there's still another well-designed report on the work of state's attorneys in 2005. I have to admit, when we look at it, it has a lot of similar elements like that report from a year ago, and this report is really very high-quality, and it contains all the necessary elements that it needs. We have really a lot of data, lots of figures, lots of charts, analysis, really from the report you can get a real impression and picture of the work of the state's attorneys in 2005. However, it is not just an ordinary factography where we have numbers and facts, it is actually a report that gives some knowledge of the movement of crime as a social phenomenon in our society, but also not only about crime but also about the other part that we very often unfairly put into another plan, which is that civil and legal aspect, it is in those areas where the State's Attorney's Office performs in civil and administrative matters in which the property rights of the Republic of Croatia are protected. This Report therefore also speaks of the meaning of the work of the State Attorney's Office on cases related to numbers, on the state of crime and on this important civil-law dimension. What do you say about the work grade? The basic characteristics of the work in 2005 would, in any case, be one very high awareness, success in the work that is actually visible from all these figures here in the Report. If 90 was received in 2005, slightly more than 95 thousand criminal charges are slightly less than in 2004 and if of that number in the State's Attorney's Office remained at work a total of 132 applications, then this is indeed a very respectable result. The fact is, however, that one 12,000 items and something addressed to other state bodies because they are more complex objects, and additional insights and analyses regarding this need to be carried out. It is also a respectable time-limit in which these applications are being resolved, so the deadline is already several years ago three months ago, which is really satisfying and therefore leads to a really great update. You yourself said that we as a state, regardless of the public's impression of the state of crime, that there are slightly more than 2,000 criminal charges on 100,000 citizens, which is less than all the countries in our environment. And looking at it from that point of view, despite all the painful things we look at in the media every day, looking at it means statistically it's not such a huge number compared to how we compete with our environment. I have to say, we're a little used to this up-to-date state's attorney's work, and I think it's going to have to continue in the future. As far as success is concerned, and it is evident because of the total number of these criminal charges about 54 and slightly more than a few percent go to direct charges either directly to the indictment, there was an indictment proposal, 34 and a few percent of the criminal charges were dropped and 11% ended up in the investigation. So it's some more complex items where a certain analysis is needed, some far more complex work to determine the right factual state. If the prosecution means of this 54% of what goes into action we have almost 88% of the convictions, that means if in almost 88% of the case the State's Attorney's Office succeeds with the indictments, it's really a very good, excellent result. Finally, such standards should also be pursued because the criminal procedure is the procedure in which a person is affected by those fundamental rights, fundamental freedoms that an individual has and in such procedures where a public apparatus is engaged, indeed, in those proceedings should go when there is a high certainty that the procedure will result in a positive outcome. Such success should also add something to the satisfaction or dissatisfaction of the penalties imposed in the proceedings. We've talked a lot about it here and you've given a number of opinions here in your report, and this is one of the few reports where we see certain doses of self-critism, which is quite fine, because you yourself are aware of certain things that you need to work on more. About the policy of punishment. Of course none of us are satisfied and the question is, what can anyone from their position in this country do? We as Parliament are done. We changed the Penal Code in a way that for a whole series of criminal offences, we changed the criminal frameworks because we noticed that most of the criminal offences were sanctioned in a way that imposed penalties around the minimum penalties. That is why we have increased the lower limit in the large number of criminal offences, and this very fact should result in more severe punishment. As far as the State's Attorney's Office's work is concerned, it also states that the State's Attorney's Office in all cases in which it considers that there is no adequate punishment for the need to file a complaint and thus affect a stricter criminal policy. In fact, every day we look at the media and we wonder for certain crimes as to how punishments are pronounced that are certainly not the right answer of society in relation to certain behavior. The report, of course, is except for this factography to assess the state of crime, which means moving on certain groups of criminal, criminal acts, and if we can actually say that there are some drastic, significant changes compared to the last few years and there are no. Furthermore, in most cases, we are involved in property crimes and we see in fact that criminal charges against life and bodies have fallen by 7.5% compared to the previous period, criminal charges for acts against freedom and human rights have increased by 13.6%, applications for violent behavior in the family referred to in Article 215 are on the rise. Now, that's one thing that really concerns you, and you said in your debate that it could be one of the influences, a greater sensitivity of the public regarding these crimes. That's true, and I think that as a society, we have to react, we have to take all those measures that we have at our disposal to achieve a reduction and actually give protection to these vulnerable groups. As we can see, we have autonomous houses that are organized by NGOs and I think we should give these groups all possible support because we see this year, and this year the public was also obsessed with those serious crimes that were committed I don't know in Nazor where the murder was, and then in Čakovec. These are really works that are very, very difficult. What worries. Fighting corruption, organised crime, economic crime. That is, unfortunately, in your report very correctly and you say yourself that it is very difficult, that you are not alone satisfied with how we stand in that field and we read it actually year after year. And as I would not like to say as an excuse but it is indeed a fact that these are works that are very sophisticated. These are works that are hard to discover and there is one teamwork, there needs work not only within our system but also with the state bodies of neighbouring countries. Indeed, what you've said to the public is that people don't know about who in that system what they're doing, is the State's Attorney's Office really a body that deals primarily with persecution, and that's what other works are about. But the perception of the public is that we all actually make a state as a whole and the state as a matter of fact has to give answers to such behaviours, so no matter who it is. The problem of the witches is also highlighted. That's unequivocal. Experts are employed, but there is a provision that seems to me to be in the Law on the State's Attorney's Office in Article 25 where you would have the right to ask other state bodies for certain assistance, so if I can suggest for a variety of financial skills, I think there are people in our Ministry of Finance who can give answers to certain questions with some kind of contract of action or such arrangements so that at certain stages of the procedure they may participate and may actually be one important support. So, when we look at all of this, there are no significant changes in the movement of crime as a social phenomenon compared to the last reporting period, but in any case, these phenomena mean an increase in criminal acts related to violent conduct, an increase in criminal acts referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 173. The criminal law regarding intoxicating drugs, then organised crime, economic crime and the fight against corruption, there we need one complete, one comprehensive teamwork with other state bodies. Also, what I want to point out from this report of yours is one rationality in the work because the Institute of Investigation is used in around 11% of cases in relation to the criminal charges filed. This means that compared to those 54 and some percent where you go into a direct accusation that you actually work very well with the police and you carry out those investigative actions, and that means that I'm going to have these investigative actions already have one complete factual evidence substrate with which you can go directly to the prosecution, and that's quite clear that it's okay because this investigation is as conjectured as it is with us right now that we're having pre-examinations, after that investigation, after that everything is repeated in the main debate and it's actually been a long time. It is likely that the investigation will also have to experience a certain redefinition in our Penal Code, and it is certainly necessary to preserve it in a certain form and related to these most complex acts of sophistication. I also see that a settlement is also used, yes, I see that there is also a criminal order that relieves courts, which is all quite commendable and that is quite all right. I see the light's on. I have to finish faster. What is encouraging is this citizen-legal part because we see that we finally have a huge drop in litigation cases because it really wasn't pleasant to read all these years of reports in which the state owed its employees Christmases, overtime and such things. Now we finally see that it falls, that the number of litigation is halved, and that's what's really to praise. I want to mention bankruptcy. The bankruptcy you and you have already listed here is almost 2 billion kuna we lost in the previous years, about 400 million last year. We've changed the bankruptcy law, we're trying to make it more efficient, we're trying to make it better. However, the problem of bankruptcy is you well detected it in its late opening. It is necessary to try to apply those provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies, which means that those who open late bankruptcy are processed. It is also necessary to use that instrument of refuting legal actions by third parties to preserve the state's claims. What's going on? Event in practice, the company has been blocked for years and its assets are being transferred in that blockade, as much as they are worth to some other legal entities and we all remain short-sleeved. Maybe an institute like this can help. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this report. The report is quality, the figures are figures and the figures are really very correct despite the public's impression of whatever it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74231	Thank you. SDP's respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. She's gone. The club loses its word. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74232	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Chief Attorney of State! Well, one of the fundamental values of modern democracy, or democratic gains, is the rule of law. And now, we are discussing the principle of rule of law today and only one of the factors that should be guaranteed in the name of the state is that the rule of law principle is brought to life. So one of the factors that has been brought to life is that we will need to hold a thematic session, which is the proposal of the Croatian Party Club, a thematic session on organised crime, privatisation and corruption. But this means that at such one thematic session, all the factors that participate or should guarantee Croatian citizens that the rule of law is exercised in the work. Here, today we're only discussing one part of this is the State's Attorney's Office's 2005 report. As you can see, there is neither the Minister of the Interior nor the Minister of Justice, nor anyone from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We discuss about half past seven when we started or after 18 hours, and in this way we will not achieve the purpose that the State's Attorney's Office is doing and as I see it, the state's top and everyone else is declaring. So, the proposal of the Croatian Party Club to hold a thematic session where all the factors will be included because we must be aware that we are involved, as the Croatian Parliament is involved because the Croatian Parliament is passing laws. And what laws we make are seen in practice, as well as in the State's Attorney's Office's report. We're passing laws that aren't simulated on one side. On the other hand, we're passing laws where corruption space is just being created. So we're the first factor. The second factor is important in all this is the state administration. So, the state administration will strictly enforce the laws. The third factor is the police. The police mean that in this section they are working for the needs of the State's Attorney's Office and only the State's Attorney's Office, which, in all cases, will enforce the law of the envisaged measures and after that, we come to the trial itself and to the trial. So we have enough and warnings not only of the European Union that we must organise and take decisive action as the state's attorney has said in order to fight corruption and organised crime. Therefore, it is obvious that this too is what we of the Croatian Party Club are asking for to hold one thematic session where all of these factors with us here parliamentary representatives will be present because it will also be the best message for both Croatian voters and Croatian citizens and all of those such as the state attorney himself and all of us who are unhappy with the situation related to both organised crime and corruption and privatisation. First, I'll start with the privatisation. In this report, I did not see that this part was processed, that the proceedings were initiated, or the appeals for annulment or part of privatisation or full privatisation, and in line with what the State Audit established. So it's about a thousand 481 items where the State Audit determined out of a thousand 556 ninety-five and something that was carried out illegally. And of course he can't do that, there's a state's attorney's right about what he said about criminal charges that he's acting on criminal charges, and here the state's attorney and the state's attorney can't act because he needs to get a request from the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And how will the Croatian Privatisation Fund make some kind of request to cancel part of the privatisation or the whole privatisation when they took part in it? And now we come to this crucial first problem, we draw conclusions, commit government and other relevant bodies and all falls to the Croatian Privatisation Fund and there is no case here. It is likely to be, there are cases in this year that can later be told by the state's attorneys who are on the basis of what they have received from citizens, from workers where they have asked both the police and all relevant to take appropriate measures. It is already this part, visible from this paradox where we as the Croatian Parliament are passing laws where we allow that part that will not be done in terms of what we all want and what we are all looking for. That's the situation for this part, too. Because we know that a lot of crimes have gone into obscenity related to conversion and privatisation because of the fact that the first thing that we did wrong, it was a bad thing to determine the essence of a crime, and the second situation was, until it came to the state's attorney's office and while the investigative, investigative and other actions took place is obsolete. And this shows this report that we have to implement the Criminal Procedure Act to shorten this whole procedure, because essentially a pre-examinational, investigative one only doubles everything is going from the beginning while thus preventing effective and rapid action as in the case of a prosecution body. Our best situation is next. For example, our representative of the state and government assures us that the rule of law is functioning. It's not their job. It's not their job. We have another situation, which I have publicly said on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club in Israel, Israel is waging a war with Hesbollah. At the same time, they're processing the president of the state and the minister. We do not need to be assured by the executive authority that the rule of law is functioning, because it has no right to or to do so because that is why there is a means of state attorneyship, judicial authority and everything else. Now, further in this section, he would refer to us at the HSP club as also an important issue that we raised last year, and regarding these litigation proceedings that the State's Attorney's Office is leading on the government's orders. Why on the orders of the state? Because it used to be the former attorney general's office, and now it's the State's Attorney's office. And there are these cases that the attorney general himself said about, so the value of the total dispute is over 13 billion kuna. Of that, more than 10 billion kunas refer to the case where the state was sued, where the state was sued. If we take to page 55 it's obvious that these are, the state of things in those cases where the state is being sued is of such a nature that it's losing about 70% to the current statistics. And that means if you look at what the value is, at least the situation is such that 7 billion kuna states are going to lose in this part, 7 billion kuna. And when I suggested that on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, the rights when we were making amendments and supplementing the law that in such situations we were going to make a deal, making a deal. Because this situation is clear that the state will lose these disputes. The state loses those disputes and loses. If the State, the Government, does not take measures to make a deal with the payment. Because imagine here, for example, in this case, the state responds that the spot judiciary doesn't work. Why? If it worked, these items would be solved. Seven billion kunas would come a year according to this state budget billing statistics. And here, it means irresponsibly state conduct, and in this case the State's Attorney's Office is working on the government's orders, meaning government and other relevant bodies. Because what's he doing? It buys time, stalls, maybe there will be a situation because someone will give up or I don't know what the intention is, and Croatian citizens suffer. So that's where the citizens sued the state. Why are they suing the state? Because the ministries have no legal personality and then they have to sue the state, whether it's the Ministry of Defence, whether it's about other ministries, and we have a statement in the entire report exactly what the situation is. So, as part of this, we should look back at that part of the state that incorrectly drags citizens through disputes and goes to a settlement, and then you can agree on a roundabout payment of 4.5 years or in any way. But this is a situation I say unsustainable. It was in the next report, and it will be in the new report. Because the State's Attorney's Office can't do anything on its own because it has to have the government's consent, or the government is the one who gives a warrant to the state's attorney for action. Such is the same situation concerning what the chief state attorney said about the state's property registration, whether it was agricultural land, whether it was forest land. We know that there are so many disputes, they're stalling, and in the meantime, there's been this situation that many municipalities and cities have come across, and they've signed up as the general property is theirs, they've done the plot, and then they've sold it to their likeness. For example, the case of Istria and those lands where the agricultural land was, or forest land where the municipalities took advantage of the opportunities, the cities to register as if it were theirs. After that, they sold it to their matchmates. Then they changed the urban plan and it became a construction area. And I know in a lot of cases like this, I'm not talking about you, you've been in the papers, I don't mean you, no, no, before that, yeah. Here, I know that in such cases the State's Attorney's office has initiated these proceedings but there's no answer as far as it came. Therefore, all this is said, so the report cannot be said to be not transparent, that it is not drawn up professionally, qualitatively, that all situations that the State's Attorney General directly participated in both criminal and this other part can be answered. But I say, I propose and seek on behalf of the Croatian Party Club the right to hold this whole thematic debate in order to really create conditions. Because now we've seen organisational conditions and other conditions have been created for the rule of law to function at all levels, and there will be no functioning of the rule of law unless the robbery of conversion and privatisation is resolved. Because then we automatically come and solve the issue of corruption and everything else. But that's where we as agents have to do what we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74233	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74234	Dear colleague, by proposing a thematic session of the Croatian Parliament, misstated or incorrectly stated that we are today discussing the principle of rule of law. We are not discussing the principle of rule of law, we are discussing a report on the work of the state's attorneys. The second wrongly argued that the Croatian Parliament is passing laws that allow criminal acts to be committed. That's an absolutely incorrect allegation. I don't know a single regulation that was passed and that would allow someone to commit a crime. And the third incorrect quote. The state doesn't make a deal, possibly the state can propose to the opposite party to make a deal because it's... The will in some sort of procedure of the other side. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74235	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74236	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has injured Article 209. I didn't say anything about bringing in criminal acts. I was saying we're making regulations where corruption can be created. It's an example of the Food Act, a regulation. That's not what I said. He can't say something I didn't say, and you're here. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74237	On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go. ... How long is it or how long has it been? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no rest while the renovation takes place. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you gonna do? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It doesn't matter what color the cat is, it's important to hunt mice. ... We've already found her. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74238	Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking here about the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office, but in some ways he has the right of fellow Kovacevic, because when we talk about this, we are actually thinking about the whole rule of law mechanism, because it somehow stems from our desire to achieve and come from the whole matter offered by the State's Attorney's Office's report. I'll start by saying a few things that I think should be supported by this report and that the trend in the work of the State's Attorney's office lately not only in this year to which it relates, is improving. I'll say a few of the following formulas. It seems to us that in recent times the State Attorney's Office has shown more attention in protecting the legality and persecution of perpetrators of criminal acts, which is, of course, a false and important trend. The other thing is that one thing is recognized as one consistency to treat all the perpetrators equally. The third thing is, there is a connection with other bodies involved in this, and on this line of cross-border cooperation, which I think is important for a joint appearance, and this is still important because a joint performance in the results that the State's Attorney is responsible for is all the necessary. Therefore, if we take this as an effort both as a trend and as a result, then the State Attorney's Office deserves support for the issue of this report. Now, the public always when we talk about the work of the State's Attorney's Office, and in that framework that I mentioned at the outset, the public is always interested in the question of what is the degree of protection of the law and the exercise of justice, and also in this domain for which the State's Attorney's Office is responsible. I'm going back to what the degree of rule of law is, regardless of what the State's Attorney's office is responsible for, some of it is being held up by other authorities, and some of it is being answered by us in this House, but that seems to be a related story to me. And now that we come from that question, then I have some observations that are somewhat negative, not only on the basis of the impression of which Mr. Bajic spoke, and of course we often focus on the basis of impressions, so both on the basis of impressions and on the basis of some facts, it seems to us that in the work and appreciate that in the work of the State's Attorney's Office there is something like that, old technology. The old technologies, and in assessing and assessing the facts and evidence and old technology in that momentum that I would say, are subject to public opinion and when it is wrong because what it is really about. In order for the law to be implemented and justice to be done, they are important, I'm going to cut it short, three elements are important. The first is independence of influence. This applies to both the attorney's office and the courts and to all the organs in this branch. So independence of influence, professional competence and human courage. Of course, that's hard to reach. It's hard to achieve excellence here, but we have to keep it in mind as a pursuit and as a goal. It's our belief, and it's our assessment that we're still far from it. It's about whether a fair relationship with facts is achieved and whether it's a fair decision to make. Here in the report, it was mentioned here earlier, in cases where the State's Attorney's Office performs as a prosecutor, the success of 80 or 80 and some percent of the success has been achieved. Of course, we don't want to argue with that. But there are two things that, or one thing that is attractive, publicly attractive. I assess the state of criminal policy or success in what is called criminal policy in society. There are two elements. One thing is, as we're wrestling with large-scale capital, with major crime, maybe even this other one can work. How we fight big crime and how we fight war crimes. It's two of the most attractive things, it seems to me that you can say the crucial things about how many states show their teeth by wanting to apply the law. Wanting justice done. It seems to me that we have quite a number of people I would even dare say if you also want quotes too many people who don't have this integrity that I mentioned earlier, independence of influence, professional competence and human courage to make a decision and stand behind it. That's where I'm gonna say the next thing, maybe I'm wrong, but on these big issues, major crime and war crimes there's too much corruption in the charge and there's too much grounding on thin evidence. It is, it is difficult to be in the position of Mr. Bajic and his people, I am aware of it, you know, but with this understanding that I express both in relation to man and in relation to the task that man has and his people, we must evaluate it in this way. What about the charges and how we treat evidence, is if I can say sin in the State's Attorney's Office. There's one sin in the courts because it's connected. There's a lot of judgments, you're witnessing it, and in the paper we find judgments and arguments specifically that cause public comments, sometimes laughter. Such important institutions as courts should not allow that. And I, maybe I'm a little overly critical about it, but I'm saying it because we need to see what's going on with the authorities that are responsible for doing justice so we can see right behind it what we're doing, what our merit is in it, what assessment we deserve and what inspiration we send from this House to form social consciousness by giving people support. I'm going here on this example, I'm going to say two examples, I have an illustration that concerns me very much, so here I'm going to share it with you, not because I'm drawing big conclusions from it, but human beings deserve attention, if I may say so. In a war crimes trial, I need to say the next thing. Criminals should be prosecuted without a pardon. No pardons. And there are laws to be implemented without a pardon. I also mention this because I have noticed that Mr. Bajic, for example, has such an attitude because he has gained the strength and courage and competence and determination to qualify something as the evidence deserves. And I'm mentioning it because over it I have a need to say good for it. Now, right now, I'm adding something that I called a carnival illustration. So I'll give you the basics. I have a solution to the General Court in Karlovac to determine the fact of death. And that solution says that one Daniela, fourteen years old, died on October 5, '91. There are no other documents and such a solution was brought by the court, it... Now, in the explanation it says that same solution below, it says the short, family at the table, shooting at the front door, the broken door, the bomb, the intrusion, the housemates, the famous person who is now dying one man, wounding this little one who dies at 13:30, the murdered father and aunt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I won't go any further. The court decided that the girl died, which then turns out to be a natural death. This entire event that the witnesses described in the courtroom remained neglected. I'm not going to talk about who did it, although it says who and what happened to him, although I hear I also know what happened, but I'm not interested in that right now. I'm interested in him as a man. Here in this place, I'm interested in the attitude to this qualification, this kind of procedure and this kind of event. And I won't commit, I just needed to share it with you. The other thing I need to say to Mr. Bajic, of course, is easier nature, not this crime, as I was saying. This thing is mentioned today, the damages to the state's responsibility are going according to procedure to apply to the State's attorney's office for a settlement. I haven't noticed here in the report what the results are, you've been saying something today, but, by chance, you've explained it, but there's not how many total demands, what are the answers to those demands. I'm interested in it now through the next thing. I've concluded, you most often have an answer over not to answer. So, silence. You either have rejection or acceptance almost gone. You just said yourself there's no money, so of course you respect your gauges where you can move. From the point of view of a man who seeks compensation it somehow comes as this does not respond, it is a process buy time in which a man should get some answers or be compensated for that damage. The ultimate result, if I can link it to that explanation of yours, is that the state ends up paying for it, but in a slightly more expensive amount of what it is, which I think is a shame. Therefore, I think that this item should have a more serious conversation, have a more serious position in which the State's Attorney's Office and there should support you get the authority to make deals because it is ultimately cheaper for the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74239	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74240	Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. This report as it says and the state's attorney himself has established an indicator as well as previous years and this report is probably in a formal sense a quality report. It is probably also a correct report on the work of the State Attorney's Office, but that area, which in some ways highlights this Report, which is the state of crime, the capacity of society, or the state to protect state interests with this crime, is more or less the same as it was in previous years. If you look at the indicators of this report, so that's what the state's attorney himself claims, they're more or less the same, more or less the same state of crime, different types of parts are almost from year to year the same last few years, the number of cases transferred is more or less the same so that the thing is such that if we want to move forward with regard to the processing of these parts not claiming of course that there is the main responsibility of the State's Attorney's office then we should have the strength to take some step forward. In this sense, this report is interesting and interesting because it says it paints more than any other report submitted to this House, the overall state of crime, abuse, protection of state interests and the possibility of dealing with this crime. There is no such report here in the Croatian Parliament, so the report on the work of the courts, the report on the work of the police, none so fully showing the state of things in that important segment of the state. Here in this Report is mainly based on statistics. I'm a great supporter of statistics and statistics is powerful. If it is affected it can paint life, if it is not affected or if it is not deliberately affected it can be greatly deformed, i.e. to distort the image, but I think this area is one of the most difficult areas, the most complicated and the most complicated in terms of statistical processing, and it is said that, how many crimes are processed, etc., and of course from crime to crime, from minor crimes where you can directly file charges to those long-term years in which it participates, I don't know how many garbs of which all state bodies, between these crimes and their effects on society, is a huge difference, and that's why... Statistics absolutely unread here in this section, in this kind of report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, it is said that from the previous year 12 thousand were transferred when it comes to criminal acts, 12 thousand 645 crimes, and 12,985 crimes were entrusted to other state bodies, on checks by other state bodies. So it doesn't matter what 60,000 crimes are being solved, but it matters these 12,000, these 12,000 that are being transferred from the previous year and these 12,000 that are being given to the other bodies for verification. These are the most serious crimes, the most difficult for processing or the most difficult for their qualifications, and these are the crimes in which they should obviously be monitored in particular, and these are crimes I assume they are, even if it is so explicitly not, the crimes of economic crime, organised crime and corruption. These acts for which our society, our state, has the least ability to process these crimes and which are probably more than other crimes that violate the overall social life. And that's the bitter apple of this report because about the state of these crimes, about how the processes of their resolution are going on, where the difficulties are, which is possibly the role of the State's attorneyship in these acts, what is the role of other bodies, police, courts, the quality of the laws that are being passed. The intelligence system is not mentioned here, and it should finally begin to play a role in such a type of crime, not in the intimate life of politicians and public figures. That's not what you're talking about here. So I'm not talking about that kind of state of affairs being responsible for the State's Attorney's Office, it's hard to argue, but things obviously aren't what they should be. From year to year, the same number, a large number of criminal offences, and these are the crimes apparently carried out by the investigation for several years. It's a good thing the State's Attorney's Office decided to follow up a few years ago, especially to monitor those crimes that have been processed in the State's Attorney's Office for more than six years, but imagine what that means for six years. Shouldn't we also follow this up in detail and in particular report to this House because that part of the report would be far more important than this dutiful statistical report, which is with these works. What kind of crime has been in the state's attorney's office for over a year, not six years? Three months would be a great deadline if it were an average for all crimes, and even a year for the most serious crimes is not a long time if for that year the crime is well processed, well prepared for the court to properly prosecute, but the crimes which, according to the State's Attorney's Office, for several years, six years or more are likely those crimes that have the most serious and worst impact on the overall security of society, on crime, on the protection of public interests and on those acts would be necessary in the coming reports to pay particular attention and to try to make these statistics that are more or less uniform for all types of crimes that are particularly concerned with this type of crime. I repeat, organized crime, corruption and economic crime, so where obviously our mechanisms we have, we repeat probably bad laws, poor police work, inadequate work of the State's attorney, even worse work of the courts, it's obvious that if those crimes are not able to be prosecuted and if they last for years and that you don't really know what they're about and almost never do you get justice for these crimes. One case of the inability of our society and our country to prosecute such crimes is the latest cases of Petrac and sons and Zagorec and son. So should one process that led to the abduction of one citizen's son be turned into an examination of the origins of one another just the father of the kidnapped son as if there were not enough cause and reason before. As an ordinary citizen, and perhaps more than that, I know the basis of what I did in public life was enough encouragement. Just press reports on wealth, paintings, etc., that this case is being processed for the past five years, but maybe ten years. For 10 years we have been reading in Croatia continuously from year to year, cyclically from month to month, about what property and wealth General Zagorec is to reopen this case. I'm not saying, of course, that's the influence of the State's Attorney's Office, it's to the most extent the influence of the media, but that the State's Attorney's Office is based on what's been published so far on official duty has not been able to determine what's going on and then condemn this man or to charge him or release him if that's not true. That says things aren't going well. I can't put that responsibility on the State's Attorney's Office again, but I can put responsibility on all those mechanisms that the state has which should and should not obviously be able to process that kind of crime, which is, of course, just one example. There's probably an infinite number of cases of economic crime that are hard to deal with, at all, with the basis of our laws and equally organised crime, corruption, which, of course, Mr. Attorney himself was talking about here. What is particularly interesting is the issue of representing the Republic of Croatia and it is a rather devastating fact which may not be so alarming, is not a matter of security but is speaking about the state of our state administration. About how we all actually refer to state property together, and that is the failure of the State's Attorney's Office, which, of course, means a complete judicial system in protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia when it is sued. The total weight of those works and those where she's sued and where she sues is somewhere around 15 billion kuna. It is huge money, but the State's Attorney's Office is only able to get 13% of all the processes in which the Republic of Croatia is sued for actually talking about the very irresponsible and poor state of state administration. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, state employees mostly sue the state and in a large number of cases 3:1 receive these processes. This means that the state, that state officials responsible people, officials, are irresponsiblely misrepresented to their tasks and thus damage the state. And of course if they're bad laws, if it's bad behavior, then the State's Attorney's office can't do much. Therefore, this 13% of the successful defences of the Republic of Croatia in those cases where the defendant is not yet saying anything about the State's Attorney's Office but giving a very bad picture and giving a very negative and unfavourable response to the overall ability of the state to defend itself or the situation in which the state, or its officials, its institutions, are creating such obligations in which the Republic of Croatia loses a great deal of money. Speaking of corruption, of course it can't be just a matter of State's Attorney's office, I repeat. It is here to discuss the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption and Action Plan, so I would remind myself of the role of the Croatian Parliament. The previous National Programme with Action Plan was adopted in 2003. Under the action plan, the Parliamentary Commission for the Monitoring of the Programme should be set up. This commission has not been established for 3 years, it is now established on Friday in one radical way so that the ruling majority has decided what the opposition is. She broke the decision of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament disabling itself. I do not want to get into whether the representatives of the Croatian party are rights which there is no opposition here or not but are the least invited to do so by the parliamentary majority. So we went the wrong way into forming a body to fight corruption. We said in the national programme and in the rulebook that we brought in that it was a representative of the opposition and then the parliamentary majority decided what it was and who the opposition was. The third party in force in this Parliament that should belong because the opposition party is the first and already has one leading man in the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest there are no members in either of these two committees and if we are going to treat it this way, then a thousand good reports from the State's Attorney's Office will not help us. And finally one positive fact that differs from the others. I think it's a positive fact and it's an increase in the number of crimes in terms of domestic violence. I believe that this is not the fruit of having more crimes and more violence in the family, that would be a devastating, almost difficult to bearable fact than the obvious fruit of the fact that perception of what Mr. State's attorney said in that sense is different and that's good. The crime has increased dramatically, hence the processing by the State's Attorney's Office in 2004 to 2003 and the increase continued in 2005. It is obviously the fruit of the rise in perception of our citizens and then the ability of our bodies to process the crime and, of course, it should be welcomed. It's over. The club of HNS representatives will accept this report but since the picture of the overall state of protection against crime and the protection of state interests has not changed for several years we have no special reason for enthusiasm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74241	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time for the individual hearing has expired. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74242	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, it's usually higher than the ghost of a Rules of Procedure, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74243	What article of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74244	209. ... 214 to work until 1900 hours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's 7:00, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74245	I give you a warning, you abuse a plate of violation of the Rules of Procedure's instrument, and this is the thousandth time we've worked for over seven hours. Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74246	It's not good, Mr. Vice President, but it's what it is. Dear Vice President, Mr. State's Attorney, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! There are no Kovacevics here to tell him that it is true that in 2000 Vodnjan municipality sold 100 hectares down in Barbariga Dragoneri but it should also be kept in mind that this land was assessed by the court witch, that this assessment was accepted by financial institutions and that it was done in a public competition. Now, there's an investment... By 2008, the most representative tourist resort in Croatia will be built in the area, investment is 250m euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only from VAT will the state earn around 50m euros times seven and a half, which is about 380m kuna, which will say that the Croatian Parliament will be able to work for three, four years only on the basis of this investment and pay 152 parliamentary payers. Finally, that space was urbanized there before that. Before that, construction of some 10,000 units was planned, now four and a half, etc. But similar things happened even though I don't think they should have sold them both in Rijeka and Zadar, and in Dubrovnik, and in Hvar, and in Brač and where not everything. But let's move on. Today, MPs have received a very interesting material of the Euroherc case, and my only objection to the Euroherc gentlemen is that they did not follow the election as an SDP and IDS, I recommend that in the future. We received 100 thousand kunas from our home in time, but we also made an orderly note, challenged him in Poreč in a book at 250 hectares and opened the Liburni case. But let's let it go now. In the State's Attorney's Office we see 76 state attorneys and 492 deputy state attorneys. 95,000 157 criminal charges against known and unknown perpetrators were received in 2005. This should also be added to 194 thousand and 701 items from the civil-government domain as many as 2005. The State's Attorney's Office has been working on the new items of 114 thousand 848. So 194,000 plus that 95 grand, that's 298 thousand 858 items. If we divide it by 568, how many state attorneys, or these deputies, etc. It's about 510 items per person, or if we share that number with both counselors and trainees it's about 396 items per person. So let's divide it by, say, 250 working days, and we come in here every employee to get rid of 1.58 objects in that way. So that's how much we do. But first, I want to touch this information on page one, page one. The total amount of claims for which the citizens are suing the Croatian state here is shown by a number of 14 million 958 thousand 296 kuna. But these days here in the assembly, there's always controversy about as many as 10 billion kunas that citizens are suing the state for, exactly 10 billion 310 thousand, 310 million 371 million 500 kuna. It's somewhere in the 2 billion dollars circus and the state is suing means citizens for 3 billion 24 million 810 thousand and 800 kuna. That would be $550 million somewhere. Or out of those 13 billion kunas, 22.7% refers to the state as a prosecutor and 72.3% means the defendant. Of these, 3 billion kuna refers to labour disputes that are being conducted because the former government is, in fact, not present or not in compliance with collective agreements. A whole series of disputes are being held before 2000 and some in the 1980s, so for example, the recent town of Rovinj lost neither guilty nor due dispute over the behaviour of some employees involved in the then intelligence community in the 1980s. I think the city's register is relieved for a million-and-a-half kuna circus. This year, the Ministry of Finance reserved 400 million kunas for the state and, realistically, out of those 10 billion kunas required by the state state, the brother would lose 60% sooner or later. That's six billion kuna. Clearly, the judiciary sees it far more prompt when the state sues the debtor than the other way around, but that's one huge problem that none of us has an answer to, as well as the fact that in bankruptcy proceedings for the state, there's still one billion kunas not charged. But I don't want to talk about it now. I want in one brilliant decision of the summit that the conversion and privatisation have fulfilled the purpose, which could have been heard two or three weeks ago at the state summit. It is true that it was a criminal response, as Mr. Bajic repeated repeatedly in public nine people. That's just funny. It is also true that recently Mr. Ante Samodol Director of HANFA in Rovinj a few days ago, it seems to me that it was last week, at the Conferences of the Zagreb Stock Exchange de facto gave a political programme to those who in this way came to property through a sentence that "no one will ever ask anyone for the first million dollars earned but for all others because it is past the time of non-transparent trade". In this way he spoke in his own time clear Onasis, not those who had to monitor him but it was another time, it was another country and everything that makes up the top of Croatian politics, the state's attorney's office, etc. I feel like she just kind of wants to rehabilitate what happened in the 1990s. In the end, marginals suffer again, and the worst among us becomes untouchable pillars of society. In this country someone can still be tried for bribes, for a thousand 800, two thousand kuna, but that turns out to be the height of the fight against crime. It's my fault there's no Mr. Radosh here who mentioned Mr. Zagorec's case. But what to say in this particular case down there is that she passed a grandmother with cookies. It has been more than 10 years, absolute deadlines have come, no more criminal responsibility, possibly possible for someone, under quotes, "to confiscate" property, but there will probably be nothing of it all. So on these fine items that are under way today we are trying to like the European bureaucrats who have begun to determine us and what in this country will be tried, which shipbuilding site will have to go into bankruptcy, which will be privatised, how many of our soldiers will go to Afghanistan, what will look like this Law on political parties, I am saying this and in the context of the fact that this head of the Venice Commission who was before, say, 20 days ago, in Zagreb was down here in the assembly so that he would be ashamed not to pass the law that foreign governments can finance our parties which is simply unacceptable to me as if any party in Croatia had funded a party in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But interestingly, no one in this Europe is asking for a revision of the conversion, especially not the banks that are all in their hands, no one is asking for the privatisation of INA, parts of the media, Croatia, for example telecommunications, which are also taken over by foreigners, and through them is clearly taken over by foreigners and a good part of Croatian sovereignty. Here I think that among other things there is a problem of decomposition in Croatia or in Croatian society. It is not the only problem, but there begins the genealogy of many Croatian problems which, among other things, led to the fact that in some ways our judiciary depends on politics, but as time goes on, I argue that it will be more and more dependent on capital. I'm glad to say on page 31, 37, 81 you're speaking to Mr. State's Attorney about bribery. 76 people have been reported. In 11 cases, the application was dismissed, resulting in 33 convictions, so that 10 people were sentenced to prison, one to fines, and 22 are suspended sentences. And that's about it. And everyone says this country is not corrupt. I clearly don't mean the Parliament, we decide what we decide, almost nothing, which is our position you know, but outside of this House of Public Enterprises through our shipyards where money washes everything at sixteen, so in Europe, the term commission has been called roofing, through the administration of these large systems, and also by the judiciary, football, sports, NGOs, some parties, etc. You don't have to waste a word at all. Without a pardon, Mr. Gajica said there was a war crime to be prosecuted. It's clear you need to pursue bribes. But let us also wonder how effective everything here is. I don't think anyone should be in this country, I don't think anyone should be chased for one bottle of wine or for 10 lkg of coffee if someone gives it to someone after surgery or at the time I don't know any other such or similar, under quotes, "rabo." How is it possible, gentlemen, for MPs, no matter how many of you there are seven or eight of you, and soon there will be no me in this assembly that the former director, let's say the USKOK, while working for the state is being chased by the Zagreb underworld, and the second day after the work is stopped, the defence of these same people. It's like that boatbuilding commission they called roofing in Europe. It's one of the hypocrisis that's going to end up being paid for, I don't know, by a doctor who took a bribe, and he's going to answer, so if he saved my father, too. In the end, some port captains will pay, or someone like I said, before he got 10 lbs of coffee to betray someone, for example. ZK excerpt. The problem here is huge, but it is my impression that those who shout against corruption are often the last to talk about it in this country. Maybe we should just say a word here about Annex G, i.e. The ex-SFRJ succession, which says 29% in 2005 in lawsuits against persons from Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. third countries which are invited to Annex G and seek to register ownership rights and surrender to the property of those properties. The attorney's office considers it necessary to conclude between Zagreb and Belgrade a special contract, while you do not consider it to be, or consider that there is no possibility of implementing the Treaty of Succession. In nature, in my court, maybe it's not exactly like that. Let's say Mr. Strok buys Serbian resorts. The state sells real estate to third parties, all in the deal clearly with the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The owners of big companies do what they do. Some companies get their pumps back, I think INA, for example. Some of us are returning to the Vartex trade, but we think we're a joke, we'd say the Istrians, and we won't end up agreeing to the Sucession Agreement. We play in a way Slovenians who also want to pay foreign savings to Croatian citizens. The dispute is before the end, before the European Court of Justice. However, it should open the case not only so-called. Unsustained savings but also transferred savings, which are in addition to the 300 million marks, 300m euros today about cca another 600m euros, which the Croatian state has paid through the form of secured savings. In one word, I don't know about the end it's clear that the State's Attorney's office has a salary to make it more efficient. Clearly, he's not running a media link against any person. It must be autonomous, but there may be plenty more water for Sava before that happens. There must be a set of people in which I think, first of all, this Parliament, and then the Croatian public, will have 100% confidence. I claim that this trust exists at the top of the state's attorney's office, but in many colleagues, Mr. Bajic is certainly hard enough to put his hand in the fire. Everything in everything is as understandable as any time so far and this time this IDS report will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74247	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74248	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's the real shame that there are no government representatives here who should hear the debate on this report because the actual debate in this report is addressed to government representatives and at least to the State's Attorney's Office. But with this report, the State's Attorney's Office wants to show us what it was and how much it worked in 2005 but it should also give us a picture of the state of security. What we will immediately see is the decline in criminal charges compared to the year 2004 of 2%. We do not know if we should read from this data that Croatia is recording a fall in crime and a rise in security. Unfortunately, such a conclusion would not fit the facts. Such a conclusion would be denied almost daily robberies, muggings, jacks, domestic violence, increased supply of intoxicating drugs, bribery and corruption. We have cars flying into the air. In just a year after corruption on the country scale, we fell 20 places. That's enough to indicate that the suppression of this evil must come very seriously. Data from the report do not show such seriousness and responsibility. 41 people were reported to receive bribes, down from the previous year. This information would say we don't really live in a corrupt country. The general perception is very different, which indicates that the problem the competent one is dealing with in failure. Judges and bankruptcy managers and customs officials, police officers, municipality chiefs, municipal councillors were also reported to receive bribes. So, corruption has affected every pore of this society. Thirty-three convictions have been handed down, including 22 sentencing sentences and one on fines. Simplified commentary. The capitalists have escaped the hands of justice and the petty way we in Slavonia say hens with mild penalties should serve to create the impression that the state is fighting bribery and corruption. The opinion on the determination of the current government in the fight against corruption was expressed by citizens on a TV show when the poll showed that 93% of citizens think it is supposed to take measures to combat corruption only pre-election folklore. The bribery and corruption are the biggest enemy and the impenetrable barricade of the country's economic progress. In that part, the system is the most unsuccessful. For the responsibility of the state for failure in this area, it is not a very small number of applications. Let's ask ourselves why there's no application? So the application is not due to citizens' lack of confidence in the functioning of the rule of law. That mistrust was created based on experience. With confidence, civil courage will come. Trust needs to be earned, and there's no way to win a bianco. The perception of the public is an important step up with the number of applications. The inefficiencies of state bodies and institutions in the fight against corruption encourages the urge to bring about significant material resources, assets and wealth through an unfair lifestyle. Corruption threatens the rule of law, trust in public institutions, it endangers the rule of law. Furthermore, in Croatia, the procedures of El Dorado were obtained for an individual, the end of the world for workers. A number of amendments to the law have been made to find mechanisms to prevent the crime and immorality that were happening there. 5 persons have been reported for the criminal offence of bankruptcy proceedings and the applications have been rejected. Such examples are not encouraging to create trust in the rule of law. Crimes related to drug abuse have shown an increase in the number of applications. Nevertheless, we cannot say that we are successfully dealing with this problem. On the drug market, there's more and more, which means the offer's getting bigger and there's an increase in consummation with it. The impression is that we are also being exhausted here in the detection of insignificant crimes while organisers and serious dealers are skillfully avoiding the police. In the case of Korchula, we've seen that police organizers and dealers instead of in custody lead to coffee. With that kind of service our police are lucky the cops didn't end up locked up in the bathroom, but that's why the suspect was able to escape through the toilet. Whether these large fish are so skilled at covering their tracks or by corrupting those who need to pursue them for themselves, they have created a secure environment. Most likely they have their protectors in both the police and the State's Attorney's office and the judicial authority. And while it's so unsuccessful, we're going to fight the abuse of intoxicating drugs. In 2005, state attorneys also acted in bankruptcy cases. In bankruptcy proceedings, 447 million 388 thousand state claims were reported, mostly or specifically 407 million kuna 558 thousand in claims made by the Ministry of Finance, which relate to unpaid taxes and contributions. It's an application in 2005. If we keep in mind that 683 million kunas in purchase were reported in 2004, optimism had to occur, but that optimism only lasts until the next verse when the attorney's office reports that, from the coming years, there remained a billion kuna in bankruptcy proceedings. It's not a mistake, it's almost two billion kunas of outstanding claims. Of course, we have to ask what are the reasons why the payment in the bankruptcy proceedings is so weak. The reason is the ineligible launch of bankruptcy proceedings. The state's attorney's office says the budget has not provided the funds for the payment of advances for the costs of the previous procedure. Does this mean that in this country, authorities can't count? By not providing insignificant resources, the state loses nearly 2 billion kuna. It is certain that this is not how good masters behave. Despite this, when we debated the proposals of the bankruptcy law and its amendments, we pointed out that the amount of advance costs prevented the timely initiation of the procedure, the Government remained unwavering in its ideas, although the budget was both a loser and losers were citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What else do we see from the State's Attorney's Office report? The state's attorney himself says: during 2005, there was still too little available for agricultural land owned by the state. For us in the Croatian Peasant Party this is an alarming data. The process of making available was initiated by the 2001 Agricultural Land Act and the criteria and criteria for the availability of agricultural land. The aim of the law was to create the preconditions for the creation and functioning of family economies as the basic holders of agricultural production from agricultural land. This is a prerequisite for adapting Croatia's village and peasants to the European Union to which we so seek. Unfortunately, the new government didn't recognize that need. The process of the availability and creation of family economies... What? ... family economies have been stopped and such a policy has caused the vast majority of peasants to fail by entering the European Union and become social cases and the problem of the state. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But not just that. Such a policy comes and will lead to the emigration of the rural population, and Croatia's life will be brought to life in all four cities. Is that the goal of this ruling coalition policy? It all points out that it is, but it is fair to say that to the inhabitants of our villages so as not to experience the fate of the last Mojikans on the defender of national traditions and culture which makes us as a people spiritually rich, and compared to others specific. The government even signed an agreement with farmers' associations whose basic requirement was to speed up the privatisation process for agricultural land. The peasants have obviously been double-crossed. Instead of a socially fair family economy system through concessions, this government creates two percent of the rich, and the rest will be their superiors and only if they are lucky. These aren't objections to the State's Attorney's Office. These are objections to the government, and the attorney's office can accept criticism over impeccable opinion on contracts. Now they assure us that's what they're up to. So I can be up-to-date when there are no more contracts for the sale of agricultural land. Furthermore, one of the most important jobs in the work of civil and administrative departments of state attorneys is the recording of the rights of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on real estate. The register of ownership rights is of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia as a whole. Given the importance, it is unimaginable that the state has no registered property on its property. We can tell from the report that there isn't. There's not even a record of state-owned real estate. And state attorneys in the collection of legally relevant documents and data have exactly in state and other bodies that use or own real estate or keep records of them, there are problems in them. The problem is also in the lack of funds for the production of parcels, land identification, etc. Since the principle of trust in land books has been applied since 1 January 2007, it is unclear how and how the state will protect the property in its possession because it will not be registered as owner until then. In view of the value of these properties, it is hard to believe that it is purely negligence of the public authorities. In the mid-1990s, businesses are divided into political electors who have made a personal fortune in the donation, and most have poored. Are we wondering if we now have the gift of political electors worth real estate? We ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the conditions for the registration of ownership in the next 60 days only. The deadline is too short and delaying the application of the principle of trust in the land book is to stop entrepreneurship as a way of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. It is noted that there is no record of the general goods concerned by the Republic of Croatia, as regards public roads and maritime well-being. Without the book, there is no protection of extremely valuable coastal property, sea, island and forest, agricultural land, natural resources, environmental protection. It is only possible to make the book a transparent way of making real estate available. If the government doesn't secure the conditions for the book, it gives us proof that it does not want the transparency of real estate availability. Intransparency, therefore, with no eyes to the public, various debts can be paid back, expressed gratitude, and also provided grants and created by debtors who will have to be reimbursed to the government as a whole or to its individual officials. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party accepts this Report, however, by accepting the Report we do not in any way send a message of satisfaction with the situation in the Republic of Croatia, and this is exactly how it is read from the Report that is before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74249	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Slaven Letica, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74250	Honored Mr. President, I came here early this morning to report my power point presentation, I thought it would be a debate tomorrow morning, in fact I couldn't believe it after a big interview by the President of the Republic of Reuters who said that there was a political will in Croatia to finally deal with corruption, that this debate would take place now at eight o'clock in the empty assembly. I've been watching the attorney general all along, and I can guess what he's thinking. To do a report of 150 pages, to do your job seriously and to be placed in a position practically that there's an empty assembly is quite frustrating. I'm a university professor at the age of 30, 40. I'm lucky people come to my classes, but I watched the deep frustration of my colleagues when they came to class three, four people. That's why I asked the attorney general to give me a power point presentation at the attorney general's office. I've been working on this review of this report for about a month. When I finish a book "Corruption and Anti-Corruption Policy in Croatia", which I work with my son, it is one session of papers that will have about 450 pages. I did my best in that review to simply try to help the next reports be more quality and I'm sorry, Mr. President, I thought last week was just a bad day, it was Friday 13, and that your behavior that was undeniable was.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74251	You're scandalous. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74252	Don't insult Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74253	You're getting a warning. Here you go. You'll get another one, and you'll lose your warning by taking away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74254	President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74256	Please, when you take away my word at least call the Rules of Procedure. I said I attributed it to a mildly bad timing, but I see this provision of debate at this late hour as your personal obstruction of the position of the President of the Republic and the position of the Prime Minister who expressed their political will to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74257	Thank you very much. I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74258	I am asking for an indication of the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of your conduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-18-0.u74259	You do not have to de-polomize with the chairman against the decision on a tensile measure. Thank you very much. Further discussion. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. ... I'm not nervous at all. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That you can explain, you're a well-known explanation expert, especially for neurosis, nervousness and other similar psychosiss. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Chief Attorney, would you like a final review? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30, Annual report on the financial agency's business for 2005. The session was interrupted at 7:39 p.m. Annual report on the work of state attorneys in 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual report on the work of the national lawyers in 2005 is accepted. Please vote. The result? With 90 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion was accepted.
