ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64166	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all as well as Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record from the 19th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm confirming that we've adopted the minutes from the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I left out one point: The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Decorations and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, the first reading for the reason why the legislator pulled this point, this proposal pulled out of the procedure and simultaneously referred this bill to the procedure under emergency procedure. I included 12 new points in the final draft agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure. Second, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Tax on Oil Products with the final proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure. Third, Proposal for a Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products with the Final Bill, emergency procedure. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Census and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law confirming the basic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization on the establishment of technical and advisory cooperation, an emergency procedure. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Proposal for a law establishing the University of Pula, first reading. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and member so far and the appointment of a new president and member of the National Council for Higher Education. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the former and the appointment of a new member of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2005. I also included the proposal for a national anti-corruption strategy by the promoter of Vesna Škara-Ozbolt, following a legitimate objection from MP Vesna Škara-Ozbolt. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda referred to in points 3 to 14, item 19 and point 44, sets out the laws for which the adoption of an emergency procedure is proposed. These are: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profit. Proposal for a law amending the Special Tax Act on Oil Products. Proposal for a law on the oil and oil market. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on cooperation in prevention, in the field of prevention from natural and technical disasters and the removal of their consequences. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the instruments for pre-accession structural policy for the next measure. Rehabilitation of railway at Vinkovci-Tovarnik-state border for Vukovar-Srijem County, eastern Croatia. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the instruments for pre-accession structural policy for the next measure, the programme for water and waste water in Karlovac for the city of Karlovac, Karlovac County. Proposal for a law on the implementation system of the European Union programme and the system of financing projects from loans and gifts from other foreign sources. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal with the final proposal of the law. Proposal for a law on the certification of a fundamental agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organisation on the establishment of technical advisory cooperation with the final proposal for a law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act with the Final Proposal for a Law, Proposer Zeljko Pecek. I note that the laws set out in the final draft agenda under points 3 and 5 bear the P.Z.E. mark. , and on the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We don't vote on the rules of procedure. These are: Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax, P.Z.E. No. 477 and Proposal for a law on the market in oil and petroleum products, P.Z.E. No. 483. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64167	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, we have an objection to the application of the emergency procedure at point 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests with a final proposal for a law. We would like to remind by the Constitution that the problem of forest and forest land is of interest to the Republic of Croatia that it is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia. We would also like to remind that the new forest law was passed at the end of last year and entered into force and began to apply. We know the problem that wants to be regulated and is now trying to ensure that the Republic of Croatia is successful under certain conditions. However, the bill referred to in the procedure does not actually resolve conflicts of interest of the Republic of Croatia in one sphere compared to another. Because at the same time, for example, when decommissioning from forest land or forest, it does not determine which other land will be obtained and given in exchange for the fact that the same land fund, forest land, and forest cover could be maintained. This is why we think it is a very serious problem because it is a good of national interest and it is necessary to discuss this in two readings, so we propose that since this session will take a month for the debate to take place in the first reading, and then to refer the final draft of the law to the procedure in order to be able to resolve this issue seriously, we will see how this contradiction of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in a way that it is truly in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. Thank you very much. We suggest we remove the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64168	Thank you. Is there any other agent or representative who has objected to the proposed application of the emergency procedure? There isn't. I ask the Prime Minister or the Government's representative to point out this proposal of the SDP Representatives' Club on that matter. Here's the Prime Minister, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64169	I would suggest Mr. President if he agrees with the President of the Parliament to take off, but to go in two readings during this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64170	Okay. The application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Forests Act was then unanimously removed. Now we have to vote for the other 13 proposals, or 11 because these two aren't working out. Please, let's get on with it. What quorum? 86 MPs and MPs. We have a quorum. First. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the law on special taxes on petroleum products? Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 6 abstentions, 3 against, the emergency procedure was established. Second. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Delicacies and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 86 votes for, five abstentions, one against. An emergency procedure has been established. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes for, 3 abstentions and one against the adoption and application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Protection of Nuclear Material? Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 92 for one abstention and 2 against the determined application of the emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Poland on cooperation in the field of prevention of natural and technical disasters and the removal of their consequences. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes in favour and 4, the draft law has been incorporated into the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Memorandum Confirmation Act relating to the rehabilitation of the railway line on the Vinkovci – Tovarnik - state border for Vukovar-Srijem County. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 95 votes for, 3 abstentions and one against the adoption of an emergency procedure. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of rehabilitation aid for the water and waste water programme in Karlovac for the City of Karlovac and Karlovac County. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 93 for, 4 abstentions Adopted emergency procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the system of the European Union programme and the system of projects financed from loans and gifts from other foreign sources? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 95 for, 2 abstentions, an emergency procedure has been adopted. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal? Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 97 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Basic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Health Organization on the establishment of technical and advisory cooperation? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 95 for, 2 abstentions was adopted by emergency procedure. Amendments to the Law on the Forests go to another reading. Who is the representative Zeljko Pecek proposed to implement the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Water Economy Financing Act? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 44 for, 3 abstentions, 54 against. An emergency procedure has not been adopted. The written objection to the agenda I proposed with a call for the session was given by MP Vesna Škara Ozbolt. That objection is honorable. There were no other objections and the agenda was sent with a call for a session pursuant to Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Under point 15, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, was included. Under point 16 of the Law establishing a university in Pula was included, first reading. On point 17, a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and members so far has been included and on the appointment of a new president and member of the National Council for Higher Education. Under point 18, proposals for decisions on the resolution of the former and the appointment of a new member of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education have been included. Under point 42, a report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts was included in 2005. And under point 43, I guess a proposal of the National Strategy to combat corruption by the promoter Vesna Škara Ozbolt was included. Any of the MPs object to including any of these points in the agenda? There isn't. The agenda shall be determined by the ladies and gentlemen, even in accordance with Article 205(2). In order not to read the fully established agenda, I propose, if you agree, that I do not read but publish that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda with the amendments set out. Thank you. We will vote on the amendment and addition of the Law on Features and Recognitions next week until some views on one article of the law agree. I'm interrupting the session. We continue on Wednesday with item 11 and beyond all those conventions. SESSION Interrupted at 3:30 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64173	Dear Mr. President, the club of HSP representatives has an objection to the inclusion in the agenda, and in particular to the inclusion in the urgent procedure of the Law on the Confirmation of the Energy Community Treaty. It is actually a contract that violates the energy sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. We're asking that it be removed from the agenda, especially if it's not an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64174	Okay. Please vote. Whoever's for use, let's get involved. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure under this Law on the Completion of the Holidays Act? Let's get on with it. Let's go vote. The result? 79 for, 7 abstentions, 5 against. So he's going to an emergency procedure. The second on this proposal for an energy community that objected to the urgency of the procedure was put by representative Tonci Tadic. Please, let's get on with it. First we have to vote for an emergency procedure. The result? With 63 for, 8 abstentions and 18 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, are any of the representatives objecting to the inclusion in the agenda of the other two points? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday, we will continue to discuss the proposal for a bill on the election of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb. And tomorrow I ask all MPs and MPs to be at the 10 o'clock ceremony for the anniversary of the referendum from May 19, 1991. The session was interrupted at 18.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64177	... On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, we are asking for the removal of urgency from the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States in cooperation to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction of systems and its delivery and materials related to it, by sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, who signed this on behalf of Croatia, I don't know what he had in mind when he signed it, and what does that mean for Croatian boaters and everything else? If you've read the content, we're asking for a download of the urgency of the procedure. After all, a very small number of countries have signed such a contract with the United States. That means they can stop the ship wherever they want, do whatever they want, and let us know within four hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64178	Any further objections to the emergency procedure? No, I don't. Please determine the quorum. The result? 80 are present. So we have a quorum. We're going to the vote. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Korea on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income and property tax. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes in favour and one abstention and 3 against and this bill is going to the agenda in an emergency procedure. The second is the proposal for a law objecting by the HSP Club to go through an emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation and the prevention of the spread of weapons of mass destruction of the system and its, its delivery and its materials related to this maritime route. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 votes for and 1 abstentions and 18 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points of this other three points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. And now I interrupt the session and schedule a session Tuesday 6 June with the agenda, with the National Health Development Strategy proposal 2006-2011. I ask the committee's parent president to convene a session of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health on Monday to discuss this strategy. We expect the government to come with a proposal of four laws on which a previous debate was held to come with the proposals of these laws in the first reading in the coming week to discuss these laws as well. After this debate Tuesday on the National Health Development Strategy proposal, we would like to discuss the Final Proposal for the Law on Sports, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, the Proposal for a Law on Theatres and the Security and Intelligence System Act. Thank you very much. Continuing Tuesday 6 June at 9.30 p.m. The session was interrupted at 1551 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm giving the question to Mr. Prime Minister. Recently, the government proposed, and the parliament accepted the National Programme for Preventing Corruption. It contains preventing corruption in politics and authorities in the last place. These are the current affairs "Brodosplit" and "Shimatsu", "The tobacco factory Zagreb" in which the public sees corruption in politics and government. The state's attorney's office has launched an investigation into Brodosplit and the shipyard. The chairman of the Supervisory Board is Minister Vukelic, and the vice president of both companies was Sinisa Poljak, who was also the HDZ organisational secretary in charge of the organisation of finances. It was recently removed to both supervisory committees and from the post of HDZ secretary. In the Shimatzu affair, 7 medical procurement tenders are tailored to one manufacturer, and the State's Attorney's office has not started the investigation yet, according to my knowledge. A thorough investigation into these two cases could easily lead to the HDZ Treasury. Therefore, the question to the prime minister is whether you intend to insist on a thorough investigation in both cases to determine whether or not they are related to the HDZ treasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64182	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64183	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here we see how this is about a nice replacement of thesis. First of all, those who watched last week's show, including several representatives or one representative when it comes to the tobacco affair of the shipyard, received the Croatian public's word. The Croatian public questioned whether it was a crime or a political shootout, it voted about 70:30 that it was a political reckoning. The chairman of the Supervisory Board, that's what it was, I mean it was a public justice. Of course, I insist, however, that a detailed investigation be carried out around everyone, when it comes to all the contracts that were made at Split Shipyard. But what I do know as the man who was born in Split and followed the shipyard and the square of Split is that for the first time today the administration that was set has positive results. Ships were delivered for which no penalty was to be paid. The previous administration and all previous administrations from communism until recently paid for their penalties, which is why they made harmful contracts. The key to Croatian shipbuilding is in contracts. So if you go into contracts that are good, that use businesses, then it bothers the predecessors and assumes, I can't say that those predecessors raised anonymously, reported anonymously because there's still no criminal application raised, please insist on it, but there's a lot more of this stuff. Anyone in Croatia can be accused, defiled, and then create an affair. I think we owe ourselves, tell ourselves it's not a good practice. And then Mrs. Advocacy, on the basis of this god-made affair, asks a representative's question. She's right about that. Let the public assess what it's about. What I insist is that I cannot insist because the State Attorney's Office is an independent body with the Constitution guaranteed an independent body, but what is in the interest of both the Croatian public and the shipyard Split and the "Simacua" to which Professor Hebrang answered X times, but regardless of all its answers that are quite valid regardless of their repeatedness, because the repetition can then create one image, create an affair. No matter what you say, it doesn't matter. And one more word about Rovinj tobacco factory, the tobacco factory Zagreb. The view of the Government is that the management of each company has the right to make business decisions as it considers useful for the company and we cannot interfere in the business decisions of the TDR or the Adris Group, but what we are going to insist on as a Government is that we must find an agreement with workers and therefore I believe that it is absolutely incorrect and contradictory and sound and public opinion decisions to cancel workers. I personally believe that workers of the Zagreb tobacco factory who have worked for many years on the welfare of the company deserve better treatment and I call from this pay phone in the Assembly once again on the Adriatic administration to sit down with the workers at the table and find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64184	Thank you. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64185	I must say that I am not at all satisfied with the answer, since my question was very specific. I asked if the prime minister was intending to insist on investigating to determine whether these affairs were related to HDZ's treasure. Television shows, perceptions, thesis replacements are completely irrelevant to my question. I'm asking a written answer, because really this is a skillful extraction from the answer... his friends, his associates, and the real answer to the Prime Minister's clear political will to deal with corruption, we don't. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64186	Thank you. The second question, honourable representative Marijan Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64187	Mr. Minister, what is the value and importance of introducing a child's health book for all children of the Republic of Croatia, and what are the advantages of monitoring the health status of school children based on a child's health book? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64188	Thank you. Minister of Health, Neven Ljubicic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Well, this is one more opportunity to actually say a few words about a major project, a project that has been practically existing for more than 20 years in most European Union countries, a project that has often been the unknowable dream of numerous pediatricians and specialists of school medicine in Croatia. Here about a few weeks ago, we presented a health book for children we called a birth certificate from birth to adulthood, one that shows clearly that Croatia is actually on track... European countries, but also highly developed countries in the world like the United States, Canada or Australia. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64190	Ladies and gentlemen, a little peace! Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64191	And those who listen to this, who are parents, I think they'll actually follow this with an absolutely positive attitude, because I repeat again this is a big step and it's worth listening to what this step is about. This booklet is composed of three parts, the first part relating to a preschool child, a booklet that will actually monitor the growth and development of a child, but that will actually allow all data to be stored in one place. This is important not only for children, their parents, but also for the entire system. For the first time Croatia will be able to compare to... The European Union, for example, will be able to see the condition of teeth in our children when they are 12 and children in the European Union or in the world. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] For the first time, we will be able to compare clearly not only the calendar of vaccinations that we have so far but also the state of neurorisk, the state of monitoring of different parameters that are covered in this booklet. What I'm saying is that this book is made up to 18 years old, so respecting a convention that determines practically that the child is defined by 18 years of age, and I have to admit that a concept like this has already received an extraordinary commendation from the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64192	Representative Marijan Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64193	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, happy with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64194	Representative Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are witnessing Mr. Prime Minister, an extremely difficult situation with the purchase of milk in Sisak-Moslavina County. Unfortunately, small producers are targeted by buyers, they don't want to buy, the problems are big. According to my information, this also seems to be spreading to the Ivanicgrad area. I got word this morning, but we have a firm promise from the ministry that they'll get involved and solve the problem with small producers. I want to ask a specific question and I would be happy if we could solve one question of one man today in this current hour. I think we have a chance for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64196	My colleague, just one moment, please. In the Croatian Parliament's secretariat under parliamentary questions
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64197	Give me some time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64198	Yeah, yeah. I'll hitchhike your time. The president of the HSS Club, Honored Representative Zeljko Pecek, indicates the following. At the current morning of the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be directed by representatives Bozidar Pankretić to the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader from the field of human rights, Mr Zeljko Pecek from the area of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64199	Thank you. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64200	I think something was... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64201	No, I haven't even asked the question yet, and we've interrupted...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64202	No, no, it's okay. I just saw that you indicated that the question would be asked from the area...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64203	What? I don't understand. Mr. President, I can, I'll tell you what question I'm asking. If it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64204	Yeah, yeah. Here you are, from the beginning, make time. From the beginning, you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64205	But I'm asking nicely, you shouldn't have interrupted me, Mr. President, because it's about human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64206	All right, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64207	If it's not a basic human right to work, then I have no right to ask this question. I'm asking the Prime Minister to listen. In villages that are part of the City of Glina live people who have returned to their hearths and want to deal with agricultural production, but are boasted by the city's power it makes it impossible. I was there to make sure of that. In particular, it is Marijan Grudenić from the village of Marin Brod. He owns a farm building project, he has a country, he needs a HABOR loan, but between his plot and the road there is a state country of 2 hectares. When he came there to solve only that problem they told him "you can't get it, you can get it in lease" in his entire project collapses. We think we made a deal. You were present when he was signed with the peasant organizations, that we would help resolve agricultural land. This is an indicator of how it makes it impossible for a man who, I would say, in an area where the conditions of management are difficult to prevent him, his human rights are being violated to allow him to do so. I believe that, Prime Minister, you can make your authority to solve this case and that a man who is capable of production, which is not in this area where we have to intervene, has 70 cows, we allow him to build his own facility. There are other cases in the Glynn municipality, the City of Glynn where no water has been brought to people. Well, I think there's a reason to intervene. That's my question to you, and it's about human rights, right to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64208	Thank you. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64209	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. First of all, when it comes to the purchase of milk, I have been very concerned about following in the past few days what is happening on that field and personally intervened in some companies, not to mention them now. Or, where we can intervene as a government, it's about KIM, but also about some others. And you have my word, and that is what Minister Cobankovic said in the Croatian public, in the next few days we will solve the purchase of milk for everyone. It's out of the question that we've encouraged people to go into production, and now I can't place that milk. Therefore, we will resolve the purchase of milk to everyone in the next few days and there will be no such crisis. Secondly, I'm asking you to give me this particular case that I don't know that you'll contact me after the Parliament session or give me the materials and we'll deal with it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64210	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64211	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. It doesn't matter if I'm satisfied. I believe that after this will be satisfied with the concrete people in Clay and here, you gave your word, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64212	Thank you. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64213	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, your mouth is full of child and family protection, you have announced the establishment of the Alimentation Fund from which you today do nothing, and now you are announcing legal penalties for parents who do not pay for the maintenance of their own children, although such legal possibility has existed for years and years in our criminal legislation. At the same time, you forgot to align the basis for calculating last year's alimony that needs to be monitored by an increase in living costs. Please tell me, what kind of state is this? Is this your concern for children and family in which the government at the same time writes millions and millions of kunas to powerful people, while at the same time doing some minor obligations for parents to the State's child benefits for prey, such as Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64214	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64215	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Madam Representative. First of all, I am not full of children being conceived as you say, but I am systematically a parliamentary representative and today, as Deputy Prime Minister, I am fighting for a better position for women, for a better family position and, of course, for a better position of children in the Republic of Croatia. I'm surprised to you that you are now talking about the extra charge, which is now mentioned child protection, which is you who, as a minister in the government, have voted in favour of reducing maternity benefits for three-year maternity leave for twin mothers, three or more children. You who decided that working mothers within 60 days must return to work after your decisions, not asking if they have kindergarten, whether they have children, if they have anyone to look after them and, of course, how they will live from a reduction in maternity benefits. That's what I'm surprised at, but, of course, I answer to you because I don't have the right to wonder but to work concretely. And this government has increased maternity benefits, restored the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave. It brings population policy, has made significant changes to the Law of Business to allow parents to get to the apartment as soon as possible. As far as the specific question is concerned, I have to say that there has been no blockade according to the IRS report, no blockades in the account of the persons you mention but simply it is a matter of waiting to determine the level of income for the last year to issue a new solution. This is done in all cases, including in this Zadarian and, of course, all those who have waited to determine the censorship will receive payments later as it always seems. Of course, we have provided enough money to pay extra payments for children, about 115 million kuna is paid monthly. Therefore, I would like to remind you in the end that it is entirely incorrect that these fees, i.e. child benefits, could be blocked or otherwise disabled due to the fact that, according to Article 140, they are being paid. The general tax law shall include that category in unfavourable transactions, in accordance with Article 140. A general tax law that I think you should know as a former justice minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64216	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64217	Mrs. Kosor, leave the trial to the poets, and your excess words please finally, and the lack of actions finally compensate for the concrete effects. It's true that I know that, but you gave me a warrant and it happened in Zadar because I personally spoke to this man that you're doing the minimum amount to.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64218	Peace, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64219	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64220	Order! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64221	... a warrant to suspend payment of the child's allowance. [[Specially enabled.]] And Mrs. Kosor, instead of paying irresponsible parents from your budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64222	Order, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64223	Full boarding house... You'd better give that money to their children, they're more likely to need it. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64224	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64225	Your Honor, Your Honor, the Prime Minister. I was going to ask Mr. Kirin my question, I don't know if he'll answer Mr. Buconjic or the prime minister. In the Republic of Croatia, it is free to use the signs and symbols of national minorities in the celebration of national minorities. The institutions, associations and minority councils with the symbols of the Republic of Croatia can highlight the signs and symbols of national minorities. Although this is regulated by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Special Laws of the Unit of Local Self-Government, they simply do not prescribe it to their statutes because they do not have to, there are no sanctions and responsibilities, and then the emphasis of the minority flag is declared by the emphasis of the foreign flag, police are acting under the Law on Disruption of Public Order and Peace these days in Daruvar. The flag of the Czech minority in the Republic of Croatia stands out since 1946 certainly with the state flags before the Republic of Croatia and Yugoslavia, now the Republic of Croatia, the flag is defined by the Statute of the Czech Union which has the consent of state institutions. It is also highlighted on April 30th at the time of the rise of the May coat of arms, which is a centuries-old tradition of Slavic peoples. She intervened with the police, requested the removal of the so-called. alien flags. It's sad that the police in charge don't know the minority mark in their town. Even more so, they call for the statute of the city that gives them the right to highlight symbols and signs only to minority councils on their premises, but at the same time the city does not give them that space which is both a violation of the Constitutional Law. Mr Secretary, what will you do against workers who do not respect and do not know the laws of the Republic of Croatia, violate minority rights and freedoms in an environment in which, because of the individual's will, national relations have already been violated, where another minority case is being opened in a national minority that has nothing to do with this?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64226	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64227	Since you asked a question either to me or to the secretary of state, I will answer. First of all, it should also be said that everything you have stated when it comes to legislation stands. In Croatia, by consensus of all political forces in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we have defined ourselves as a full protection of minority rights and have passed the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities, and in this sense Croatian legislation can indeed say that it belongs to the best European standards. Some EU member states do not have such good legislation when it comes to minority communities, but in practice in some cases, and there is obviously one such case, it still does not work. It's hard for me at this point to tell why certain members of the Ministry of the Interior reacted that way, if they reacted that way, and there's no reason why I don't trust you, but we're going to investigate that case. Otherwise, the Daruvar case is familiar to me and we will try therefore through cooperation with both the mayor and the political parties involved in both the government and the county and the city to solve the case for both Croatians and the Czechs there. They've lived together for a long time, there's never been a problem, there shouldn't be and there won't be any, I'll do anything to keep them out of the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64228	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, I agree with the fact that we have good laws, that, unfortunately, we don't do a lot of work in implementation, and we allow that because of the failure of the Central Office that was supposed to do this, we create cases that could damage us for many years. So I'd like to get a written answer and you to really get rid of this because it doesn't deserve the town of Daruvar to be a case, and especially not a Czech minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64229	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64230	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking my representative a question to Mr. Ivan Shuker, the Minister of Finance. Credits without guarantees, favourable bank credits, credit cards with and without guarantees, mortgage loans up to 2 000 euros for all employees and pensioners, quick realisation and simple procedure, closing existing wars and debts, minimum interest rates, monthly war over one third of the income, flexible credit-ability calculation, collaboration with leading financial institutions, reduce costs and close blacklists. This is part of the offer that is made on the ballots without the listed company or natural person... Only with mobile phone numbers distributed by Croatian citizens' mailboxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It looks like this. Or in the form of a resar hanging from lighting pillars, traffic signs, gutters, front door, especially in the city center, and it hangs like this, says the number and name, some Ivan and Valentini, Stjepan, right. I live in Pula and there's no phenomenon, and I didn't notice it in the river either, it might be that we're late for innovation. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, since we found the restrictions on our duties, i.e. the suspension of wages, only in the Executive Law and the Labour Act, is this phenomenon familiar to you, is it lawful that bidders are not legitimately legitimate as legal or physical persons, and what in this field do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64231	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64232	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Mr. Representative, I can only thank the Minister of Finance for one such question. The question raised by a number of human family traumas in recent years in the Republic of Croatia, but in order to give you concrete answers, we must first of all define who at this time can receive loans. According to the Law on Banks, citizens can assign banks and the Savings Act to their savings, housing savings can be allocated to housing savings. Every second loan is illegal. However, there is now a problem of jurisdiction, who is in charge of controlling it. So any advertising that offers citizens credits by unauthorized persons to... the way in which the information or certain credit benefits are provided is within the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And whether or not this government has done something or not is the best indicator of a new amendment to the Penal Code where the government's insistence required an increase in fines for interest rates and interest rates. Also over the past two years, USKOK, the interior ministry and the state's attorney's office have taken a number of actions and measures where the parties have reported. However, only advertising if there is no realisation of the credit relationship between the bidder and the bidder and the borrower is not a criminal offence. However, I said wrong advertising and giving incorrect information is in charge of the State Inspectorate. However, the latest measures taken by the Ministry of the Interior and the State's Attorney's Office of Amendments to the Penal Code will certainly produce results and will certainly... which appear on pillars of public lighting and in advertising places in the city disappears and also put these bars into cassules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it should also be said that units of local self-government can prohibit the hanging of such unauthorized ads primarily in unauthorized places because every single unit of local self-government that wants order in its city determines where to advertise, where to stick to posters and ads, and in such a way we will come up with a reduction in the possibility of such offers even reaching citizens. The biggest problem, however, is that citizens are generally not making an application to any competent state institution until an accident occurs to them. When loans and when they cannot repay that loan, when coercions, threats begin, confiscation of violent property then state institutions can unfortunately take very little. However, what we need to act preventively and at this point and for the Ministry of the Interior and the State's Attorney's Office that, by practically calling for such ads, it is preventive to act and that certain procedures are being conducted against such persons, but because of the interest of the investigation, I don't think that certain things should be mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64233	Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64234	With the greatest part of your response, Mr. Minister, I am pleased and I agree with the conclusion that this problem must be fully enlightened and that the state must act. I've personally traveled through the major cities of Europe and I haven't seen anything like this anywhere and it's certainly no longer ours for Europe. And I wanted to know and my intention was to see how much this phenomenon threatens or is in the function of the citizens' duties, how much this phenomenon is causing the abuse of citizens in parentheses as it is said popularly causing racketeering and I wanted to know if it was possible for banks to increase their impact on the market through the development of the network, intermediaries and competitiveness to have intermediaries and to have an increasing number of employees. So I'd like to ask a written answer to leave a clue to this question. Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64235	Thank you. Minister's written answer. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64236	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I ask my representative a question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to Dr. Ivo Sanader. In April, we witnessed a high wave of water on the Danube, the second never recorded in most of the Danube countries caused by large floods. Fortunately, in Croatia, due to built-up embankments and well-organised flood defenses, this high water supply caused less damage than in other countries. According to information coming from the Danube countries upstream from us, the Czech Republic, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary is announcing the construction of new higher flood defense dams that can cause more waterfalls than we have recently had and higher than the embankments that protect our coast. These water stops have caused the creation of a large number of smaller water surfaces suitable for mosquito propagation. These insects are also a great plague in dry years, and after this much moisture can be expected to ride. My question is whether activities are planned to protect the defence against floods to protect the settlements on our coast of Danube from higher water stops and whether assistance is planned for Vukovar and other local self-government units in our area in the prevention of mosquitoes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64237	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64238	Mr. Representative, I will take this opportunity to, as Prime Minister, who has visited the areas where the flood threatened, first of all, thank all those who took part in the flood defense, from the local community, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defense, the firefighters to the volunteers who joined. It is true that both in Vukovar-Srijem County and in the case of high waterway Drava in Osijek-Baranja County. We will react on our side in several ways. First of all, we will be doing an expanse on the right bank of the Danube near Aljmaš and for this project the current documentation is produced as well as for the defence project of the Island of Sports in Vukovar, which is miraculously, knowledge and pawning of all those who did that rabbit rash remained practically protected from the high water condition of the Danube. Also for that part of the city of Budzak in Vukovar, there is a project task on the river Vuka, there is also anticipating the construction of a multi-purpose retention of defence against floods, sports, recreation, etc. All these activities are carried out in order to eliminate observed weak spots on the occasion of a recent flood in April. When it comes to this announcement by the countries of the Danube basin upstream of us, it means from Hungary, Slovakia, Austria, etc. Then I must say that these countries have started a little bit not yet until the end to rewrite a higher defence standard in the embankments. We will follow and engage because we are taking part in the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Water Economy will monitor the implementation of this project and we will join. When it comes to mosquitoes as one big monster that was safe last year that we can expect, unfortunately, that after the floods will be even bigger this year, then I can say that for the needs of Vukovar-Srijem County two weeks ago, we decided to grant an emergency aid of 2 million kunas for the disinfection of mosquitoes, and we will follow the development, if necessary and more, we will react again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64239	Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64240	Mr. President, I thank you and your Government for the rapid intervention, because you came to the scene and became convinced of the situation not only in Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem County, but also in Osijek-Baranja. Thank you, and I hope this is settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64241	Dear representative and Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64242	Mr. President, I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister Polancec or the Prime Minister. Namely, the gas affair has just been quieted down, citizens are rightly afraid of new gatherings and are rightly afraid of their standard, because we know that fuel collection causes chain purchases. We don't know how we predict a further course of privatisation of the INA, the modernisation of the refinery is six years late, and it must be one of the causes of the recent affair. Mr. Vice-President, I ask for an indication of the programme of refinery modernisation and the formation of a body that will monitor the implementation of this programme when the Supervisory Board already seems unable to do so. Otherwise, at HSLS, we support the shifts of the responsible. When the problem occurred in the post office, then the first man answered, so for nelados and disorder we agree should be answered. However, when a gas affair broke down Croatia, the first man did not respond. These are truly unusual criteria, and I sincerely hope if there are any subsequent gatherings that won't be a guilty porter or a dactylographer if they don't have the protection of any president or at least an influential politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64243	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, let me say at first that when we talk about the modernisation of refineries in Rijeka and Sisak, I have to say that we have not really started to talk about it until 2003. The INA business plan for the period from 2003 to 2007 envisions a billion and 500 million dollars to be allocated for modernisation, i.e. total investment. To modernise the refinery in Sisak and Rijeka, the business plan envisions only $350m. It was then clear in the beginning that these funds were absolutely not adequate or adequate, and therefore the new INA Supervisory Board was appointed in March 2004, which joined the creation of a new business plan, which envisioned no more than a billion and 500 million dollars for modernisation, i.e. total investments than $2 billion and $70 million of which 680 million, which at that time was considered adequate for the modernisation of these two refineries. Of course, that was not all of it, so it was also necessary to provide real money because the Supervisory Board and accepted the proposal from the Board on the raising of the unioned loan and it was done in 2005 and in this way, in fact, in a financial sense, they had obtained the preconditions in order to get into the modernisation of these refineries at all. However, by a business plan, not only since 2003, not only has far less needed funds been envisaged but the business plan has forgotten to define a number of other things. First of all, the process technology for the management of the heavy is inadequately defined, so to speak, waste in refinery production in Sisak and Rijeka. There were no location permits, no studies, or environmental impact analysis. Unfortunately, there was no end in 2003, and all that paperwork was to be provided and completed by the INA Management Board and the new INA Supervisory Board. Besides, there were no clear timetables. There were no defined operators of the activity, and therefore we confirmed the INA administration of the establishment of a single body, a special body engaged in so-called "the INA". the gymnastics centre and the main committee that monitors the execution of the investment. I think we are really on track today to modernise and be completed by the end of 2010, which is in line with the plans of this Supervisory Board. However, I would like to say that with a number of shortcomings, therefore in preparation during 2003 when clearly only a declaration was made if you ask me about the necessity of modernising the refinery, and much more energy and effort was then invested in preparing the sale of the INA strategic package, unfortunately, I must also say that there has been a great deal of dare to say disturbances on the world market in equipment suppliers and technology for modernising the refinery. Today you have in the process of building 20 new refineries in China. In the Caspian pool 7 new and renovation and modernization 7 refineries. As a consequence of hurricane Katrina in the United States, refineries are being restored. All this, Madam MPs, has led the deadlines for the technology delivery to be extended to 39 months and all this affects the fact that we expect the completion of the modernisation at the end of 2010. As for responsibility for what you have stated and what you have called an affair, each failure must be the most responsible one. In the INA administration for this area, Mr Brusic was the most responsible and therefore the Management Board, i.e. the INA Supervisory Board, was behind his shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64245	Vice-President Đurđa Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64246	Well, I hope that at least we MPs will have a report from the Investment Committee and a new Supervisory Board that requires tasks, but I also hope for something that is expected by the citizens of Croatia, which is a responsibility for unemployment and disorder regardless of political similarities and protection. Because let's not, we're all well-informed here, and we all understand why someone can go for responsibility and why someone else sometimes goes away. Well, I'm just insisting that responsibility has a name and a last name like any culprit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64247	Dear representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64248	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I would like to ask Ms. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Dear Minister, in recent times, the newspaper has often read that the programme encourages housing has stopped, and those apartments that are now moving in, for example. in Spanish, that late and poor quality. She would also like to know because a lot of people ask me about it, does the city of Zagreb build their apartments on the former pig farm Sljemen in Sesveti, which would be intended for POS, mean that in Sesvedi, or the city of Zagreb, there will be no more construction of POS apartments?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64249	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64250	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I've been saying for two years that POS's apartments aren't standing, that we're doing them, and that's what numbers say best. We've built three thousand and 18 apartments so far. Since 1.1.2004, 2,000 113. A thousand 490 apartments are in construction, and 765 are at 15 locations in preparation. However, the fact is that we have problems providing locations for the construction of POS apartments because units of local self-government simply no longer have free locations, and the market cannot buy a country for 70 euros per square cent for building apartments. That is why we will very quickly propose amendments and additions to the POS Act because certain things will have to be changed in order to continue this construction. As far as Spanish is concerned, so is the construction of 25 facilities of 15 performers. 770 apartments have been completed and 412 apartments will be moved in by the end of the year. What you need to say is the fact that some apartments aren't good. However, I will now give you companies that are really good at building and where there are no objections, and these are companies "Technika Lakčević-Radnik", "TIM", "Zagorjegradnja", "Gramat", "GPK Grading" and "Kerekemac" which built the facilities within and where we have no objections. However, we have companies that are 2 to 3 months late, such as Stan Triangl, Galus, Fortis and Schmit Komerc, but the biggest problem we have with 2 companies, it is Industrial Construction and Coning which is 5 months late. And now what happened is that, you read in the paper, that no apartments were finished in Spain, and the keys were shared in a few apartments, which is true. Because there, APN apologized. They trusted the performers, the Coning, and they didn't finish those apartments. That's not gonna happen again. As for Sesveta, the fact is that in 2 years, the City of Zagreb did not hand over land to the state for the construction of POS apartments and that it obviously does not want to do so. That's why they came to us at the ministry to buy project documentation and return all those funds to the countries that have been invested in this construction so far. And it's 77 million 553 thousand and 712 kuna. We think there is no reason not to sell it to them because obviously the City of Zagreb does not want POS's apartments to be built there, but we have done one more thing, and that is, we have requested the amendment and addition of the general urban plan of Sesveta where we have a state country. And they promised to do it, we'll control it, and on that country that's located in Sopnica and in the Deep trench, we'll build these apartments of POS. So, I think that's going to go very quickly, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64251	Thank you. Dear representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64252	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. And once again I thank you for your exhaustive response that actually strengthened me in the belief that this government cares for young families, not just for young families, to solve their housing problems, but for individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64253	The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64254	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm afraid I have to ask you this. The sale of a house owned by the Rapapic family in Korenica is scheduled these days. The intention is to sell the house to the money that will then be given to the person who has invested in the house as a temporary user. Now, who's the temporary user? A temporary user came from Pula, came to Korenica, got an apartment there for housing and the Rapajic house for business purposes. The house was renovated in a way that a birthium was arranged on the ground floor and on the floor a pool space. And it's been used for a few years to earn money. It took the Rapaics 10 years to get their house back. Now it's decided to sell to calm the temporary user. Investment in that house is contrary to the will of the owner, contrary to the Law on Mandatory Relations. It is contrary to the law on the takeover and use of abandoned property. Nevertheless, it is decided, as I said at the outset, and it is a mockery both of justice and of legality. Now, unfortunately, that should be asked by the Prime Minister, but I ask you, and if you please, what will the government do to prevent such injustice and such illegality?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64255	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64256	Mr. Representative, unfortunately we cannot say that in the process of restoring the property of the return and resolving these issues until the end that we cannot say that everything is going on under the law and there are really problems and this Rapapic family case, I am aware that you will ask this question because you have announced it as well as the Rules of Procedure provided for in consultations with Resord Minister Kalmet we can do two things at this time and we will decide on that in the Government. Namely, even for these, because there was another case a few months ago last winter, the Zabrdac case where the court carried out its verdict and sold the Zabrdac family house at a court auction. In that case, the ministry itself, and in the name of the owner, took over the payment of compensation according to the court's final judgment in Daruvar, and the owner thus preserved his house. So here's obviously a few things. First of all, no one can, it's not human, and it's not according to the law. No one who has in another part of Croatia can come here and use other people's property in this way. It is absolutely unacceptable, no matter where Rapapic was before and therefore we will have two possible solutions, two possible solutions. One thing will be that in cases where a final court ruling has not been passed, outside the court settlement with the user and the owner in amounts that are in accordance with the provisions of the Restitution Act, the Ministry shall therefore provide for this and in cases where the court has taken the power to take over the ministry on behalf of the owner and thus prevent the sale of the house on... The state's attorney's office is opposed to paying compensation in cases where judgments have been passed and we still have to deal with them because we feel that property needs to be protected in some way, but these are now a reaction to what's going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You probably want to know if I understand the question of what can we do to prevent such cases from happening in the future? Well, that's the only place we can do all we can to make sure that the people who are responsible for being removed and that new people who will work and prevent such practices and work under the law come to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64257	Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64258	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm satisfied with the model. What I'm saying is that according to the record we have of such cases, it's 26, but good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64259	Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64260	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I ask the question to Minister Ivan Shuker because of the political and economic situation in Požega-Slavon County, for the sake of peace and security of citizens and employees in the system of education, health and other budgetary users whose county is the founder. In fact, from the report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Požeko-Slavon County of Mr Željko Žilić, we find out in... The county budget with several million kunas as well as the Municipality of Velika with 9 million kuna and that it asked the Croatian government for an additional 55 million kuna for the functioning of the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia, is the Government held responsible and is there anything that can be done for the smooth pursuit of activities in the institutions and institutions of the Požega-Slavon County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64261	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64262	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So I think that sometimes irresponsible political statements that are not based on the law and on concrete facts can create a great confusion and what is greatest is to create fear of people for their existence, to perform public functions, first of all, about their loved ones, about children for school, about care for health, and so the Croatian public should say that the funds for salaries in hospitals, in the centres for social care in primary and secondary schools are paid through the resolution ministries and are not paid out of the county budget and therefore for the Croatian public in the state budget for these institutions for which I have listed homes of health, primary and secondary schools, the social care centres are provided with 161 million kuna, of which for health and social care salaries 50.9 million kuna, for education is planned 106 million, of which for basic education 71 million and secondary education 35.4 million. All these people will normally receive their salaries because wages are paid from the Treasury, not the county budget. Another thing, for decentralised functions, this year the county plans 42 million kuna. $30 million is available from the Fund for Alignment, and €10 million is given to the County directly through the share in income tax. But also talk about debt, about a place or so million kuna is ultimately neither incorrectly nor so much debt, it needs to be determined, but things need to be put in the right place and called the right name no matter who does them. The first edition of the bonds took place in 2002, and this was found in the State Audit report. However, the one who introduced the issue of bonds to private business companies is the former government. In December 2001, the government made a decision to renew a billion-and-a-half kuna procedure in private companies to charge HABOR's walk, while at the same time the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development will issue bonds guaranteeing that the state will repay those loans on behalf of private companies. So if the state pays for the renovation, then the state raises credit on the basis of the invoices issued by the refurbishment companies, hence the co-operation was introduced by the former government in December 2001 and there were plenty of speeches when we talked about inherited debts, among other things about a billion and a half unpaid loans. Also today's mayoral candidate, former Mayor Ronko, also gave the bonds to the company "Kamen Ingrad". Therefore, the things the political party does, which the political official does, should be called completely by that name, because if something is illegal, then it is illegal for everyone, if something is legal, then it is legal for everything. The other thing is, the one who put together the report to the Prime Minister did it unprofessionally. The issued bonds need to be determined by the state authorities whether they were issued in accordance with the law, whether or not they were all decisions, that is neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Croatian Parliament, it is known which state authorities first and foremost the State Audit Office should determine how much and how much and at what rate and dynamics these bonds come on the charge. There has been a blockage for one amount of credit, but the blockade will not be, in fact there has been no blockage of the gyroacs and I here responsible for the Croatian public say that the 9.5th jury of Požega County has not been blocked. However, I repeat irresponsible statements in politics can cause some damage and I didn't think of talking about this, but when politics says a variety of accounts, I will tell you the model that the former government used to pay for. That's how a decision was made to pay someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64263	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64264	It's some kind of pay traffic. Now look what you bring. The Minister of Finance's decision is made to remove so much and so much funds from the other revenues' incomes and to pay the company's bill. The expenditure has never been recorded in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the money has been disclosed. And today these same workers are suing the state of Croatia for unpaid salaries. It's about models, gentlemen something that doesn't comply with the law isn't even... neither for HDZ nor anything that is consistent with everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64265	Thank you. Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One of the fundamental values of the rule of law is respect for the law and the Constitution, the system must function because of the many users and employees and the Požega-Slavon County is one of the oldest in Croatia whose written and cultural history dates back to 1210, and therefore, as representatives of that region, I particularly care about the functioning and accept Mr. Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64267	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64268	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So I think that sometimes irresponsible political statements that are not based on the law and on concrete facts can create a great confusion and what is greatest is to create fear of people for their existence, to perform public functions, first of all, about their loved ones, about children for school, about care for health, and so the Croatian public should say that the funds for salaries in hospitals, in the centres for social care in primary and secondary schools are paid through the resolution ministries and are not paid out of the county budget and therefore for the Croatian public in the state budget for these institutions for which I have listed homes of health, primary and secondary schools, the social care centres are provided with 161 million kuna, of which for health and social care salaries 50.9 million kuna, for education is planned 106 million, of which for basic education 71 million and secondary education 35.4 million. All these people will normally receive their salaries because wages are paid from the Treasury, not the county budget. Another thing, for decentralised functions, this year the county plans 42 million kuna. $30 million is available from the Fund for Alignment, and €10 million is given to the County directly through the share in income tax. But also talk about debt, about a place or so million kuna is ultimately neither incorrectly nor so much debt, it needs to be determined, but things need to be put in the right place and called the right name no matter who does them. The first edition of the bonds took place in 2002, and this was found in the State Audit report. However, the one who introduced the issue of bonds to private business companies is the former government. In December 2001, the government made a decision to renew a billion-and-a-half kuna procedure in private companies to charge HABOR's walk, while at the same time the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development will issue bonds guaranteeing that the state will repay those loans on behalf of private companies. So if the state pays for the renovation, then the state raises credit on the basis of the invoices issued by the refurbishment companies, hence the co-operation was introduced by the former government in December 2001 and there were plenty of speeches when we talked about inherited debts, among other things about a billion and a half unpaid loans. Also today's mayoral candidate, former Mayor Ronko, also gave the bonds to the company "Kamen Ingrad". Therefore, the things the political party does, which the political official does, should be called completely by that name, because if something is illegal, then it is illegal for everyone, if something is legal, then it is legal for everything. The other thing is, the one who put together the report to the Prime Minister did it unprofessionally. The issued bonds need to be determined by the state authorities whether they were issued in accordance with the law, whether or not they were all decisions, that is neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Croatian Parliament, it is known which state authorities first and foremost the State Audit Office should determine how much and how much and at what rate and dynamics these bonds come on the charge. There has been a blockage for one amount of credit, but the blockade will not be, in fact there has been no blockage of the gyroacs and I here responsible for the Croatian public say that the 9.5th jury of Požega County has not been blocked. However, I repeat irresponsible statements in politics can cause some damage and I didn't think of talking about this, but when politics says a variety of accounts, I will tell you the model that the former government used to pay for. That's how a decision was made to pay someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64269	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64270	It's some kind of pay traffic. Now look what you bring. The Minister of Finance's decision is made to remove so much and so much funds from the other revenues' incomes and to pay the company's bill. The expenditure has never been recorded in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the money has been disclosed. And today these same workers are suing the state of Croatia for unpaid salaries. It's about models, gentlemen something that doesn't comply with the law isn't even... neither for HDZ nor anything that is consistent with everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64271	Thank you. Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One of the fundamental values of the rule of law is respect for the law and the Constitution, the system must function because of the many users and employees and the Požega-Slavon County is one of the oldest in Croatia whose written and cultural history dates back to 1210, and therefore, as representatives of that region, I particularly care about the functioning and accept Mr. Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64273	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64274	It's a question for the Prime Minister. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, you know what I'm going to ask you. I'm going to ask you about the Split Square because some of your closest people and people of the most trust and also friends participated in making an incredible decision to sign a contract in which the Split Square gives a million and a half kuna to the client now to Cyprus back, a million and a half dollars sorry. So, the Supervisory Board headed by Mr. Vukelic, Minister Vukelic and the Vice-President of the Supervisory Board at the time, at the time, Mr. Sinisha Poljak, who untracedly disappeared and disappeared from all the boards and boards of directors, and there were many of them, so they cooked that decision. Even though you've already taken over the role of state attorney and judge, and you said it was a produced affair, which seems a little careless by the prime minister, I'm asking you because this really stinks, and it's miles away, hundreds of miles on corruption, crime, money laundering. I ask you to answer to the Croatian public where the $6 million that went to the Cypriot customer is? And you can call or not call on the results of the vote on TV shows. You once watched Housewives on TV Nova, so you said you didn't see the result where 80% of Croatian citizens think this government is corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64275	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64276	Dear Mr. Representative Jurovic! We who are from Split know very well what your family has been doing in 40 years since communism here. I was hoping that you as a reformed communist would today be a Social Democrats, that you as a reformed Social Democrats would at least have hoped so, because some of your statements were directed in this direction to stay out of such action because Ante Jurjevic-Baja was the master not only of the Shkver but of life and death in Split. /The noise in the hall. And that's why, and now on the subject and the topic is absolutely connected to what I'm talking about. Therefore, the way you have now delivered the verdict to the Shipyard of Split, the Shipyard Administration, the Supervisory Board. Now, when you're told what's true, then you don't accept it, but we're no longer in one-party system, we're no longer in a one-party system, but in a multi-party democracy, and on the matter of MPs, let the Prime Minister answer which is chosen by democratic means. You probably didn't vote for me, but I wouldn't expect your votes. So if you'd like to hear the answer, please. And if not, then say it. So, here's the deal. When I quoted a recent survey done by Croatian television after your attacks that were unfounded, unargumented and absolutely politically motivated, you heard the public's answer. The public doesn't trust you. The public said it was a political shootout and it wasn't about crime compared to 70% to 30%. Now, the fact that you were burned because we saw the face you made after that poll made it clear to me that you were expecting something else. And I, from this position, Mr. Jurovic, from this position of the Prime Minister, insist that all state bodies do their job to investigate whether there were any or not dishonest shops or crime at the Split Shipyard. What's only true so far, so before the investigation ends, is the only truth, and I'm going to repeat what I said earlier on the first question, and that's that for the first time in Split's Square ships are being delivered without a penalty. Therefore, the shipyard whose Board of Supervisors is headed by Minister Vukelić and the administration that came after a changed administration that was incompetent and which had driven the shipyard into debt and I am ordering from the pay phone in the Croatian Assembly of Workers of Split Skver The Government will defend both the jobs and the perspective of Split's Shkver, not because it is the prime minister from Split, but because we will defend it in other shipyards from Uljanik to Rijeka, to Kraljek, to Korčula, to Lenca, which you in the past government gave to me, I do not know how much money from taxpayers because it was not their money, from taxpayers, you gave everything. This company didn't fail, the Split Shkver is doing well today. There's no foam on the ships, and as much as you're trying to prove otherwise, you're not gonna make it. And when it comes to the rule of law, answer the question. I haven't reached any verdict, this will be spoken by the State's Attorney's Office and the authorities of the state administration, and not by you or me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64277	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64278	And again I say that I will not descend to your level or tell you about your family, about you or anyone close to you. That's not what I'm I can afford that luxury. I've been in Split a little longer than you. But you see, Mr. Prime Minister, even though you're messing with, messing with or messing with him, you can't possibly answer one simple thing where the $6 million that went to Cyprus is suspected of being crime, money laundering, corruption. It's a question, Mr. Prime Minister, which you'll have to answer eventually. And let me tell you that HABOR did not want to follow such a contract, that Croatian shipbuilding is also a state-owned institution that has shown its doubts. I also want a Croatian public answer from you where is this money? Is it stolen? Did the cat get him? Did he go into someone's pockets? Or is it in Cyprus that we all know isn't?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64279	Dear Representative Order! [[The intruders don't understand.]] Order! Order! Order! [[The intruders don't understand.]] Order! Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64280	I refer the question to Minister Calmeta. Ministers Kalmeta immediately ahead of the re-election for the City Council of Velika Gorica, you and Prime Minister Sanader and Minister Shuker both opened works on the highway from Zagreb to Sisak in those elections. The pictures from the opening were nice. There were a lot of badgers and trucks, construction workers were brought in, and citizens came in. Well then, members of your party with HDZ flags [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64281	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64282	And they waved happily looking forward to the new road. Perhaps one of your members was looking forward to it. The current wife of the former HDZ mayor, from whom the government bought her little orchard in Velika Gorica for big money. Of course it didn't help you very much. You've lost your election. But with the disappearance of the chance to win power in Velika Gorica, the open works stopped. For a month, there were no badgers or trucks, no workers, and the citizens in the election said theirs and went home. Only a few of the HDZ paper flags left in the building mud. That's when the media started writing about it, but recently there was a bagger and three trucks that needed to be made. 46km of road, 17 bridges, 5 viaducts, 20 overpasses and 7 underpasses. [["Peace"! Peace be upon you!]] I'm asking you, Minister Calmett, how do you plan on doing this?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64283	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64284	My fellow MPs and MPs, Mr. Traziæ, so here's the question you've asked so well, but unfortunately, unfortunately for all of your regrets about what you've said, it's a little bit true, and I would dare even say that nothing is true. In the program, in the program of this government, in the four-year program of this government is building a section of highway from Zagreb to Sisak and as you said, it is true, that these works on that highway are open not because they were soon the elections, but because we are, but because we are. We open, we open 10 days ago something 15 days ago, I don't know. And 30.6., and 30.6. this month, 3 months before the deadline, we'll put the stock on the market, for example, and end up from Županje to Lipovac, and we know that there is no choice at least as far as I know. The work is therefore open because it is in the plan to build public roads, or highways, and then the works began. The works were continuous and continued, and the fact that perhaps two days was a rainy period or three, and those 2, 3 days were not done intensive construction works but were carried out... or anything else that belongs to these works is now a matter of preparation and the issue of the construction organization itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen from the "HATS" after these inscriptions to convince the opposite public took all interested journalists to a construction site where journalists also convinced themselves that they were working there with a full pair. Today it is, today it is a construction site and in full function as well. It's already done with the drizzles, so it's done for the track. Therefore, the work is ongoing and the work will certainly be completed as planned. This is at the end of 2000, at the end of next year until Velika Gorica on one condition, which is that Zagreb County changes, changes the spatial plan in one part that must, which must change. Therefore, the works on the Zagreb-Sisak highway are running with their dynamics, running their course, as they are both drawn and imagined and will certainly be as all the shares this government is working to complete before the deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64285	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64286	Ministers, Minister Calmeta. In your response to which I'm partially satisfied, there's a lot to go on. And rain and endings and an unscheduled spatial plan. There's no such thing as a building permit or a location or anything like that can... But the opening ceremony ahead of the election, it's the Ministers of Calmeta's one cheap trick and people rightly get on their nerves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the time of President Tudjman's election, so many stone foundations were buried before each election, on which nothing later appeared that today, when these stones were unearthed, a solid elementary school could be built. I'm unhappy that you're still trying to perform such tricks in front of voters. I'm pleased to see that's as unsuccessful as it is in the case of the Great Gore. And I'll be most pleased if you build that road within the scheduled time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64287	Honorable representative of Nenad Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. President, the Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out that our negotiations with the European Union need and can be swift and high-quality. [[/Intruder: Mira!]] The dynamics of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union will be important in determining both the speed and quality of the negotiation process itself. In the past two years, the government proposed and the parliament adopted only 62 European laws. It's less than the Parliament did in the last term in 2003, so in just one year and that election year. For the first quarter of this year, the National Programme for Accession of the European Union provided for the adoption of 9 European laws. The score is 9:0, I just don't know who. I ask the prime minister does he think that the dynamics and quality of harmonisation of legislation could and should be better? How many more new laws should be proposed to the Parliament for adoption in order to fully bring our legislation into line with the European acquis, and how long will it take us if the Government continues with this slow-moving legislative harmonisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64289	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64290	Mr. Representative, I hope you agree with me that negotiations with the European Union should be of quality and speed. I believe that the speed of negotiation and the quality of negotiation are not the opposite of each other. So when there may be a public debate in one part of the public, should we go quickly to the European Union? We should but provided that we conduct quality negotiations and find quality solutions for Croatia. In that sense, the government's assessment was that for this year, the pension of the law we have proposed is quite sufficient and that in the coming years and in 2008, we will be able to comply with the rest of the laws that we need to comply with with the European Union. That's our assessment. If you think it's not a good assessment, I'm open to talking in the government. Come, suggest. There was also a debate here when we proposed the adoption of the National Annual Plan for Harmonisation with the European Union. I haven't seen your proposals further with the laws we've proposed. That was an opportunity to say, gentlemen of the government we think these are good bill proposals, but not enough numbers, so we suggest more. You didn't do it, but you didn't do it anyway, but I'm still standing for you. Your door's open. Make a deal, if you think we can be faster, that we can give you some more laws this year, we'll propose them along with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64291	Agent Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64292	... which is not passed in this year by the proposed laws to the Parliament. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] And that is why I cannot be satisfied with the over-optimism of the prime minister, because there is no basis for this in the so far-showed reform capacity of the government, and such optimism cannot be based on yesterday's statement by the President of the European People's Party of Mr. Petering, who after the prime minister assured the Croatian public of the great successes of his lobbying and the unconditional support of the European regiments here said that Croatia's membership in the European Union is uncertain. So please write a reply to the overall reform package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64293	Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64294	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. Now whether European laws are passed or not, but once again, the atmosphere in this House is the right parliamentary and I look forward to it. But let me ask you a question now, Mr. President. In the sixth month, 400,000 Croatian pensioners under quotes are due to receive the first payment war. Is that going to happen, Mr. President, and what money is it going to pay off? Croatia's government has promised to repay the debt to that category under the allegations of old pensioners, including the sale of shares in INA, HT, etc. I'm supposed to be reading myself on the New York Stock Exchange. These processes didn't start. Maybe she'd better not start selling INA because we saw how she ended up selling 25% of INA. So, next month, will the pensioners get the first one under quotes a billion and 500 million kuna all together, and how will the government get that money?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64295	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64296	Mr. Representative, I am extremely grateful for this question. It is an opportunity to once again today when most Croatian citizens, first of all, are watching this direct transfer of the current afternoon in the Croatian Parliament and once again I say on behalf of the Government that in late June, so next month the first dam for non-debt pensioners, because we called it compensation for the pensioners to whom the Constitutional Court was in '98. It's decided that they have to be compensated will be paid. That's a billion-and-a-half kuna sum. We've already secured that money, so I guarantee from here that all pensioners will be paid off at the end of June, and there's no doubt about it, and there's no doubt about it. Even though it wasn't your question, but I'm going to say that because there's a group there about 40,000 people when it comes to it, how many? 40,000 people. When it comes to family pensions, we have formed a working group between the government and our partners of the Croatian Pensions Party because we have really done a lot together to find a solution for these people. It's not likely we won't be able to do it now because it's going to take a certain process, a certain number of months to find a solution, but that's why we're going to find a solution for them. However, for those who are unquestionable, which is somewhere around 420,000 people, 420,000 pensioners will receive the first tranche in late June. And to take advantage of the occasion because the MP asked a question earlier, I don't think it's fair to mention Mr. Petering who denied yesterday the news published by Reuters. He didn't say that. He fully supports Croatia, and today he comes to Split and will say it again. Petering will do it again tomorrow in Split, because tomorrow he is in Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64297	Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64298	I'm absolutely satisfied. My parents will be happier. These 400,000 pensioners have no doubt. Clearly, this war requires a billion and 500 million kuna. It's big money for Croatia, it's not fabulous money. That's 200m euros, but for 400,000 pensioners it's a matter of trust in the government. Therefore, I also want to believe that other tranches will be properly met or executed, and I advocate that they give up the announced sale of 15% of INA because we saw how they ended up selling 25% of INA. Therefore, we propose that it be executed from its own resources. We see that the money is secure. The VAT is charged extremely well 20.9% higher in the first three months compared to the same period last year. That's about a billion kuna more for the first three months than last year. .../President: Peace be with you!/...... What now? Therefore, I really want to believe that this promise will not come into question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64299	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64300	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will ask my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, defenders, intergenerational solidarity. I know how much your ministry or government has done to improve the material position of Croatian defenders and restore their lost dignity. Here I would only mention the Law on Croatian defenders where really important, important improvements in existing solutions have been introduced and some important new ones have been introduced. Here, I also consider this Croatian Defence Fund very important. These days, the home addresses are being confirmed to the defenders in.../President: Gentlemen!/... but I am getting the impression that most of them are not actually aware of what this really means, so I would ask you here to tell us what the Croatian defenders can expect from their stakes in the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64301	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64302	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, the Honorable Madam Representative. Here is how you yourself said one of these moves of this government in just over 2 years related to Croatian defenders and care for Croatian defenders and members of their families is also the foundation of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. In order to do so, we had to carry out a series of preparatory actions and very serious moves in the government. Among other things, to amend the law that the Croatian Parliament did on a proposal from the Government, the Fund Act. Then, of course, we had to base the Management Board, choose a property management company and do a number of other jobs. What is of course most important, the government has transferred 7% of the shares of the INA and 7% of the shares of HT to the Croatian Defence Fund. The construction and parallel work of the Croatian defenders' register, which was done by two ministries, so MORH, MUP and the Croatian Defence Ministry, which made the lists. The criteria for the stakes were developed and here finally began to send information about the Fund's stakes to Croatian defenders' addresses. Of course, with one reasonable time limit which has any objections to the calculation of the share, these remarks may, above all, refer to the Asset Management Society, but also to the competent ministries if they are not satisfied with the dates, or what is of course decisive about how much of their stakes will be. We have time for that job. Since there were some additional proposals and remarks, I decided and set up a working group that had just started working yesterday, which is considering all the new proposals, i.e. objections where representatives are primarily defence associations, but also representatives of the MARH, MUP and the Croatian Defence Ministry. And that working group therefore has on the table all the comments so far, or suggestions. We're in no hurry because we have time. It is essential that the Fund is founded and that it has started to function and that its assets are currently larger than 2 billion and 160 million kuna. What you should say as here's the information extra and thank you very much for having the opportunity to do so, is that the availability of the shares in the Fund gives shareholders the following rights. First of all, the right to a real profit from dividends. It is also the right to pay off on the basis of a document on the calculation of the share when the time comes, when a 3-year limit has passed which we have just installed based on the bad experiences of the past. Then, of course, they will be able to do so. And what I would particularly like to point out is that we agreed that according to the regulations of course that say that 1/3 of the Fund can be obtained, or must be used to meet the social needs of Croatian defenders where we agreed that 60% of these revenues go to financing the Croatian Social Security Defence Fund, so those who are the most vulnerable in the event of a disease. Clearly, strict criteria will be developed for that purpose. Soon you will receive a proposal from the Foundation Act and a proposal from the Fund for Scholarships, which will go 40% of which 1/3 will receive for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and their children. So I think that it will be useful to spend the funds, and it is quite certain that, I repeat, because you will soon receive these two proposals of the law for consideration, that first of all the defenders who are on the list, so in the Register, but also members of their families will ultimately be satisfied. Because in the end, I'd like to point out one fact that I already said that we passed on, so the government transferred 7% of HT shares and 7% of INA shares to that Fund. For 7% of INA shares, the government had no legal restriction. So the government didn't have any deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64303	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64304	We did it already last year because we felt it was necessary, that it was only correct and that this shows the government's attitude towards Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64305	Thank you. She's a representative of the Rose dwarves.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64306	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. And I think that they will also be grateful to the Croatian defenders and that they will be able to wait calmly for the remaining to receive certificates of participation in their, in this Fund. Because now this creation of public change is about some injustices I think these will be removed. And I am of the opinion that we still need to present to the Croatian defenders in particular, but also to the Croatian public, to point out. ... And I think the benefits will be very good. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And given these values of the dishes that are in the Fund, as you yourself have said, these are also the most valuable shares, I think these shares will actually provide a lasting material security for Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64307	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64308	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta. It reads, we know that the traffic of goods in the port of Vukovar has been increased in the last two years, and has reached a capacity of 800 thousand tonnes. Please answer the question of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing to launch the development of the port in view of the growing demand for goods crossing the port of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64309	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64310	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Luka Vukovar is certainly the most spectacular port of internal water in Croatia, and the fact is that traffic through the port is growing year after year and it has reached 800 thousand tonnes, which given the capacity of the port is some kind of limit. However, there is also one crane in the procurement process, 16 tons of portal cranes that help and increase the port's capacity. However, regarding this port development and this perspective this government has ordered, financed the Master's plan of the Vukovar port and presented study documentation, feasibility study and port and we are conducting intensive preparations for the expansion and development of the port. Because according to some estimates and forecasts, the port will have 2 and a half million tonnes of goods by 2015 and up to 2025 as much as 6 million tonnes of goods. When we add to this the construction of the Danube-Sava channel that will give one new dimension to that port, then surely the port has one huge perspective as an economic operator not only for Vukovar but for the whole of Croatia, i.e. for the whole of Croatia. The port of Vukovar will develop into three stages. The first stage is the construction of a 400m new operational coast and the phase will begin next year and will be built for three years. The second phase is by 2012, which predicts the city another 500 metres of operational coast and the third phase is up to and after 2012, and it predicts a further 650 metres of operational coast and all accompanying infrastructure. So a total investment somewhere around 60m euros planned to be installed in the Vukovar port. Most of this will be financed with the support of the state clearly through the credit, and one part will be participated by private entrepreneurs and what is important within that port or next to that port is planning to build a single economic zone. So we know what we're going to do with this port, we're going to do steps, and by the end of the year there will be an idea project and a location permit and a realisation at the construction of the first phase of this port will begin next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64311	Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64312	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Luka Vukovar is in God's given place. She has God-given natural conditions and, of course, needs to be followed by technical conditions. But you mentioned, otherwise the burden will go away, the water will take them away as people say and throw the flood away somewhere else. You mentioned this crane. According to the Port Authority of Vukovar, it was stuck in the appeal procedure and it was not allowed to continue for a long time. I ask and appeal to do so in any way quickly because the deadline is the end of this year for the realization of this project. This crane, if we're talking about the same thing, is otherwise donated by the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64313	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64314	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, according to the Law on Agricultural Land of 91, a key provision determines that the Republic of Croatia is the owner of the entire agricultural land until then. Social property, located outside the construction area of local self-government units. This problem of non-returning of agricultural land to former owners with certain specificities of county environments is a topic of greater interest for many of our citizens, although it is a direct cause of my question of return to land to former owners in the Konavos field, and this topic is also present in the vicinity of Omis, in Lipik, Novi Gradišca, and of course the daily life of citizens of the City of Zagreb living in Brezovica, Dragost, Hrelic and other suburban settlements. In spite of whether the request for return was filed under the Law on Exclusion or on the basis of the Law on Compensation of Compensation of Assets at the time of the Yugoslav Authority, the cases are either not resolved at all or are being dealt with extremely slowly and what is most important, the almighty bureaucratic administrative smiles seek to return in order to resolve the refusal of absurd arguments from the need for a return, seek within five years, so there are 59th and so on. As it is known, the Republic of Croatia will be very difficult to protect state-owned real estate after 2007, because then the requirement should be the principle of trust in land books, so I ask you to give me a single answer if you can. When the agricultural land registration process in the Republic of Croatia will finally be completed, resulting from the obligation under the 91st Law, when land will finally begin to return to former owners and more importantly when it will end and finally, which will be with that agricultural land for which no one has submitted a request for return at all or will disappear blurred in the portfolio of local self-government, state or anyone, for example, will. The government's Property Office shall ensure that it is overly and transparently managed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64315	Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64316	Dear Madam MPs, you have also stated the legal obligations that exist and the practice that is not the best. I ask you for all of these examples that you have cited from the Konavo field to Omis to Bezovica etc. to give me concrete examples. I can't say at this point what stage they're in and what are the reasons why something isn't done because the government doesn't. There are bodies that behave, but what I can tell you is that we need to hurry up with all of this and enroll in land books and cadastres and everything else, but also to return where possible. So there are laws that regulate it, and I ask you to give it to me in concrete cases, and we will answer you in writing to everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64317	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64318	I thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Of course I can't be satisfied, but I guess I'll be much more pleased when I get that answer in writing, of course I'll give all the examples. But this is a principled question, and the examples are only here to strengthen its importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64319	Thank you. It's 11:30, half an hour off. We'll continue at 12.00 hours. It is next to the honourable representative Mario Zubovic. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. The parliamentary issue, the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64321	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen, I would like to refer the question to Minister Calmeta. Since the Croatian government has brought and adopted a golf development programme in Croatia in 1990, 1999, I would like to ask Minister Calmet what has been done so far in the development of golf in Croatia and when will the playgrounds be built? I must say that in the world and Europe, in all countries of Europe, there are a large number of golf courses. Lately, we've been hearing complaints about building a golf course at least we don't have a de facto any real playground. Here, we know how much golf there is besides being a very interesting sport, how important it is in tourism. How important it is in hiring people. Here I have brought two books, this is the book "List of Courses in Austria", and there are 120. This is a book where all the playgrounds in Ireland are. Ireland is the population of the size of Croatia. There's a 361 playground in this book. So 4 million inhabitants have a large number of playgrounds, and Croatia does not have anything except Krasic, there is not a single golf course. Croatian tourism could also work at a winter time when there would be golf courses in Dalmatia and Primorje, Istria. So I ask Minister Calmet what the Croatian government has done so far and when will the playgrounds be built? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64322	Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64323	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I agree with you absolutely that golf and golf course, golfing is something that is very important from sports, but even more as a tourist aspect and Croatia as a tourist country, as one of the best tourist destinations certainly must have that content, that it must have built golf courses, golf courses in Croatia to complete the offer and to be able to compete on a very demanding and sharp to say so to the tourist market here in the environment. Not to say further in Europe and the world. It is therefore unquestionable that golf is also important for the extension of the tourist season. If it were an additional content to make it then, and this golf can be played in some parts of our country and throughout the year to extend the tourist season and so on and so on. There are some 1600 golf courses in Europe and there is still a great demand for the construction of golf courses both in Europe and in the world. In Croatia several dozen are planned, with spatial plans I say building a golf course. How much of this will be built, which will show environmental impact studies, cost-effectiveness studies and so on, and so on we will see. What has been the problem so far with building a golf course have been several that have in some ways prevented investors from building a golf course. This was, first of all, the problem of property relations where it's not a problem with the investor and the state because the state gives in a concession and is ready to give in a concession of its land to build a golf course but it can happen that, I don't know, out of 100 private parcels is stuck on a parcel and then is one long-term process of resolving this dispute. Secondly, the problem was in general that for a golf course that costs, it was building around 40 million kunas that when all these were calculated together and summed up before the very beginning of construction for some administrative and financial obstacles, it would pay about 200 million kuna. Of course there was absolutely no calculation or logic, normally. The government has so far taken a series of steps towards this matter. First, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction adopted one Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on Simple Buildings where it says that building the terrain itself is a landscape architecture, so not for building buildings but only for building the terrain does not require a building permit. A clear study of environmental impact is needed. We need a location permit. It is necessary, it needs a certified project and so on and so on. The second thing we have done is we have issued a guideline on the application of the Water Contribution Regulation, where we have reduced water contributions for such facilities. And the third thing in the process of determining the amount to be used by the forest and forest land for the purpose of building a golf course where these fees will also be reduced, i.e. to make it easier to draw and get investors to build a golf course. There's another problem, and that's the problem with the level of municipal compensation, but the government can't influence it. A local self-government unit can influence this. I am convinced that units of local self-government will know all the good that carries the golf course that they will also have that understanding. I believe that in a relatively short time, I may be able to say even in the next month because almost everything is prepared, I will be signed and the first concession agreement between the state and investors to build a real big golf course. It's about the golf course on, the Red Summit in Umag. So here I think we have removed a lot of barriers that have prevented investors from coming, building golf courses, and I expect that after this first concession contract, very quickly and several more concession contracts will begin to build these necessary facilities for tourism, for sport and for all that it means.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64324	Mr. Minister, I'm glad to hear you've made a move. I would just like to say that it would be good to also establish a golf commission that the former government has predicted so that it would help people who are moving to build a golf course to overcome the problems they face in such a huge investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64325	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64326	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer my question to the defence minister, Mr Rončević. We have recently witnessed the immersion of a mineship in Veli Luka and every dive, every ship, and especially for the needs of the Ministry of Defense for me, it is as personal as I believe, and for all of us, it is an extraordinary joy. However, my question is focused on you, Mr. Minister, whether it is the sinking of a mineship, is an exception that confirms the rule, or whether it is a long-term, strategic decision by the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Government that the domestic industry will play a greater role in the purpose of equipping and modernising the Croatian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64327	Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64328	Mr. President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Representative. Yes, I hope you are happy to share with us the sinking of a small mineship and I am using this opportunity to tell you some basic information even though its immersion in part of the Croatian media has caused both unnecessary and pompous comments. Until the term of office of this government, a young anti-miny ship, and this is a project that began in '93. Seven and a half million dollars was spent on it. The question has been raised which, with seven and a half million dollars already invested, we decided to complete this anti-miny ship, contracted its completion for an additional 26 million kuna and recently pushed it down. Already the first surveys at sea show that the ship has exceptional maneuvering abilities and what is most important is a complete Croatian product from idea to performance and we see a special value in what was built on a small shipyard on the island and in this way we from the Ministry of Defence have contributed to the economic development of the Croatian island. I can assure you that there will be no exception because we strongly encourage the domestic military industry and, to that end, in cooperation with colleagues from the Ministry of Economy, we are working to establish a dispersal of domestic military industry producers. We have respectable producers. Your Međimurje produces the best military helmet in the world. That's what I say responsibly. The Croatian gun is the best, almost the best product on the world market. We have significant opportunities, and the most significant procedure, the Marine Centre for Electronics produces the highest quality communication device and the class to be sold for third markets, but not as Tales' product, but as a product of the Marine Centre for Electronics in Split. The most financially demanding project of ours will be an armored infantry vehicle. Since there are certain dilemmas in Croatian media as well, we find out what we agreed on every week, which producer. What is important to tell the Croatian public is that the government made a decision and tasked the Ministry of Defence to drive special vehicles with Djur Djakovic, meaning the Croatian firm owned by the Republic of Croatia contracts to produce that vehicle in Croatia. We hope that this will be the best possible way of presenting the interest of the Croatian military industry and our position is to give them the opportunity to prove themselves both with price and quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64329	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64330	Thank you very much. So I have to be satisfied with this response for one reason because it shows that this government has an interest in starting domestic production in terms of the military industry, and I am particularly pleased with the part of the answer where you mentioned both Međimurje and the helmet manufacturer in Međimurje. Because not only is it a product that our approach to NATO has a great recommendation to the same whole country and our industry, because it is already a helmet that has been in place since this year, that is, as of next year, as part of the procurement provided for by the US military, and we know what that means, so I hope that the other producers that you have listed here will be involved in this class of military equipment production for our military and modernization of our army will be a big enough challenge for all to show ourselves on the external market, that is also to be one of those steps that will bring us to NATO more quickly, but also on other world markets as regards military equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64331	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64332	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to ask Mrs. Lovrin a question on the activities of the Ministry of Justice in implementing a project to arrange land-based books and catastra in the section relating to the work of land-based library departments of municipal courts, given the crucial importance that this arrangement has in terms of the realization of a number of development projects, not only private but also economic ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64333	Justice Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64334	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. So here is the Ministry of Justice, along with the judicial authorities, intensively and systematically working on the operationalisation of the government's justice reform strategy programme. One of the important segments in this strategy is the resolution and setting up of land-books and grants, both in terms of solving the number of cases left behind and in achieving the daily updates of land-based library departments at European level and also in harmonising land-based library and cadastrian data, and in all together in digitising land-based book input data. As far as solving backlogs are concerned, I must say that since September 2004, when the country's state of affairs campaign began that the number of 360 thousand leftovers has been reduced today to the number of 190 thousand, also in 109 grantovnica in Croatia is being implemented a project of reform of land books and catastras. What is even more important to say is that today it has already been reached in 71 courts in Croatia daily updates, which means that today citizens of land-booked excerpts can be obtained immediately, so on the same day they applied for it, and the resolved ZK case and registration within 7 days. Also compared to the transfer of land-book data data to digital format to facilitate the availability of PK data, today 70% of the PK inputs are transferred to digital format, and 17% of the data has already been verified, so they can close written land books. In relation to the harmonisation of land-based and cadastrian data, which is extremely important, for the sake of efficiency, it should be said that today a working group is being established in 45 catastrian municipalities, i.e. the establishment of land-books, and it is particularly important to point out that just these days in the Ministry of Justice, a working group is formed in order to prepare a draft of amendments to the Law on land-books and sublaws that would now allow conditions for the speedy and efficient harmonisation of land-based and cadastrian data. I must also say that today in 40 courts a copy has been completed, in 5 courts a complete verification of land-book data has been completed. We understand that there is always a reference to the Zagreb court and the Zagreb grantovnica because it is the largest in Croatia and here I must say that today 100% of land-book cartridges have been transferred into digital form and 78% and 8% have been verified. Finally, in the Ministry of Justice, the education of land-book References is carried out in accordance with the information equipment, in order to make the implementation of the ZK cases as effective as possible. It is also extremely important to note that today it is out of the press of the second volume of court practice that applies exclusively to land-book law, which is aimed at equating the practices of all land-booking departments in Croatia. And finally, Mr. Representative, knowing in the Department of Justice how neat the garter and orderly and effective procedures in land-booking are as important as they are to enable investment and thus to develop the economy and for the sake of orderly and legal traffic of real estate, we will continue to work on it and I will personally be satisfied only when I never hear the expression "out of book" property for real estate again and when no one asks me if you know anyone there in that garter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64335	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64336	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. It is just the implementation of a project to take care of land books and catastras of the Croatian government to confirm that the promised and realisation is made, so I would like to emphasise not only the solving of the biggest problems of the major cities, I would like you to continue to take care of both land books and catastras in the coast and in the Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64337	Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64338	I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, under your chairmanship, made a decision to forgive part of the state debt in favour of the company "The Stone Ingrad", which was then owned by the Government of Zaca, with the reason that it was so decided to save jobs. Meanwhile, the jobs went to the drum. Due to a well-known pattern of management and withdrawal of money from the company, bankruptcy has been launched. All assets of the company are mortgaged. In the same way, money was drawn from the budget of the County of Požega-Slavon and one small municipality, the Municipality of Velika which are both in the blockade. Great Municipality for the height of one annual budget. The state, county and municipal authorities have made it possible to enrich the government of Rabbits illegally, and I hope you won't blame me for the logical conclusion that the unearned money Vlado Zac probably shared with those who made it possible for him. The bankruptcy of "The Stone of Ingrad" currently left 470 workers, while the citizens of the county and the Municipality of Velika were left without the money that they were making to build roads, water lines, sewers, sidewalks, kindergartens and similar facilities. The existence of about 400 small creditors, whom the Stone Ingrad can pull with it, has also been compromised. My question is: Will you and what do you do to re-employ 470 workers, to enable the operation of the Parochial and Municipality of the Great, or will the Government now, when money from possible support or guarantees will not end in the pocket of the Government of Rabbit, finance job rescue and further construction of the necessary infrastructure facilities in the area of the county and the municipality, which should be in favour of citizens, and not those who have so far and have violated and failed the trust of citizens and the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64339	Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64340	Madam MPs, the Croatian Government under my chairmanship will make sure that all Croatian counties, including Požega-Slavonska, are treated equally and that the same development for all Croatian counties is fully independent of who won early or regular elections and who is today in power in any county and so on in Požega-Slavon County. But there is one thing for the Croatian public that I have to correct, which is that the County is požega-slavonian in the blockade. That, ma'am, is simply not true. That's just not true. The county isn't in a blockade. Let us therefore not here on an important topic as to how problems in Požega-Slavon County will be solved by a political debate that is not based on facts. So the county isn't in a blockade. The other thing is with the Great Community, you're right there, but the county's not in a blockade. Now, we will, of course, very closely monitor everything that happens, the Ministry of Finance will send supervision, budgetary surveillance to see everything that is true, which is one side, which is the other side, etc., partly the Minister has already answered Mrs. Byte's question today. Therefore, what I can say here on the other side of the political bickering which was also of those who will in a few days form power in Požega-Slavon County, which have raised an entense of problems that no one will deny, but is not allowed to handle with false or distorted information. Therefore, we will follow the situation and of course we will take care first of all of all of all employees in Požega-Slavon County, and so will those mentioned by you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64341	Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64342	Mr. President, I didn't even try to politicize and don't throw it in my mouth. My question was concrete, but unfortunately the answer was not concrete at all. You say equal treatment. So you took care of the employees of "The Stone of Ingrad" and the citizens of Požega-Slavon County and the Municipality of Velika when their money was spent by Vlado Zec and in the county by the ruling HDZ. Today after the robbery, when care for workers and citizens was taken over by the bankruptcy manager, the Commissioner in the Municipality of Velika and the newly elected government in the county did not give such concrete answers. He was obviously important to you, Vlado Zec, most likely because of the votes in the county assembly and because he was ready to share the spoils, but it seems to me that much less important to you are these 470 workers who I have asked this question of which most of them live in the Municipality of Great, and the Municipality of Great is in an extremely difficult situation and I hope that, if the situation makes it difficult for her to appoint the Government to appoint a commissioner, disbanding what took place inaccessible, disbanding the then power that lasted inadmissiblely long, and I will hand you the fax of Slavonska banka, so if already the finance minister is not informed that you and Požega County is in a blockade.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64343	Thank you. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64344	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to the Ministry of the Interior, or Mr. Secretary Buconjic. The Government of the Republic of Croatia continuously provides funds for the implementation of measures set out in the National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006. Charters on the implementation of the programme have been signed together for affordable Croatia. An example. For projects of accessibility in the Republic of Croatia at local level, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in late 2004 and 2005 provided 2 million 934 thousand 928 kuna for the adjustment of public facilities in 17 cities, however, a large number of public institutions still inaccessible to persons with reduced mobility in the Republic of Croatia. My question is what does your ministry do to make it easier for people with disabilities, or persons with limited mobility to access, move, stay and work in individual police stations?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64345	State Secretary Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64346	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen. The Ministry of the Interior will surely follow this policy of the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity because both police administrations and individual police stations are where many citizens exercise their rights starting with the passage of personal documents and everything else that we do not meet every day in our daily lives. There are ramps in 11 police departments for access to disabled persons. In several police stations where personal documents are extracted, this issue is also resolved, and our goal is to ensure that by the end of the term of office in all police administrations where the ramps do not exist. One example of us dealing with this problem is the situation in Bjelovar. Namely, in Bjelovar as the headquarters of the police administration, the Ministry of the Interior opened a tender for the construction of the ramp, and the contract was concluded and signed with the contractor on April 19th. Under the contract, the ramp should be completed within 100 days so that somewhere in July, it is realistic to expect that all tents and all services will also be available to disabled persons in the police administration of Bjelovar-Belogorje. Otherwise, projects are also being done for several new police administrations and police stations, and in all these projects there are also ramps for accessing disabled persons in these facilities that are planned to be built. So, the answer to your question is that we will seek first and foremost in police administrations, since citizens are the largest part of their problems and solve in police administrations, and also in police stations where personal documents are issued, or where citizens have certain needs we will strive to reconstruct the construction of new stations to make these ramps within a reasonable short period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64347	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64348	Thank you very much. I'm glad it's done in Bjelovar. In the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, there are about 2,000 people with disabilities and they really need to be able to make these stations and administrations accessible.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64349	Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64350	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. My question will be asked by the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr Branko Vukelic and concerns the initial funds for the start of our craftsmen's business. The fact is that, apart from still bureaucratic long-term procedures for opening the crafts, the problem is also a lack of money, i.e. unfavourable loans from business banks. As your ministry, the question is this. How does your ministry plan to encourage further development of entrepreneurs, beginners who still have major problems in providing funds for start-up operations?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64351	Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64352	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representative, ladies and gentlemen. So, the question could be said at first sight simply and briefly, but it is very complex because the development of entrepreneurship as a whole and existing entrepreneurs and new is a very complex issue, but first of all, I want to say that a lot of things this government has done in these two and a little less than half years has done since simplified all of those administrative procedures that are important when either a new craft or a new company is opening up to and encouraging measures followed by entrepreneurs whether new or existing in its growth and development. I would just like to say briefly here on the HITRO HR project where we have reduced business registration from 30 to 60 days where in some places Croatia lasted about ten to fourteen days with the goal of being in one day. Also, we have reduced the costs of setting up the crafts, but this procedure is being done today only in two days. In a little less than a month, registration of the crafts will be possible via the Internet. But it is therefore a self-registration which is only one of the elements for the start of the entrepreneur. What is particularly important is how to encourage development and new entrepreneurs and those existing ones. And here we can share our activities that my ministry and government are carrying out in two parts... First, to stop that trend, the bad trend that the government has made, which is that the manufacturing sector and production in Croatia have been neglected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what this government encourages throughout this period is the development of production and promotion of production and food industrial production in the broadest sense of the word and 5% production growth in the beginning of this year over 5%. 5% last year says it has already been done to a significant extent. In order to have a growth in production, it is important to restructure and restructure the companies that make this production. So there is also a contribution to the development of entrepreneurship because many cooperatives work precisely for large companies and without large companies there is no story of the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. Therefore, it is also a very important programme to restructure our black metallurgy, Željezara Sisak and Split, which will soon experience its final phase through privatisation. Therefore, it is important to have a successful privatisation of the company in Zupanja which will attract more than 2,000 cooperatives, so small entrepreneurs, so it is also important that the shipbuilding that binds the operation is largely by itself. That's why it's not good today when we listen to the untruths about some kind of malfeasance of shipyards through supervisory committees because exactly the quality of these companies that don't create losses, which make a profit are the chances for entrepreneurs and the ones that are still going to become. And that's what we want to run, and that's why it is and that's why I'm going to say it very clearly here because I was sad again listening to the lies in this assembly. That's why the Supervisory Board in Split did not allow and prevented four contracts for tankers that were 36 million US dollars lower than we insisted on better contracts, and now they are contracts that are more than $30 million more favourable to the shipyard. And that means that out of those thirty million US dollars, at least five to ten million dollars will be in the pockets of small-scale shipbuilding contractors. And that is the goal and that is what the Croatian government is doing. But concrete programmes are being done to promote entrepreneurship from start to development. And that's where I want to say a series of concrete measures that we have, so entrepreneurs to start in their business a new entrepreneur. They will receive up to 80,000 kuna of grant support and for registration services, for registration itself, for the making of a business plan, for their education, for the purchase of IT equipment, and we have also provided favourable conditions for lending 2 to 4%. Also, through HAMAG, we have provided guarantees for entrepreneurs up to 80% of the credit, a maximum amount of one million and a half kuna where they can get a state guarantee, a guarantee from HAMAG that will stand behind them if they do not have their own property. So it's a series of measures that finally resulted in what I'm going to repeat here because they said those institutions that follow entrepreneurship in Croatia, which is that GA is a factor that measures the intensity of entrepreneurship, so the number of new companies and crafts that are created in Croatia compared to 2003 when it was 3.6, it was almost 7. So we almost doubled the number of new crafts and new businesses. This is the response of entrepreneurs to this policy of this Croatian government economically and this ministry and the best indicator that everything goes the way we initially and plotted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64353	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64354	I would like to thank Mr. Vukelic for this specific answer, and I am particularly impressed by these 80,000 kuna of grants, which are the real incentive for the opening of the crafts. I think that's what all beginners who are beginners will say hello and take a very specific job with their heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64355	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivy Sanader. In recent years, Mr. President, in the area of special state care among the population or Croatian families who use houses and apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia, the government panics and concerns about why the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has made a calculation of the amount of rent for family houses or state-owned apartments in the area of special state care. The rent is set at 2 kuna and 36 lip per square metre of space. So far, these Croatian families have moved from various parts of the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina and so on. They paid 100 kuna per month and from now they should pay rent from 300 to 800 kuna per month regardless of the location, so the village of the city. We need to know that these families are social cases, and they won't be able to pay that kind of rent. I note that these families have been living in suspense for their future for the 11th year. The question is how and when is the government going to solve this burning and big problem that weighs more than 50,000 Croatian people in the area of special state care?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64357	Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64358	Mr. Representative, I highly appreciate your concern for these people settlers in areas of special state concern, but the situation is different. They got a rental solution at the price you said of 2 kuna 36 lip just so that in the fall when the purchase of these apartments they would have regulated status. If they didn't have contracts like they didn't have contracts so far, they'd live in those apartments and buildings without a contract, they wouldn't be able to buy those apartments in the fall at privileged prices. And now it's the next thing. So we took the first step as a guess that people who live in those apartments and houses can buy at very low prices of apartments that this action will take in the fall. That's number one. Number two, and for those people who have so far paid a 100-dollar fee, a solution is required. For the time being, they have only received a solution to what they have to pay until the payments are yet to arrive in June. Until then, Minister Calmete's ministry has a mission, we work in the government, but it's a resolute ministry, to find a solution and to offer all people two options there. First we subsidize that rent, so the state subsidizes that rent to them or that rent, so two kunas, 36 limes per square metre, will be included tomorrow at the price of buying the apartment, will be included tomorrow at the price of buying the apartment. We give them a 20 to 30-year-old loan with very privileged conditions and that's how we handle it. So all we've been doing is starting a process for these people to finally get an apartment and a house owned, and this social problem is going to be solved this way. And the Regional Offices of the Ministry of Reconstruction, so the Office of Reconstruction will do a survey with all people and ask which of these are the two solutions? Are they in favor of subsidizing them? Then they'll pay as much as any other ransom apartment if they want to buy it, I guess they will. The action will start in the fall. Or they'll be able to include that rent in the price of the apartment tomorrow, but on a 20 to 30-year-old loan as agreed upon under privileged terms. So I think this is great news for our people. /Applause./ [[- Good job.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64359	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64360	Yeah. It could be said, "They live great but they're not even aware." So I'm in contact with these families in the field of special state care starting with Knin, Korenica, Dvora, Petrinja, Banovina, Pounja. I have information that these people are thinking of moving to third countries if they are unable to pay rent. ... It's not fair, I understand everything, I'm partially satisfied with your answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But it's okay to provide them with either a ransom or another way to solve the problem. It's not right for these people to charge that rent from January 1st. And in June, send them a payment card. So how is someone like a social case going to pay 800 kuna a month for half a year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64361	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64362	Mr. President, I ask my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Mr. President, you said about the price of oil and oil derivatives that "honey Moon" had passed. So the honeymoon's over, and I'm asking you, how long will it take for "honey Moon" for those who robbed the state in conversion and privatisation? For them, the honeymoon or "honey Moon" has been going on for 15 years. The results of the revision of conversion and privatisation are the least defeated. For 1481 cases of 1556, 95.17% were found to be uncontested that privatisation was carried out in an illegal manner. There are, there is also the case and representatives of the present tobacco factory Zagreb, there is the case Name and all others. And then on December 15th, last year we reached conclusions at the session of the Croatian Parliament. Those conclusions are unfortunately a dead letter on paper. Of those eight conclusions, none of them have been carried out, and here it has been five months. If these conclusions are carried out with this dynamic in 1481, then none of them will ever be carried out. What is the government going to do? Is she bound? And when will the honeymoon for those who robbed the Croatian state end? And that's why, in response to the government, you put pressure on the judiciary when you say it's okay, that it's a TDR business decision, and it's slow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64363	The Prime Minister. ... Ivo Sanader. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64364	What are you clapping for? I'm clapping this now to the answer that will follow. Like this. Dear Mr. Representative, first of all, I will not allow pears and apples to interfere in Croatia. In Croatia, there is a trio of government. To the executive, which is the government, the legislative which is Parliament and the judiciary. And, and the conclusions you've made and I appeal to all state bodies to do what the Parliament has concluded. And it can't be called the government because it's politics, Mr. Advocacy, and in past terms you've been part of this government and the executive government, and if someone had referred you a question like this while you were at the Department of Defense with Djur Njavar, you would have answered him just as much as I answer you right now. And as Leticia would answer. So, according to that, I see it's subfling. So here's the deal. Well, he knows himself. You don't need to sufflage him. Let the man go. But politics won't go away. And it's not the government, what you've now politically demagoguely appealed to the people up here who I welcome and who I spoke to before the Parliament began. You can't afford the grades you said, what demagogue nature they are. In its response, the government did not prejudge the decision of the judiciary. Absolutely not. But what the Government has written is that the TDR’s management, or the Adris Group, has the right to make a decision on the transfer of one factory or one plant. It's their autonomous decision. And that's what the government can make no decisions about, and that's why the government can't make any decisions. That's what we wrote. But also, I'm going to do it again. I find it extremely rude, I find it extremely missed that the administration of the Adris Group, companies that are extremely good at business... Which extremely... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So what good is it doing? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: The Croatian people are suffering!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64365	Without that controversy, please, please! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64366	Well, he's not poisoning because whoever wants to smoke, he buys his own cigarettes. They don't give him that for free.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64367	Peace about that smoking! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64368	But, Mr. Letica, these people made their salary on that. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64369	... Prime Minister, Agent Letica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64370	But I have to answer him when he comes into my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64371	Not to him. You answer
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64372	But when I answer, well, Mr. President, I respect the Parliament, but then I ask you to tell counsel Letica that she's not breaking in...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64373	Leave MP Flight alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64374	I'll leave Agent Letty alone. Okay. Mr. Representative Kovacevic, so the government and I are personally looking for and appealing to the management of the Adria Group and Rovinj Tobacco Factory that these people who are in Zagreb, others who do not want to go to Kanfanar and are entitled to do so. And they're right about that, and I want to make that very clear. To sit down with them at the table and try to solve the problem. As a government, we can only appeal. We have no executive powers or powers to intervene in this. It's about the relationship between the management and the workers, and no matter how fierce you get, that demagogy won't go away. We ask that the Adris Group does its job, and their job as I consider it is to agree with the workers, to find a solution even though there is a possibility of production in Zagreb to do so, to do so. And everything else is demagogy. And you can't give yourself over to the government. The government is not an addressee for your demagogues /Applause./ [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64375	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, and those who are at the gallery, there is, everyone has to listen without throwing, without any signs. It is as in every European Parliament as it will be in the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64376	Mr. Prime Minister, you're in demagogy and politics, not me. Read the point of the eighth conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. He says: “It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure all necessary conditions for the work of the competent state authorities of the State and the Croatian Privatisation Fund in particular in order to take the necessary measures and activities in order to determine nullity and annulment. You're ordering the State's Attorney's Office because it's state property. Read the law! So your answer is demagogy and politics, and you're mixing pears and apples, because you need to order the State's Attorney's office to do its job. Read the Law on State's Attorney's Office, read the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, and then we can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64377	Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64378	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, presidents and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Okay? So the question is to Mr. Shuker. The use of the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia is extremely important from an economic aspect. Besides...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64379	A little bit of backup for two octave conversations! Turn it up, as weak as you can hear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64380	Therefore, the use of the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia is extremely important from an economic aspect. In addition, concession revenues are significant but I think they can be a much larger part of the state budget's revenue. My question is, what activities the Government has taken and what it intends to continue to do to regulate this important segment of economic policy. Therefore, regulation of the issue of the use of natural resources and the collection of revenue from concessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64381	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64382	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, maybe this data I'm about to present will surprise you and shock you. At this point, there are about 6 and a half thousand concession contracts for 40 activities that have been concluded by about five hundred units of local self-government. However, by the time this government arrived, no one had to worry about putting it in one place, that it should be placed on the Ministry's website, and that every citizen could see on what condition someone had gotten some kind of gravel, some quarry, some water supply, a taxi service or something like that, and probably not today would be transferring as in the Assembly today that someone had forgiven something, but it would be possible to see how much they were obliged and how much someone had not paid, and so we decided to establish a concession register in the Republic of Croatia. That job's about done. The Ministry of Finance and the FINA have done the job. In the past two years, we have had a lot of problems that out of the five hundred units of local self-government we get concession contracts and that we can get these information on contracted concessions and fees into the system and that already in the second half of this year we publish it on the website of the Ministry of Finance. And what I said when I spoke in response to my colleague byte's question I'm going to say now. The write-off is a write-off so no matter who made it, so we have a case that when the Headship of the City of Rijeka writes off the debt to its members of the Headship and members of their family it's ok. and when a correction is made illegally obtained by the conclusion of the State Inspectorate and the State Attorney's Office, then the Prime Minister and his Government have done something illegal. However, for the sake of the public and for the full political tension that has been made around Kapeningrad, around the town of Požega, around Požega-Slavon County, it should be said that the State Inspectorate in 2003 established the illegally acquired profit of Kapeningrad and therefore established certain fees to be paid according to the state budget. However, what the State Attorney's Office later proposed, which is that, for the acquisition of that illegally acquired profits, this company had certain costs and that the State Inspectorate did not include when calculating that illegal gain and for that amount, the liabilities of that company to the State were reduced and there was no denunciation, because this was done for several other companies that had an entirely identical record made by the State Inspectorate. However, I repeat for 6600 concession contracts, for 40 activities the result of the announcement that the concession register will appear is that in the first 4 months with the basis of the concession and right here I must say it is not about the payment of concessions for the third GSM network, but precisely for these concessions that we are talking about are higher by 45% or almost 30 million kuna in the first four months. You will see when the concession register is published how much will boost the income of local self-government units, because unfortunately, in many cases, the forces of local self-government units after a powerful economic operator in their territory were not such as to charge that concession, so ultimately, this is probably the case of the Great. However, the concession register will certainly bring the newspaper into use of natural resources in the Republic of Croatia. It will benefit both the budget and the units of local self-government, so municipalities, cities and counties, and also the effect of this concession register will be seen in the state budget and then you will see that many unfortunately in previous years did not pay what they had to pay for the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64383	Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64384	I thank the Minister for his reply, and I think even with what we've heard, we can be happy with the answer. I'll do it again, because I especially believe that it's an important concession register, the possibility that anyone who wants to see who has a concession for which natural wealth. Where, with which unit of local self-government and I'm sure there will be a lot less arguments and elements for some times than politicizing so far using unknown elements and data that are still something different than those that use them and use them in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64385	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64386	Thank you, Mr. President, and I'm asking the Prime Minister a question. The foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia increased by over 700m euros in the first two months of this year and amounted to over 26 billion and reached 85% of gross social product. At the same time, the internal debt at the end of January of this year, according to the finance ministry, was about 48 billion. So somewhere also about 6 billion euros. Just two and a half years ago, Mr. President, you personally spoke about Argentine syndrome and debt crisis. Now that the debt rose by one-third from 2003 in early 2006 and amounts to what you liked to say about 7,000 euros per capita, you are silent. At that time, you were very happy to talk about the responsibility of every child you were born with. You don't even talk about it today. The new debts are unfortunately not due to dynamic economic growth, high national investment. On the contrary. He is late for gasification, there is nothing to do with the progress of the Croatian Railways. So I'm asking you, how long do you think the inability to create new government projects will increase, and the increase in economic growth and employment remains at the same level for several years, making up for debt by both countries and citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64387	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64388	... The world's getting closer and I'm gonna take a picture right out of football. [[Specially enabled.]] This is a great center shot for the love you just gave me. In fact, over the past two and a half years, public and external debt in that part of the country has been reduced by a total of 7%. So from 24 to 17. We all know, and they know, and for those who don't know, I will repeat, external debt is structured, Mr. Representative from three sources, one is banks, the other is the population, and the third is the state, the state. And that's what we've been criticizing you since you've been back in time. I wasn't going to, but if you're looking. When we criticized the former government as an opposition, we criticized you because the government was doing nothing to her. The government cannot affect banks, this is the relationship between the Central Bank, the Croatian National Bank and the banks. And that's where the central bank takes its steps. The government cannot influence the population. I'd rather have credits taken a lot more for production than for consumption. But we can't influence that. But where we can influence, we've done it. We've cut 700 million dollars in foreign debt to the state in the last two and a half years. And that's the exact results, that's the figures, that's the statistics. And we can only speak based on statistics, we can't speak based on impressions. And one more thing. So that's what this government did. It reduced the debt in the country's share, from the three factors that make up the external debt. And one more thing. When we reduced the deficit that we took from you, which was 6.3% today to 4.1%) in 2005, and in this year we intend to reduce it to 3.3% and in 2007, the goal is to go below 3% of the deficit, which will be a "master" criterion, although we will not enter the monetary union for many years yet. But we're gonna cut that debt and that deficit. That's what we're doing. And imagine what the external debt would be if we hadn't reduced the deficit from 6.3 to 4.1%. Therefore, Madam Representative, with all due respect. This government has done far more than you could dream. Debt was reduced in that part of the state by 700 million dollars.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64389	Dear Representative Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64390	Thank you. I'm not this kind of football expert as our Prime Minister, but I'm also gonna use maybe a little sporty this. Because this is how you centered the ball on me. Namely, citizens are not interested in your knowledge of football skills. They want to know how much less I can buy today for what I get out of my income. They want to know why they pay bigger taxes, and you said they'd pay less taxes. They want to know why I can't get a job. They want to know why their health costs went up in the last two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64391	Order! Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64392	And when you talk about the deficit, look at the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64393	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64394	In the last issue of the Croatian National Bank report. They continue to account for 4.9% of the deficit for 2003. However, the latest data from our State Statistics is that the growth of the state, gross social product... The deficit is lower. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] You failed to maintain high growth, but you brought it down to 4.3 to 4.5.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64395	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Order! Strawberries Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64396	Thank you very much. My question is to the Minister of Culture, Master of God's Bishop. And this is about cultural heritage, about the protection of cultural heritage, that is, in this matter of my own, about the possibility of taking the City of Trogir off UNESCO's protected cultural heritage list and not caring. This was reported by some public reports about the devastions in the protected Trogir core. Is there a question of my own? Is there really such a possibility that the City of Trogir can be removed from that list of protected cultural heritage of UNESCO? Did the Ministry of Culture react, or check out the situation in one of the cities on UNESCO's list? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64397	Minister of Culture Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. Since the MPs have no fear, UNESCO will not be stripped of its protection to the City of Trogir. The truth is, the media wrote about it with full law, because there are some individuals who think they can destroy the whole for their own breakthroughs, that means the whole of this time a top-notch protected whole of the City of Trogir, a city that is in such a high-ranking place as UNESCO's list. And I've sent in inspection services that have been audited. They have, of course, identified irregularities and will react together with the inspection of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. The solutions have already been written. And I think we'll succeed in any case not only to preserve, but also to increase protection. Last week, the government appointed the Conservatory Department in the only city, a city that has not had the Conservation Department, because it has Dubrovnik, it has Split, it has Sibenik and there is one part in Poreč. Therefore, we now have in Trogir a Conservation Department that will take care of Trogir and Kaštel, about the entire cultural heritage reality. I established a Committee on the Monitoring and Planning of Implementation Measures for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in the City of Trogir itself which will also worry and control the same implementation of measures in all UNESCO cities on the UNESCO list. And in any case, we're not going to let as I said that individuals devastation destroy such a valuable whole that we inherited, which we really owe to preserve for the next generation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64399	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64400	Thank you very much. I hope that these measures will not only apply to the heritage protected in UNESCO because we have a lot of what has been trying to devastate in one way or another in a wild upgrade, but also in a protected cultural heritage past UNESCO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64401	Dear representative, Vice President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64402	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. In "Latinica" on 24.4.2006, an annex was published, which based on the testimony of the witness, accused the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Vice Vukojevic, of raping her repeatedly in a concentration camp at the time of the war. The same show also said that Judge Vukojevic refused to comment on the charges. Since these charges have, in my assessment, come directly into question the credibility of one of the fundamental institutions of the Republic of Croatia, since these accusations have already appeared in the media, among others, and in the "Feral Tribunale", but I felt that I was not the first because there is probably another, including the Constitutional Court itself, the competent authorities that could have initiated this, but did not, we have sent to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to initiate the procedure, since this is the committee in charge of the procedure for constitutional judges, to initiate the procedure of the interim suspension of Judge Vukojevic in order to allow the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia to examine the justification of such claims. Since your government has a majority in this committee as well as in Parliament, my question to you, Mr. President, is, will you support me, or will you support me, whether your majority in the committee and in Parliament will, if that happens, support the request to investigate these charges and allow the competent authorities to act in accordance with these powers and determine whether it is true that the Constitutional Court judge Vukojevic raped a woman in a concentration camp.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64403	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64404	Madam MPs, I think you've referred your question to the wrong address. And I'm interested in whether it's true, because it's rightfully appeared in the media over the past few years, and now it's been updated again a month ago on that television show. However, neither the government nor the parliamentary board can take the decision and say anything in this case, except to appeal to the judiciary to act as in any other case. Judge of the Constitutional Court, representative, minister, railway worker, fisherman or anyone else is equal before the law, and in that sense I hold that it would be good for you to refer your initiative to the body responsible for this, which is the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64405	Vice-President, respected representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64406	Thank you. I'm not happy Mr. President with your answer, since the board is competent to request the State's Attorney's office to launch such an investigation. I have asked directly, the board is in charge, therefore I ask your support in making decisions on board, to refer to the State's Attorney's office a request to investigate this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64407	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64408	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. My question is about the National Road Traffic Safety Programme in the Republic of Croatia. The obligation of the Ministry of the Interior was to adopt the National Road Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the next four-year period. I ask the Secretary of State, Mr. Ivica Buconjic, to briefly explain how the most important projects in the programme are financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64409	Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You're right, Mr. Culjak, when you say the government was supposed to bring in the program, the National Road Traffic Safety Programme and the government did so at its meeting on February 23rd, 2006. This programme, i.e. measures and activities under the programme, shall be financed from several sources. One of the sources should be funds from criminal penalties, then funds from the Croatian Autoclub and the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia and funds from premiums that charge insurance houses. From all of these sources, funds are made and paid in a larger or smaller amount, by being able to be the most dissatisfaction with insurance houses, since only Croatia's insurance and general insurance have signed a contract with the MUP and are involved in financing activities under the national road safety programme of the Republic of Croatia, while the HAC and the Centre for Vehicles are setting up their own funds, i.e. their obligations. From these sources, around 65 million kuna has been provided so far, and it is planned by this national programme to obtain equipment from these funds, to finance projects, to finance preventive promotional activities and other activities that can contribute to improving the situation in road safety. I'll tell you one piece of information that will in itself tell you enough how important this issue is. In Croatia, 45 thousand 498 people have been killed in the past 50 years since 1955, so in Croatia over the past 50 years, an entire city has been killed in traffic. But what is also encouraging is that, thanks to the implementation of this national programme in Croatia, for the first time since 1967, less than 600 traffic participants have died. 598 traffic participants died last year for the first time in 40 years below 600 people in traffic. It means the measures implemented by the MUP including these measures under the national programme deliver results. We have a growing number of traffic accidents, a growing number of seriously injured, injured and material damage in transport are becoming less and less. It is certain that such results have also contributed to these measures under the national programme. We're still implementing this program with the funds I said. Public procurement processes are under way, which will certainly be of great benefit to the Transport Police in the continued repression of the number of traffic accidents and in the further repression of these most difficult consequences arising from traffic, so that car procurement is under way, security cameras, speed measurement apparatus and all other devices and equipment that will certainly contribute to the improvement of safety. Also, preventive promotional activities and several projects are being carried out. By the end of this financial year, surely all the funds raised in the national programme will be spent, and I am sure that this good trend in reducing the number of the most badly injured persons in transport will be as good and that Croatia will in the next few years get closer to that of our ultimate goal, which is that the number of people killed to 100 thousand people from 13 and a half as far as we now go down to below 10. Because we believe that the virtually greatest and first and primary objective of this programme is to reduce the number of deaths, since human victims do not have a price, and we will also reduce the number of traffic accidents. There will be a reduction in material damage, easily and severely injured in transport. Therefore, this programme is implemented, gives good results, and as more resources are available, we will certainly have more opportunities to achieve even better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64410	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64411	So this issue of implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme is extremely important for a large number of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, but also for all people visiting the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore important to provide sufficient resources for all measures to contribute to greater transport security and thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64412	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64413	It's a question for the Prime Minister. These days, Mr. Prime Minister, as part of the debate on oil and oil prices, the issue of Croatia's energy strategy is being raised dramatically, as well as the issue of domestic production of oil and oil products. Of course, according to EU standards. As in 2002, the INA business plan supported by the strategic partner MOL was planned to modernise both refineries between 2003 and 2007. So both Sisak and Rijeka, and as we are here in mid-2006 in which the project of modernization of Rijeka was to be completed this year, the Rijeka Refinery, as the contract for basic engineering and license with Chevron and ABB Lubis was signed in August 2003. The project was completed in 2004. According to the "cooperation agreement" between the MOL and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, MOL supported the implementation of the objectives, therefore it is not a problem in the 2003/2007 business plan. They've booked $344 million for those investments. As further progress, as we had the opportunity to hear for a little while, the audited investments were provided additionally to $668 million. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, not Mr. Polancec, next. How do you explain this unacceptable delay in investments in Croatian refineries and do you consider yourself responsible for it as a representative of the majority owner? What are you going to justify delaying modernisation until 2011? How will we supply our market with fuel of E5 quality until modernization is complete? What happens to these assets with a $400 million loan? This is the biggest credit INA has ever received and the most favourable credit any Croatian company has been able to secure? What about the retained INA profits foreseen for these investments? Do you know, Mr. Prime Minister, that this has put into question the profitability of the INA at times and conditions of its further privatisation? How long will the Sisans swallow an intolerable smell and what will happen to 15 thousand INA employees by then?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64414	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64415	Mr. Representative, you have asked a whole series of important questions that are of interest not only to Siscane but also to Rijeka, but also to all of Croatia, because it is not just about these cities where the refineries are, but to all of us. Well, I'll answer a few of those questions that seem to me to be the most important. First, why isn't the modernization of refineries continued and not even started at a pace that would allow this modernisation to end in the next year or two days? Well, first of all, for a few reasons. First, because the former government has provided a small number of funds. Secondly, because there was no study on environmental impacts. Third, that wasn't even a local license. Fourth, because you didn't order anyone in the government to deal with this problem. So there was no coordinator, there was not one person who would deal with this problem. The fifth, retained profit of INA was used for losses in previous years. And we've come to terms today, today they've come to terms and modernization will be, that's what I can personally stand behind. Modernisation will be completed in both refineries, both Sisak and Rijeka, by 2010. That's the goal, that's what's real and we can stop behind that. By then, we'll have to deal with each other, and we won't blame each other because this is about the energy policy that concerns all of us in Croatia, and I'm about to forget politics here, forget about rivalry, let's say, let's say what happened before, what were the reasons why it didn't work out, how it could have gone faster. It didn't work out, let's let it go, let's concentrate now on ending both refineries by 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64416	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64417	I cannot, Mr. Prime Minister, with all your arguments accept such an answer. Namely, it ends this year for the 3 years of power and responsibility your government has assumed. It can't even be an excuse that that's exactly what you said, and I don't think you have good data. The contract was signed and it wouldn't have been signed if it hadn't been for all this stuff you're talking about. The fact that there's been a re-use, to put it this way, or an increase in the scope of investment, that's the thing that could have been done in walking. There's nothing to do with a contract that was signed in 2002, so I can't accept that we're saying to the former government that at some point by the way she did her job, we can't also say that out of those 15,000 people who work in the INA were they professional enough not to make an investment project, and that implicates it coming out of your answer. It can't be said that money couldn't be found, money for investment in the oil industry didn't have any problem, I guess it took us three years to find it. So these aren't the reasons and responsibility for this delay is primarily and exclusively on you and please write a written answer to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64418	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64419	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer my question to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dr. Draga Primorac. Mr Minister, we have witnessed a series of changes in the Croatian education system, changes in science and technology. To my question, I must say, I was encouraged by your letter from the first congress of Croatian scientists from home and abroad that I recently received as a member of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports. I think the Croatian public on this area of science, on development, on what makes the ministry really knows little. The media finds that Croatia is moving with a new science and technology policy from 2006 to the period 2010 for which it received the support of the World Bank. Please tell us and the Croatian public exactly what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64420	Thank you. Minister of Science Primorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64421	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. In short, the European Union has chosen an important different concept of the development of society, which is the unification of educational and scientific research space. Croatia set out to do so and after two years of negotiations with hundreds of foreign experts and a whole army of Croatian scientists brought a single policy that plays a key role in all those scientific results that remained as scientific results through applied research and integration with the economy. In this regard, Croatia has made several priorities in its national policy in 2006 and 2010. One of these priorities is to increase the detachment by 3% of GDP in the wake of the Lisbon Declaration, the reconstruction of public scientific institutes, and the World Bank's loan is extremely significant because 31m euros plus about 9m euros provided by the Croatian government. It includes the reconstruction of key institutes such as the shipping institute, the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, but the creation of agencies e.g. by model to... The Institute, the pride of Israel, where the first scientific results will be commercialized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What can Croatia do? Croatia can do so with a very clear policy, but with the united intelligence of Croatian scientists from country and abroad, and therefore there is this Chamber. Croatia has also allocated $5m to connect and create a network of Croatian scientists in the country and abroad. By now 15 have been returned in the last year and a half, and around 10 plans this year. I have to point out here that this was all a prerequisite for us to move into a whole new national policy. As of this year, foreign reviewers from Ireland, Hungary, Slovenia, Austria are doing a review of Croatian projects, but Croatian scientists are also participating in the review of their projects. And an extremely important piece of information. Croatia probably came to number one of all countries in the transition to withdraw funds, so far it has been Slovakia or the Czech Republic. Croatia has already paid 3.1m euros today, and the rest has withdrawn 5.9m euros for 6 months. This best speaks about the strength of the Croatian scientific community and this project will be resolved very successfully by 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64422	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64423	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This is a really significant step in the development of our education system, especially science, I said in my question, but I think our public, and the ministry and you personally would have to talk more about it and in the media to pay particular attention to this because I think that this is a beautiful future for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64424	Thank you. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64425	A question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. The European Commission's initiative to establish a free trade zone between the Western Balkan countries has recently been replaced in Bucharest by a far more rational initiative by Croatian Prime Minister Dr. Sanaders who have accepted and all the competent authorities of the European Commission. The signing of a joint declaration on the expansion of CEFTA by the current regional economic co-operation based on a network of 30 bilateral free trade contracts should be replaced by a single multilateral contract, the creation of a single market based on this CETA offers Croatia numerous opportunities to increase its economic cooperation with the Southeast European countries which are still unfortunately not fully used. Croatia should be strongly motivated to confirm its leading economic strength and role in the region through stronger exports to the area and thus speed up government and economic growth and development in order to encourage and launch Croatian companies and economic operators more strongly in this regard, we lack systematic analyses that would include an assessment of Croatia's economic strength and competitiveness, the competitive advantages of the Croatian economy compared to the other Member States of the new EFTA. Currently, research on investment, privatisation and economic prospects in Southeast Europe is also dealing with a number of prominent institutions and scientific institutes in Europe. Can you specifically say, given that the long-term and strategic importance of this area for the economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia, how much currently scientific institutions in Croatia are dealing with the comparative analysis of the advantages that the Croatian economy can have in this area and what about the idea and need to organise an appropriate international conference that would address the perspectives of economic growth and development of Southeastern Europe, which Croatia should also host, which could and should become traditional?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64426	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64427	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Assembly Attorney, ladies and gentlemen. Well, in one statement, we absolutely agree, which is that the economic potential of this region is much greater than we all use together today. Let me, among other things, and as a man who comes from the food industry only mention one irrefutable fact, which is that today the fastest growing food market for agricultural products throughout Europe is exactly the market for the Southeast European region. As you yourself have said, today's trade between Member States for full membership in CEFTA is carried out through 30 bilateral trade agreements. The CEFTA should harmonize the trade system, so it should define a new multilateral contractual framework. The Croatian economy as the undoubtedly most developed economy in this region of the new treaty and such a multilateral framework should certainly benefit the most. Let me remind you all together that the trade of goods in Croatia is precisely with the countries of the future CEFTA that we are achieving a surplus here. The new multilateral agreement should further liberalise trade and trade rules, which only confirms the fact that we should have even more opportunities, the chance to increase our surplus in trade trade with future CEFTA members. So, as far as your idea of organising a conference is concerned, I have to say I'm very positive for that idea. I believe that such a conference would be of great help primarily to the Croatian economy and when we talk about analyses of the comparative advantages of the Croatian economy and the possibility of using these comparative advantages better, I also talk intensively to my office and I also know the Ministry of Economics, Labour and Entrepreneurship with a whole series of very important institutions, such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Employers' Association, the National Competitiveness Council and some other Croatian exporters, etc. What I know to date is that it is commissioned, what I know to date is that, by my order, it is an analysis for individual sectors, for certain economic branches, future opportunities for the use of benefits provided by the new multilateral trade agreement. Thank you very much for asking. So if you have any other ideas about this conference, I will be very open and free to talk to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64428	Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Certainly what surprised me especially and the main reason why I asked this question is the fact that a number of prominent institutes in Berlin, London, Milan are dealing with the analysis of this market. Some people from these areas work in these institutes, and unfortunately I have not had the opportunity to see scientists and experts coming from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This kind of scientific support for the success of the Republic of Croatia in these markets will be very important and significant and therefore I support everything you have said, a stronger and more organised effort in this regard will be very important. Success belongs to technologically superior ones who are more creative, organized and agile in that space. I certainly believe and hope that it will be the Republic of Croatia and that its political reputation in this area will be affirmed by the fact that it is also the most economically agile, most successful because it is a very important reference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64430	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64431	I have a question for Prime Minister Sanader. Mr. Prime Minister, let's finally resolve a dilemma that has been discussed in both the professional and the political public in general. In fact, according to your proposal for a law, and quite contrary to all academic principles, children of volunteers and wartime disabled persons were allowed to enter high schools without paying tuition last summer. This, however, has led to total chaos and has even questioned the implementation of the Bologna process. That it is not only my political interpretation that proves it is also the recent conclusions of the rector's choir that announces the rise of registration thresholds and the reduction of quotas, of course, to the harm of all students. That legal provision also opposes the Union of Science and the entire professional public. But it's nothing new than you and each other. But, dear Prime Minister, we now have a very interesting situation. The requirements of the profession were also approached by Minister Primorac, who said, quote: "The only criteria for enrolment in educational institutions should be excellence. This year we are obliged to comply with the law, but for next year other solutions should be considered." On the other hand, Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor remains lonely in insisting on a privileged entry. It was announced by your government and the government's session to finally resolve the problem. Now I'm asking you, since the deadlines for enrollment are coming in next academic year when will be this cabinet session, or what is your personal position? Will you support Minister Kosor, or the entire professional public and Minister Primorac?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64432	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64433	Madam MPs, there is no doubt that excellence must be a fundamental principle, but there is also no doubt that the defenders and their families made an enormous sacrifice in the Homeland War. And now, instead of your dilemma or-or we're going to say I. What is it going to look like and, so we want a typical wine situation, we're going to deal with the profession on which you rightly insist. So, the rectory assembly, Minister Primorac, Vice President Kosor. We're not going to confront them, but we're going to face arguments. And I will support what waist together, because that waist is not in the air of empty space. She's not somewhere in a country where there wasn't a war, she's not in a country where there was prosperity and peace in the '90s. The profession is located in a country that has been at war for six years or five years, which won the Homeland War. This profession is located in a country that was occupied by January 15, 1998, I am talking about Podunavlje, I am talking about Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem. Therefore, that profession must take care of this too. But since it is clear to all of us in Croatia, at least to us in the government, it is clear that we must have far more students than we have today. And if we were just going to have you on the agenda today, the President of the Parliament has placed it, you have also voted for the new opening of the University of Pula. God forbid we have even more of such small universities, that we have even more of a high school so that kids who come, high school kids who come to colleges in the Bologna process can because we need as many students as we have today. Here, Minister Primorac nods, so the information is correct. If we want to race and if we want to compete with the modern world, we have too few students. And it's also a problem that too few students finish colleges. That's another bigger problem. And that's why I think here in this matter, we're going to respect the profession, respecting all that you said we'd find a solution, so we're not going to bring down the threshold of excellence that we're going to find a solution in cooperation with the rectorial choir and associations that came out of the Homeland War, or Vice President Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64434	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64435	The fact is that the basis of this Law was to enroll in the study of people with fewer points only because they were children of defenders or disabled persons than those who achieved better results and who were more excellent. Thus, the "win-win" situation does not go away. As far as the profession is concerned, you have A very simple job because the waist here is unique. [["Peace"! Order!]] Both the Syndicate and the Rector's Assembly, all the universities and all the public opinion research talk about over 80% of the support for amending that law. And I'm calling you to mind, I was hoping that you would answer me like many times until now when your government screws up, when it creates some kind of problem that you as a savior will come and solve the problem with some minor, innocent victims, so here I am inviting you from this place to go on a rescue mission like that. To solve this problem to these college enrolments, and in an additional answer I ask you to give me so that this rescue mission will go because indeed beyond the criteria of excellence there must be no enrolment in colleges, and that is exactly what you have done with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64436	Written, written in writing. Honorable representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64437	Thank you. A question for the Minister of Science, Mr. Primorac. I notice a steady stalemate in the development of the University of Dubrovnik. That's based on the statements of people from academic circles, local politics and so on. In fact, it is about financial reasons perhaps a lack of involvement of localities, and this is related to the whole issue of regional universities development. We have just heard that on the agenda is the question of the University of Pula which is for every praise, but there are some other indications that concern you. It is said that the University of Zagreb is defending its professors a lecture at regional universities. Or on the contrary, it conditiones the creation of new branches in a way that they become exposures of the University of Zagreb. My question is, what is the position of the Ministry? Is there a concept in the Ministry of Regional University Development? Is there a concept of university specialization not to be duplicated? Is there a concept of postgraduate studies that would have an international character?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64438	Minister of Science Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64439	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I will try to be very clear and concise. The absolute support of this government, you know that we speak very clearly of Croatia as a knowledge-based society is excellence. Croatia is most likely after the University of Pula, which is the position and the National Council Croatia will be very careful about opening new major universities but small universities yes. I'll give you examples of Dubrovnik, and that will best tell you the figures of what the Croatian government has done. With regard to the 2005 Budget, which amounted to 25 million for the University of Dubrovnik this year, the budget is 37 million or an increase of almost 50%. This is the largest budget increase for any university in the Republic of Croatia at all. Although the average budget increase is about 25% in general for education in the country. Another information that is extremely important we have done maximum about Dubrovnik University and here is my full support for you. At the beginning, when we started out with about a hundred people who had an academic title, there were 20 doctors of science. Today there are 44 doctors of science at Dubrovnik University. Of course, it's impossible for me as a minister to question the autonomy of the university. And the University of Zagreb, which you yourself know, can have certain competition or competence towards individual student programmes. But I'll answer that question. For the first time, the National Council and the Ministry agreed that they could not establish universities or duplicate study programmes. We have the best example of Slavonski Brod and Požega. We said not within 20 kilometers. And it's a national policy run by this government. Otherwise Dubrovnik definitely received full policy, this, and full support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry. At the moment Dubrovnik is struggling, I would say a regional policy that must be resolved on certain properties where again regarding the old hospital, you have alluded to, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given full support. Because it is not owned by the Government of the Republic of Croatia but by other institutions and we are waiting for it to be resolved. And at this point, capital investment to solve the recession goes to about 8 million kuna. And I'll tell you one more thing, I can see it's bright red at the end. We only hired 1,000 scientific recruits in two years and about 800 teachers at Croatian universities. Which is the largest number in 16 years. Exactly because of this development policy that you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64440	Honorable representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64441	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64442	Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64443	Thank you very much. My question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. Namely, Croatia is a country with great potential in the wood processing industry sector and the wood processing industry currently employs a total of 23,000 workers. Of which 11 and 600 in primary and 11 and 300 in the final sector. It employs a large number of high-level workers of all professions and profiles that complement each other and employs qualified and unqualified workers. Its long-term development is based on the use of natural resources primarily has a high share of domestic raw materials, a wide dispersion of businesses in all counties and the possibility of high levels of employment in small places where it is often the only source of population income. Traditionally it is export-oriented, and rather than being an advantage and a basis for further development, it is a burden and brake in further development as well as for all other exporters, and especially exporters with a working intensive activity. From year to year, the final sector is stagnating, and the primary sector, i.e. The lowest stage of processing has increased and increased participation in exports and, according to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, exports of raw materials and semi-products amounted to $366m in 2005. Exporting furniture 245 million, and importing furniture 326 million, which is 33% more than exporting furniture. To compare the export of furniture to our neighbouring Slovenia which managed to restructure its wood industry is 2.7 times larger than ours. In fact, somewhere around a million and a billion and a half million. According to data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce executed the cut of Croatian forests in 2005 of the total cut for wood mills, the most valuable raw materials of oak ended in exports of 64% of which 13% in the hull and 87% in the plank, and only 36% of the hulls were processed in the final industry i.e. in the higher or highest stage of processing and similar is the case with the beech. These data also speak about the relationship of individual administrations of the Croatian Forests to the final sector followed by the continuing lack of quality raw material, and it is estimated that only on the export of the troops only profits are made annually from the circus of EUR 12 million. The wood processing industry in the county from which I come...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64444	Question, question fellows, time. Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64445	And just to say that the state of the wood industry of the Varazdin County is familiar with the question of which measures and which deadlines the Government of the Republic of Croatia intends to ensure sustainable business for the final wood processing sector, and whether the Government is ready and in which of the proposed measures to support the initiative and demand of the woodworking from the Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64446	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. MP, I thank you for asking. Well, I've already given an answer to this or a very similar question in this House. I'm going to try to compromise him now, first of all, even though our data doesn't match up to the details. I want to make it clear that for us the wood and wood processing industry is one of the strategic sectors in the Republic of Croatia. That is why this government made the first step and formed within the Ministry of Agriculture the Wood Industry Administration. This administration has made a very detailed analysis of the state in the wood-processing industry along with the academic community, the Faculty of Forests. This analysis of the situation was the basis for a developed strategy for the development of wood industry, and here I can finally say these days will be referred to the government's procedure and the operational development programme of the wood and wood-processing industry, which is aimed precisely at the recovery and restructuring of the situation in troubled enterprises, i.e. in the complete wood and wood-processing industry. A whole series of measures in that program exist. I'll only list some of those measures. The measures are aimed primarily at restructuring, financial restructuring of these companies which would be carried out through... The measures are aimed at raising technological levels, raising quality control and banning imports into Croatia products that are not at such a technological level as domestic products to say very simply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The measures aim to include designers' houses and to create a new national, wooden brand. The measures are aimed at plasticisation, etc. etc. As far as Croatian Forests policy is concerned, it is very clear that priority in the acquisition of raw materials is given to wood growers and those targeted at exporting to change the structure of today's exports in favour of products of more added value. The programme is in the government's procedure, and these days the government's procedures are expected. I expect that all wood-processing industries and companies operating in the industry will also be able to run their subsidisation programmes under this programme. I really think there's a much better time coming for the wood industry in Croatia. I'm sure of it, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64448	Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64449	Thank you very much. I remind you that the strategy was adopted in August 2004. I remind you that these days Croatian forests have increased the price of troops 3%. I would like to remind you that the course is 7.29, and I remind you, we have seen from the press that the projection of the value and the rate of the euro is seven by the end of the year. Therefore, it is very clear that the wood industry does not stand a chance without the aid of the exporting country. I'm asking you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64450	Thank you. A written answer. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64451	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, in an hour we'll be here in the Parliament to discuss removing immunity from Agent Glavas. I want to believe that in this case, it is not about the political reckoning and the attempt to bring down authorities in Osijek County and Osijek City, but about the fact-based demand and material evidence. The suspicion in me arises from the fact that similar things are happening in the Virovitica-Podravska County area, because after local elections, and besides the will of the citizens local authorities have collapsed in Nova Bukovica, in Crnac, Slatini City, and that is exactly what the municipality of Pitomanac is trying to do. The model is simple. The HDZ ministers and parliamentary representatives from the area, as well as heads of state administration, institutions and businesses are constantly pressing opposition council members even members of their families to change the political option they belong to and support the establishment of a local government that will be headed by HDZ this time. If they do not agree to this, they are followed by a random fall down the stairs or can lose their job in Croatian forests, schools, and of course they cannot get a contract to rent agricultural land and so on. Dear Prime Minister, do you know of these cases of political terror that has been spent in the Virovitica County for a long time and if you support the policy of pressure on legally elected council members who work prominent HDZ leaders who are generally state officials. During your time here in the Parliament, you made a promise that HDZ would not participate in the destruction of local authorities after the elections and the formation of authorities with refugees from other parties. That's what's happening right now in Pittoman Municipality. Does this mean that you speak in public, and the other you do, or someone is making moves against your politics, your reputation and your knowledge?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64452	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64453	Now, you're the one who took the Pittom case, so you've generalized it. Even the case, you brought the alleged Glavas case to the Croatian Parliament before it came to the agenda which I consider absolutely inappropriate. Because Glavas has nothing to do with politics, with the Croatian Parliament, with the Croatian Government. It is about justice and I will reject the name of the Croatian government any attempt to transfer the ball from the field of justice to the field of politics because it is not simply permissible. And that's about the one that places it in very dubious intent, and even here when it comes to Pitomachi, I don't even know what it's about, and I don't see why something that's not familiar with me or the government is asking a question. The local self-government and central state government, when it comes to my party, my political programme, our political programme, have full autonomy. Therefore, all the organizations of the Croatian Democratic Community, because we have introduced the principle of subsidiarity and we stick to it and respect it unlike you who from the central authorities of the party banned your party branches on the ground from collating with this or that party and with this or that party may. This could have happened in 19 or 20 centuries, but in 21 it is completely contrary to all modern ways of modern democracy. All parties, political parties in Europe accept the principle of subsidiarity and HDZ, the Croatian Democratic Community. I would be glad that the Croatian Peasant Party accepts this, not that from the centre of its orders in the field with whom they will co-ordinate and with whom they will not. That's different. If there are threats like this, as you said, then I ask you to refer them back to the addresses, which is the State's Attorney's Office with specific names, names of who did what, who threatened whom, and let the rule of law deal with them. And certainly not the Parliament and the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64454	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64455	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I have listed four municipalities where the government has been destroyed, past the will of the citizens and where the pressure has been made. I'm sorry you don't know about that. I recommend to you, I recommend that you try to put an end to such a policy, because pressure cannot be put on the legal ban of a councilman to change the political option and to bring down legal and ban power. I ask you to prevent such phenomena by your authority, because otherwise we will be forced to inform the European Commission. Simply such political terror in Croatia should no longer occur. And your comment on how we forbade us to co-operate locally with some other parties... It's just not right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know that very well. I ask you a written answer if you have any knowledge that pressures and threats have been made in the area of Pitomača Municipality, Nova Bukovica, Crnac and Slatina City.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64456	Thank you. It's a written answer. And the esteemed representative, Ivica Pancic. Here you go. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64457	Here's to the end, once again, the question to Mr. Sanader, the Prime Minister. Following last year's brutal triple murder in Petrinja, the government pledged public dissatisfaction to implement new, stricter measures in the control of weapons possession. Of course, the big announcements were nothing. Unfortunately, until a new great tragedy, there was no need to wait for another. Last week, there was a new bloody murder of her mother and her pregnant daughter, and again by a person who, according to existing laws, shouldn't have any weapons. And to remind you, this man, the perpetrator of these murders, was a person of your advisor's special trust, it seems to me to be demining. But it doesn't matter that much. Question. Why have the government and the police failed, and how many innocent murders should happen that the government is finally doing something about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64458	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64459	Well, here's the short answer, Mr. Representative. That particular murder you mentioned last year was also an excuse for the government to start with the Arms Act. The law is made. Why it is not yet in the process, and it will be the next days because we wanted to bring it into line with the European Union, with the practice of the European Union countries, so that we do not have to change it again afterwards. So we had a conversation with the commission. A commission has been contacted about the new Arms Act. The mergers are over. The next day he goes to the government and comes to the Parliament. I hope you support him.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64460	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64461	Of course I'm not happy with this answer because we've been waiting for this new law for over a year. And I also remind you that existing legal enquiries allow the police to take or disable persons prone to incidents or other similar actions to receive or possess weapons. That's what we should ask our Home Secretary. So this dislikation and inaction of the government in these years gives a bad picture to the citizens. Because the government clearly shows you're not doing anything... Leave the government alone, come on. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64462	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the current morning is over. All MPs received answers to their questions. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 3 p.m. with reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Secretary, tell me. The secretary states that it was registered in such a way that it was complex. On behalf of the club of independent MPs, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go. On behalf of the club. On behalf of the club, you can look for a break on behalf of the club. And only after you get your approval then can you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64464	On behalf of the club of independent agents, I'm looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64465	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, proceed with the session! And with reports from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. 1. The Mandate-Immunity Commission's report will be submitted by President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Damir Sesvečan. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64466	Mr. President, before we move to the agenda and before the debate on behalf of the club, I'd like to ask you for an explanation. In fact, the Croatian Party of Retired submitted a proposal on 9 November 2005 for a credible interpretation of Article 14. It's a social security contract. By studying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Article 171, 172, 173, we feel that too much time has passed and that no concrete answer has been received nor has the Legislative Committee given any opinion, nor do we know that this has entered the procedure. Therefore, please inform us at what stage this proposal is in order to give a credible interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64467	This will be discussed thoroughly to see what stage he is in, whether you give an opinion to the previous Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, whether he gave the opinion of the Committee on Legislatives, the procedure is set out in the Rules of Procedure. I'll check it out and let you know. Mr. Sesvetchan, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64468	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! So, first, we have a report on the suspension of MP Ante Bagaric's term of office and the termination of deputy deputy representative Vladimir Štengl's term of office. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 27th session held on 9 May 2006 the written statement by Ante Bagaric of 14 April 2006 in accordance with Article 14(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Assembly on re-behaving as a representative. The commission found that the stay of Mr Anti Bagaric's parliamentary mandate, elected on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in the V. constituency, began on 22 December 2003 and that his deputy, Mr. Vladimir Štengl, acted instead of Mr. Bagaric. The Commission has established that certain conditions have been met by law, in accordance with Article 14(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the election of representatives to the Croatian Parliament rests on MP Ante Bagaric's term of office on the eighth day since his written statement to the President of the Croatian Parliament since 14 April 2006 on the re-behaving of the parliamentary office. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide to suspend the term of office of MPs and to suspend the parliamentary term of deputy MPs. On 22 April 2006, the term of office of MP Ante Bagaric ended. Deputy MP Mr. Vladimir Stengl stopped acting on April 22, 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64469	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no interested and reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll go straight to the vote and swearing. In accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I am voting on the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of Representative Ante Bagaric and the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Deputy Representative Vladimir Stengl according to the proposal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 98 votes to four abstentions, the proposed decision was made. Let's get right to making an oath from the MPs. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure, MP Ante Bagaric, will be sworn in. The oath is made in a way that the president reads the text of the oath and then the representative after being called up and saying, "I swear." I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64470	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64471	Thank you. Congratulations to the representative and I wish him success in the conduct of honorable and responsible representation duties. Here you go, Mr. President! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64472	The next report on the opening of Dr Draga Prgomet's representative's term of office and the start of his deputy, Vladimir Stengl. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 28th session held on 10 May 2006 a written request for the rest of the parliamentary term, in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 1. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament President of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by Dr Drago Prgomet, representative of the Croatian Parliament by act of 10 May 2006. As Mr Prgomet was elected representative as candidate on the Croatian Democratic Community list in the 5th Election Unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12, paragraph 1. The law decreed that Mr. Vladimir Stengl as deputy representative in that election unit would start acting as a representative instead of Dr. Draga Prgomet's representative. The Commission has established that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the standstill of Dr Draga Prgomet's representative mandate and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Vladimir Stengl. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a decision on the standstill of the parliamentary mandate and to initiate the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative. On 10 May 2006, the term of office of Dr. Draga Prgomet's representative shall begin to rest, and the agent's duties shall be in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 10 May 2006 began acting as Deputy Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64473	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 105 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision was taken. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64474	Next report on the termination of the representative's term of office, Vice-Vukov. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament was held at the 27th session of... In May 2006, it was determined that the adoption of the municipal court's decision in Zagreb since 28 March 2006, by which Mr. Vice Vukov is a representative in the Croatian Parliament was completely deprived of his business capacity in accordance with Article 10. [[Because of the presidential bell you don't understand.]] The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has ceased its parliamentary mandate. The commission found that on 22 December 2003, Mr Vice Vukov began acting as a representative and that he was running as a candidate in the first electoral unit as a candidate for the Social Democratic Party of Croatia. According to the Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the debate was held, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the parliamentary mandate. On 10 May 2006, the parliamentary term of office of the representative, Vica Vukova, shall be suspended in accordance with Article 10. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64475	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64476	Thank you very much. I am, Vice Vukov was a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities until today. I thank you for his work and wish him and his family his healing. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64477	Thank you very much. ... That's what I want him to do. [[Applause.]] Mr. Vice-President Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64478	Sir, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Social Democratic Party, I would like first of all to express my great gratitude to my colleague, Vici Vukovo, for making a full contribution to the achievement of the ideas of the Croatian Parliament and of course the interests of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people in many areas in which he discussed during his part of the Croatian Parliament. We must say that by an accident that took place in the staircase of the Croatian Parliament, a colleague of Vice Vukov was injured. He suffered a serious injury that, as you know, brought him into a coma where he is now and he's fighting his own serious battle for a life struggle for life. We from the club, and I believe the entire Croatian Parliament of hearts want to win in this battle, to heal and that if it is possible to get back to being a representative in the Croatian Parliament. We hope that in that battle he will win, and we give his family and all his family from the heart support to support him in efforts and in the battle he leads for his life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64479	Thank you. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64480	So here is the trail of these steps, and I would like to join Mr. Arlovic, Mr. Furi Radin, in front of the IDS Club, probably all parliamentary representatives, and this opportunity I would like to express the admiration of his work and works in the Croatian Parliament. There's nothing left for me but to wish him and his family the best and to win this great disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64481	Thank you very much. Representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64482	In the name of the Regional Party Club, let me also humble myself with a good feeling in my heart and with a lot of conscience say that Vice Vukov was a kind man, a good man He's still alive, he's alive, he's leading, please, he's leading the battle, he's leading the battle and out of this, from this place I want him of course to make him in that battle succeed. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Although I may have been, as it turned out, wrong only because I was full of feelings for my colleagues, dear colleagues, and colleagues. That's probably why my voice's shaking, too. We were literally friends. I'm sorry for this moment of privacy. We've had a lot of coffee and shared a lot of thoughts. And I'm gonna say it one more time. That's why my voice is shaking. And my apologies for making a mistake. Let him follow his good fate and be guarded by the good God.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64483	Thank you. I think I can say that on behalf of all MPs and MPs and the entire Croatian Parliament that we sincerely want Vice Vukov to come out as a winner in that difficult battle. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 114 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. The proposed decision has been made. President of the Mandatory Commission, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64484	We still have a report on the request for authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. At the 27th session held on 9 May 2006, the Commission of the Croatian Parliament addressed the request of the County State Attorney in Zagreb through the State Attorney's Office to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1) of the basic Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia. As Mr Branimir Glavas is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the end of its parliamentary term of office, a decision approving the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs may only be taken by the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, requested approval to initiate criminal proceedings against Parliament's representative Branimir Glavas. Mr Branimir Glavas, who informed the members of the commission about his position on the request for authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings, was also present to the committee. Apart from Mr Glavas, the meetings were attended by representatives Pero Kovacevic, Slaven Letica, Ivan Drmić, Antun Kapraljevic, Nenad Stazić and Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. In an extensive debate which followed, a conflict of views on the decision to abolish parliamentary immunity were raised. The question of the real and local jurisdiction of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb in that case and the existence of illegality in the procedure itself has been repeatedly assessed in question. The debate also highlighted the issue of credibility of the submitted documentation by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. With the same insight that shows that the conduct of the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek is the responsibility of the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has assessed that there are no obstacles to the abolition of immunity to Representative Glavas. The mandate-immunity commission after the debate was held, most of the votes 8 for and 1 against the proposal of the Croatian Parliament to make a decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the application of the Institute of Representative Immunity and within the meaning of Article 75(3). The Constitution shall be approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas on the request of the County State Attorney's Office referred to through the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the reasonable suspicion that the criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120 of the basic Criminal Code of the Republic of Croatia is being committed. Explanation. The Commission has decided to propose granting authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, addressed through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on grounds of reasonable suspicion of the committing of a criminal offence against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1) of the basic Criminal Code of the Republic of Croatia. Since it is a criminal offence for which the commission has taken the view that it will propose the abolition of immunity to representatives. At the proposed decision, a member of the commission, Vlado Jukic, asked for an opinion in accordance with Article 51. To the Rules of Procedure, to issue an opinion on a pardoned opinion pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, holding that the proposal for a decision to grant authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Branimir Glavas does not contain the assumptions necessary for the decision to be taken. The request to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings has not been sent to the competent State Attorney's Office, and this shows that there was no basis for deciding to remove the immunity of the representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64485	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64486	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and that injured article 208. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Paragraph one of the Chairs shall give the representatives a word in order to which they have applied. Namely to give an explanation. I took three of my colleagues' applications from my club around half past ten today. At the same time, I handed them over for discussion, an individual debate on this point. However, after seeing the secretary, I saw that Mr. Glavas was fifth, Mr. Shakespeare in the sixth order. I'm seventh, and my colleague Šišljagic is eighth. I understand that for the sake of strategic questions Mr. Shakespeare is very concerned that in this delicate debate he speaks after Mr. Branimir Glavas. I don't think it's possible for him to regret it, because the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is clear. I'd beg for it to be fixed. So Mr. Shakespeare can speak either in front of Mr. Glavas or behind Mr. Sishljagic. Not between the three of us because the applications were submitted at the same time to the Madam Secretary, with my remark to insist that we speak behind each other because that's exactly how I handed over my applications.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64487	It's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I'm removing it because I didn't lie or edit the applications. As the applications came, the secretary wrote them down. Agent Cain. Here you go. Here's Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64488	Your Honor, Mr. President... But also the opportunities for the sake of collegiacy and seriousness, for the sake of this House's credibility, let's let Mr. Glavas speak first in front of the club so much we can meet him, and then all of us who have submitted the applications appear at the same time as we have submitted them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64489	Applications will be by clubs and debates by clubs and debates by clubs the way clubs have applied and how they are registered and registered. I gave Mr. Drmic an explanation on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, as to when an agent is given an explanation when he asks that the injured Rules of Procedure be given his word. I gave you my word. You've explained the reasons why you're holding that injured Rules of Procedure. I gave an explanation. I don't suppose the Rules of Procedure have been harmed, and that's where the debate is concluded. There's no explanation given. You can only ask that you disagree with the president's explanation. In that case, I will give the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system a warrant to give its opinion within 24 hours on whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Representative Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64490	Article 208 Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is injured by the Rules of Procedure. But in your explanation, you justified yourself if you hadn't done it. Mr. Drmic and his colleague did not mention in one single word who was making the order. He called for an article by the Rules of Procedure and claimed that the article was not respected, that it was not respected in order to report speakers. So you didn't have to personally justify yourself because no one called you that you were putting together order.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64491	I wasn't even making excuses. I just gave an explanation that they were, that the applications were recorded according to the order in which they were. Representative Luka Bebić, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64492	I'd like to contribute to the clarification of this case if I can. Namely, clubs have one list of the order of speeches, and representatives have another. So you might want to submit five applications, one of which is for the club, and the rest is individual, and then I can't even be in line because they're two special lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64493	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64494	Clubs don't have any order lists. The list of orders is with Madam Secretary of Parliament. I have strictly submitted three applications for an individual hearing. This other thing I've been teaching is unrelated to this case. With my oral note that I have surrendered at the same time and that it is impossible and that I want to, I insist that they be in order or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64495	Take it easy. Yeah, but there's a break, that's not what you're looking for from this place. That's what you're looking for from somewhere else. To explain, to give a break, you need to explain the proposal to give a break, so please explain the reason why you are looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64496	For several reasons, Mr. President. One reason is that you deliberately interpret the specifics of the statutes, or Rules of Procedure with one single intention, in order not to swear in an individual discussion between me and my members of the club, Mr Šišljagić and Drmić, in order to abuse the function that you are acting to lead yourself into a situation afraid of what I will say in my debate, you cannot immediately hang up after that. You have abused the position of President of the Parliament. Mr. Drmic has taken three applications for this debate and they must be in order. You can either be in front of these three or behind these three. And the other thing, I'm making up, as Mr. Cain said, I propose to the Parliament and I pray to the Parliament, so all of the representatives' clubs, since it's a serious incrimination for serious criminal acts that are prescribed for 5 to 20 years in prison and the most serious forms of war crimes, I consider it to be a quality debate that follows individuals' clubs that it's very good that all MPs have the possibility of me being a suspect, as a branded, as a media convict, hearing my basic exposure, which will in any case allow them to discuss better the conclusions in making their views, both their clubs and their individual debates. So that's two reasons why I'm looking for a 30-minute break. And I pray that this House is manifested. I do not accept your arbitrary refusal of these proposals, but I ask that this proposal be put to the vote of this House. I don't think I'm asking much. All I ask for is the possibility of a free word from this Croatian Parliament as I will address the Croatian public and representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64497	Thank you very much. Ten minutes. It's been ten minutes since the break. I'd like the president of the Independent Representatives Club, Agent Branimir Glavas, to present himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64499	Thank you very much, Mr. President, you're very kind. Why was I looking for this? I asked for this break because I really believe I have the right to the maximum time in this Croatian Parliament. Not to defend myself but to inform the Croatian public in the first place, through this High House, and secondly, let my colleagues and colleagues not be angry, members of this High Honorary House, because members of this High Honorary House are acting and working on the basis of their programming guidelines and specifics, and it is rare that, regardless of the conviction of the speakers, they would deviate from their basic programming points and vote against each other in certain cases. It is completely and understandable in the democratic world, in democratic societies, and I accept it. However, the public has the right to know what happened during the Homeland War, the public has the right to know the other side in relation to what was being misused by the media, electronically, printed in these past 10 months, and it has been served that after the local elections last year and the election results that were not according to the Assembly's majority today, it has gone into account with an unacceptable option which has won a relative majority and has been the electoral winner of more than a quarter of the electoral body in the area of the city of Osijek and Virovitica-Baranja County. Tried to tear down that power by all means, it failed to bring down that power by those means. A step further took place by a kilometre step, to bring down power in one single possible way at that time when they were assessing, which is to compromise the electoral winner, the winner of the election victory in all possible ways. It was touched by what is very rarely to be touched and very rarely touched by a sovereign state if it protects national interests, and we could see it on television these days, watching videos from the Slovenian Homeland War where the recording speaks more than a thousand words, but the official views of the Slovenian Government are one and the sanctity and protects national interests. I just want to make it possible in this introductory letter that this House allows me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the will of the MPs, to first talk about what is now a topic, in this way I will allow all other clubs and representatives in the individual debate that we have at least equal chances in relation to what was created as perception in the public and what I did not have the opportunity to say through instrumentalised media. So I appeal to you to give me the first word on behalf of the club, and that Mr. Cain is speaking second. And I also pray, I deeply hope that he has won his mind, that he will accept the President of the Parliament's mistake unintendedly, and that he will appreciate that in an individual debate our three MPs, because that is how they reported themselves, in that order and speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64500	First of all, you will have all the full and complete rights in the parliamentary debate as well as any representative, and that time relating to the 15-minute debate and the debate according to the individual debate by the representative and the 5-minute second, to which, the club, as well as those other procedurals, I will be the last person to deny you any procedural rights related to participation in this debate. The fact that there are three different representatives, that there are three MPs, that you hold that there has been a mistake or a slip or something about the order, is that I will make a gesture of goodwill and withdraw my application. I'm withdrawing my application for an individual hearing, and when it's time to start applying for an individual hearing, then I'm going to file that individual debate. So we just take care of the situation. And as for this, our wishes and intentions to speak first on behalf of the clubs, the first registered representative on behalf of the IDS Club, Agent Cain. Damir Cain, right? I can do it to him, I can do it in agreement with you, that you speak first if he agrees, but with Mr. Caine not going to another place but going somewhere else, somewhere else. ... Well, because if you want to give counsel a head of law, then you're not going to put it right behind him, then there's something else. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then there's something else. She's the one who signed up for the name of the club and I'm in second place, so I'll put you in the back, third place. What? ... You didn't hear because you weren't following. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr. Head. ... What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Glavas? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In what? What's the injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64501	Injury of the Rules of Procedure in 208. This session has come to an end on my proposal to replace Mr. Cain and myself, allowing me to be the first. You have re-abused the Rules of Procedure and you who were supposed to be third, now you will be second. Now you want to be second.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64502	So how do you do it? How do you imagine democracy?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64503	But I don't want to change with you. I'm not giving you another place.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64504	And you don't? Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64505	I don't want to change with you, I want to change with Mr. Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64506	Well, that's not up to you, then, and Agent Caine's on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64507	No, I don't agree to go to third place and it would be correct. First Head, Shakes, Cain. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64508	Here's Agent Cain on behalf of the IDS Club to speak. Mr. Cain, this is not how we're gonna trade. This isn't a store, this isn't a circus, this isn't gonna be a fair. Mr. Head, you take your place, and Mr. Cain, you will speak on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64509	Your Honor, it's not, I think we should agree on that. ... Allow me. [[- Intruder, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64510	Come on, Mr. Drmic, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64511	Mr. President, you have violated Rule 211. I'm sorry that I have to make you like a layman right like you as a lawyer constantly correcting you. But the fact is that Mr. Glavas, when seeking a break on behalf of the club, asked that his delicateness and weight of this topic extend his time of speech. Article 211 clearly states that a representative in the debate can normally speak for a maximum of 10 minutes and representatives of clubs up to 15 minutes. Exceptionally because of the importance of the topic, and this topic is very important Parliament can decide that a particular representative of the club or representative can speak longer. So you are obliged to put this proposal to a vote, not to interpret the Rules of Procedure by your own discretion and to reject it because you are not authorized to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64512	Your Honor, no one asked. That's you now. Who asked the Parliament to decide to speak longer? Who suggested it? You asked to speak first and longer. And longer? You want to talk longer? First, Mr. Kajin will speak on behalf of the IDS Club, and then we will discuss this second proposal and put the proposal to the vote for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64513	Can I take a little longer? No, no. This is too serious to joke about. We agree that it is probably this, Mr. President, respected Mr. MPs, one first-rate judicial agreement, probably a constitutional and legal issue in that context in which MPs will decide to remove immunity. But this case is certainly a political issue, first of all because it opens after 15 years because it comes at a moment of separation between HDZ and Mr. Glavas, but this process is in some way under the quotes of our fifteen-year silence because we knew everything or a lot of things we knew, and the prime minister would say for 15 years we've been having tons. I dare say the same way that the Croatian Parliament has never been in a position to remove immunity from a prominent politician on the political scene of Croatia by Mr Glavas and clearly for a more serious qualification. None of us, and I'm gonna say it, it's not nice to say it. We have to, and I'm sorry I didn't hear before, first Mr. Glavas' address and then Mr. Shakespeare's. I'm asking myself all the time on the other hand what's the real difference between Mr. Sanader and Seks on the one hand and Mr. Glavas on the other. That is neither we nor can escape when it comes to this report. And looking on the other side, knowing all of you and Mr. Sanader, Seksas as extremely pragmatic politicians whose political instinct is in the blood I suppose they would never give up Glavas because of some political idea, because I doubt that a year ago Mr. Glavas was doing anything against HDZ and not when he formed his association regional where I, as a sworn regionalist, support him. I think there was a discrepancy, and I talked about it a year ago or almost a year ago at the time of this case, so the Glavas Carla del Ponte case left it to the Croatian judiciary. I don't think anyone was in a position to protect anyone. However, the case becomes or will in some way become a paradigm for Croatia's approximation of the euro to the Atlantic associations. That's what I was talking about about about this surrender by the Hague Court, I don't know the journalists of "Evening", "The Morning List", etc. etc. And knowing all these gentlemen, I really don't see any other motive. True, Mr. Shacks in a way indicated persecution in the Globe to Mr. Glavas. True, I read today in the paper Mr. Macek told someone that there is no reconciliation between HDZ and Mr. Glavas and that Mr. Glavas will get 15 years and finally everything opens after 15 years. The Croatian judiciary, on the other hand, will have to lead this process in the best tradition to say an independent legal standard. Not that they want to, but they'll definitely have to, and I also want to say they won't after this is the last case. The Sisak case is opening. There are new indictments on the "Lore" that are under way. The "Pacrace Field" is reopened, and the Mercep case is now on its way. It's like putting our hand in a hive. On this occasion, I would like to express my unbelief that, let's say recently, if I am wrong, the Government has appointed Mr Mercep to the Supervisory Board or the INA or Croatia Insurance. I once said a year ago that HDZ might fall when it does the most for Croatia. The Croatian economy has not been launched. It's all happening by momentum, but politically they were successful perhaps even more successful than the third January government. Whether it's a case of the Zac family's fee or the movement of the Franciscan monument, the Gotovina case, from solving the Laura case until this process that is now under way. Let me get back to the Glavas case now. Slavonia must have been the victim of a brutal aggression. Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod, etc. Unfortunately, in that war wind, chaos, when it took courage to put on a masked uniform and structure under the supervision of the Croatian authorities, they committed certain crimes, and we all know that. And in that way, under quotes, it had to be kept silent. We all remember that picture when the late President Tudjman lined up the feelers, say, commanders, when he threatened Mr. Glavas with his finger. No one heard the tone, so we can't interpret it, but in a way, that's the way it was intonated. From Feral, etc., we find out about 20 murders. We knew about many things in 91, 92. Not just 2006. Some of us talked about it, some of us, say, didn't vote for the Homeland War Declaration that many of us would have escaped from today. Many of us, in 91, 92, publicly on the steps when the innocent were evicted, say, Serbs and one Pula or the Rivers, were solidized with them, and if a man is not guilty, it is not his fault that he must suffer someone, under quotes, political persecution. However, we must not rehabilitate the Homeland War because this is not clearly necessary, but we must take off from the Homeland War the mortgage of some violent individuals who may be with the knowledge of the highest state summit, and I have spoken something with Mr. Letica in that sense, committed certain misdemeanors which are certainly the cause of individuals today. Because no matter what war was on the other hand, no one could usurp God’s right to decide on someone’s life or death. For the first time, gentlemen, on Saturday, 6.5, I learned that in the year 92, Slavonia was tried by some of the direct courts. In the troikas that were outside the institutions of government, whether judicial, Bolkovic wrote it in "Feral", whether military, etc. If that's the same thing to talk about today as the testimony of a protected witness, Mr. Krunoslav Fehir, where he testifies about beating up baseball bats, then drinking acid, liquidating because there are allegedly three witnesses' statements, etc., that no...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64514	Comrade Cain, stop. Stop. Such a variety of horrible speculations, where you list something that is supposed to be written somewhere, speculated under high speculation about movable direct courts, triplets, liquidations and so forth...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64515	I don't do that to anyone...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64516	Stick to the darkness, I warn you. Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64517	Okay. Let me go back...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64518	And this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djapic. It's okay, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I accept it as a injured Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Cain, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64519	There's something that we're talking about today or these days, I agree, a few illogical things that were discussed on the Committee yesterday. Why, for example, won't the process lead to Osijek? That's the question. How come the government has no confidence in this, say, court and will the state, after the process is opened elsewhere, reopen all these processes? How come Krunoslav, for example, Fehir, who is declared a murderer of two Serbian civilians is still at large? Third, there is certainly a political dimension. Because I said, it's not about anyone on the political stage. I said we didn't all know everything in Croatia, but a lot of what happened in 91s and 92s on the margins, I don't know, the defences of Vukovar, Osijek, etc., and the process opens 15 years later. Three years ago, there were attempts by the Trecesian government but then they were spoken of as visionaries and a coup against the Homeland War. What was the role of some who were superior to Mr. Glavas, who were...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64520	Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64521	... it's very good at it, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64522	Last warning! Last warning! This isn't a courtroom. This is the Parliament of the Croatian Parliament. This isn't the office of investigators...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64523	Mr. Glavas...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64524	... police inspectors. It's not a courtroom, it's not a court.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64525	Okay, I guess I can say...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64526	And hold on to that, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64527	Yeah, that I'd like to remove...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64528	Last time you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64529	... any doubts about any mounted process, I suppose I can say...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64530	I'm warning you the last time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64531	...that politics is being conducted here, somewhere else they will be tried, but I can also say that no one can be sacrificed and that clearly all the facts should be investigated. Responsible, clear, to punish because such mortgages Croatia has no future. Because the crime could not have been committed on behalf of the Croatian people or, I don't know, the Croatian government or someone else. I also said it wouldn't stop here. I mentioned some cases, but today even Croatian citizens are not ready to stand behind some individuals who may have unreservedly supported in the 1990s. I'm not prejudicing anything here, Mr. President, I'm not blaming anyone, although I'm assuming that the State's Attorney's Office is not making a motion without reason and that it has to have every reason not to say the evidence, the witnesses, etc....
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64532	Where did you see the prosecution proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64533	I didn't see the prosecution proposal...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64534	Only in your fantasy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64535	...except what was in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64536	You just saw him in a fantasy, you couldn't see him...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64537	Not in fantasy, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64538	You have to go to the optics because you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64539	Don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64540	I'm not nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64541	Don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64542	...when you see something...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64543	And I want to say the same thing...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64544	Comrade Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64545	...that if it all ends...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64546	Comrade Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64547	... withthefalse...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64548	Comrade Cain! Stop. I warn you now, the first case of such a deviation will be completed that you will go to the bench. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64549	Mr. President, we're not children that we don't know about the other thing, so it's kind of all this and some process of our 15-year silence, but I'm not going to talk about it. This is a first-class political issue, it's a public interest and your nervousness, but it's also a judicial question...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64550	Leave my alleged nervousness alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64551	It's supposed to be read...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64552	I'm not anything nervous...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64553	...and that's what IDS is doing right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64554	...and you hold on, hold on to the line. Don't warn me about nervousness. I'm not nervous at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64555	I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64556	I'm just not even shortsighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64557	That's good to hear. I've got a vision problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64558	You got any problems when you saw some, uh, when you saw in the paper some kind of prosecution proposal, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64559	I saw it, I saw it. Here's the "morning" on page three.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64560	That you could, that you saw something...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64561	To end what do you say? It's all my fault. The victims deserve satisfaction, their families, but also those who will be served the next day deserve to be deprived of any political connotations and that they themselves would not turn into sacrifices, and this, as it went to today's session of the Parliament, does not really lead to good. I don't know if tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or when they're already arguing about detention doesn't matter. No one's happy about this if he has to talk here, I know it's not possible for time to come back, everything could be different today, so Mr. Glava, if I made a joke recently, he put a five-pointer on his hat and said he wanted to bow to Tito on... But what do we do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The past can't change. I don't judge anyone, I want to say it, and I'd rather not talk about it, or vote, but more than anything I've said in the past 15 or 16 years we're going to vote clearly for removing immunity, we've announced it, but we're also going to yell at the sky, so don't pack it, but just judge on facts and evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64562	Okay. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64563	Mr. President, you've injured Article 210. Rules of Procedure. You freely interpreted this article. Mr. Cain was talking about a subject that's on the agenda. And the other thing is, you didn't like it when Mr. Cain touched some of the things where you might have found yourself and you reacted so nervously. I really don't know how to speak under this point if there's no mention of what's been poisoned media space for a year. Another thing, if you'll allow me to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64564	That'll come when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64565	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64566	Yeah. In this case, it is not repeatedly a matter of any injury to the Rules of Procedure because I warned Agent Cain to move away from the subject and he was really moving away from the topic. And now we're going to go to 13 corrections of incorrect allegations, 14 actually. Otherwise, signs, symptoms of nervousness, and other symptoms should be known. Dear representative Drmic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64567	I've reported to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect allegations that Carla del Ponte and the Hague court have left this case to Glavas to call it the Croatian judiciary. That's not true, I don't know where he saw it, where he saw it. The fact is that so far, The Hague has always been a driver for some of these kind of actions, and it was one alibi for the Croatian government when it was working on these issues, so we wouldn't, but we have to because we're being squeezed from The Hague. This is the first time we can yell at the emperor's goal, we see that the state's judicial authorities are packing up a politically mounted process just out of their own geese from low political initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64568	Next correction, MP Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64569	Thank you very much. Mr. Cain, I apologize to the other MPs, but I must repeat this incorrect allegation, and the incorrect allegation and claim by Mr. Cain who suggests not only to the representatives but also to the Croatian public that there is a case of Glavas who left Carla del Ponte to the Croatian judiciary. No, it doesn't exist. I know that at this point, most in this House would certainly be happy to have an excuse because in this particular case we are discussing pure political persecution, not the request of the international community, or Carla del Ponte, but rather the mounted political process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64570	Next correction, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64571	I'm correcting my colleague Cain's incorrect claim that we knew everything in this assembly. You can't generalize Mr. Cain that we knew everything and you can't develop the thesis of collective guilt for silence. If you knew, you should have reacted. In Croatia, foreigners of pensioners have not eaten onion, nor smelled onion, the truth is boundlessly interested in us as we believe all Croatian citizens so that they can decide accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64572	Next correction, honourable representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64573	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Cain literally said that he considered this item of the agenda an end to a 15-year silence on crimes, and he repeated it several times. He insulted not all MPs, not all of the state-level institutions of the current and current authorities, but finally all of Croatia's citizens and I ask you to give him a warning because it is a notorious lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64574	Next correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. It wouldn't have been an educational reminder.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64575	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Cain has brought forth a series of lies, insults, insinuation, and lunches at the Homeland War, I will say only three. About the existence of so-called the famous triplets, the direct courts, that allegedly crimes were committed under the jurisdiction of the state summit and that we should take down the mortgage from the Homeland War. Well, you're just a team of speeches, you're making a mortgage of the Homeland War, and you're embarrassed to be a defense attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64576	Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect quote next.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64577	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Kovacevic has already corrected a part of the allegations that I wanted, and I want to correct the quote of colleagues Cain when he said that no more serious politician has ever been removed, and I don't know that in this House there are more serious and unserious politicians, but after your move, obviously we will have to think about it and such... But isn't Mr. Jarnjak a serious politician? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isn't a fellow Jarnjak a serious politician and others who are being stripped of immunity in this House?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64578	Next correction, Honored Representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64579	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed representative Cain at one point interpreted the alleged picture from television where he saw President Tudjman with his finger up and he put it in the context of his interpretations. All of us who had both the honor and the pleasure to work and to know President Tudjman have seen him thousands of times with our finger raised and would not dare interpret it in any way, and especially should fear the interpretation of those who know what it means, those who know what was being discussed at meetings where no one was and those who know what it says in transcripts that have never been written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64580	Next correction, respected representative Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64581	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct 99% of his speech if I could, but I'm just correcting what he said that we all knew about some kind of threesomes and that the entire Parliament knew about it. So much hypocrisy, so much debauchery I've never heard of anyone so muddy the Homeland War, especially when someone defends NOB with so much passion and has never found them anything. And I hadn't been to Parliament yet when it was also said that the lady in Vukovar recognized the Chetnik who raped her and worked in the post office. I didn't hear from the gentleman that he answered then or anyone else who did something. And the age knows who was the aggressor who wasn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64582	Next correction, respected representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64583	So I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect quote that he said we were making out, we knew a lot, and we kept quiet. That's not true. We kept our mouth shut when it came to other people's crimes. We kept our mouths shut when it came to aggression against Croatia. There's little we dear gentlemen know. We do not know that the aggression against Croatia is a long-planned crime of JNA, Kadjevic, Adjic and many others. We don't know that, it's a fact, and we forget those facts. Unfortunately, we're talking about other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64584	Next correction, Agent Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64585	Thank you, Mr. President. First, the correction that Haag never asked for Glavas. Now that I'm in this situation between this court and The Hague, I'm ready to choose The Hague. So I want to make it right. It just occasionally was pulled out of the drawer when it was meant to try to discipline Glavas, so he says you're looking for The Hague, you're taking The Hague, we're defending you, we're protecting you. So, between The Hague and this, I'm still, since I'm pure in cheeks, I have nothing to fear, I choose The Hague. And here I am using the opportunity to call the Hague investigators. If I need to talk to them, I'm willing to talk to them and if between Zagreb's jurisdiction, Osijek or The Hague would be good if I choose The Hague I choose The Hague. If that's to determine the truth. Furthermore, as regards Tudjman's finger in Zagreb, it was on December 1st 1991 on the occasion of the first 50 acts to Croatian officers. And then, I'm really proud of it today when he's after me for a war criminal, I got the rank of Major. And then Tudjman lifted my finger and over 15 years more people tried to ask me and find out what Tudjman told you. I've always avoided it, but this time I'll say it. Then Tudjman told me, "Are you involved with Seks and Zvon Markovic in trying to tear me down?". Furthermore, it is incorrect that Mr. Cain was tried by direct courts. Even so, Mr. Cain quoted what he read in the text of Mr. Butkovic. No circumstantial courts, no triplets.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64586	Okay, you're gonna do it in the second part, 'cause the time's up for now. Time's up now, so you'll be in the other part.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64587	But I have five credentials. I've raised a chart five times.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64588	That novelty hasn't been introduced to the Parliament yet, has it? And this finger thing we'll discuss later, I mean publicly here. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić, the next correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64589	Mr. President, I'm giving up, since my colleague Hrelja has corrected the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64590	Okay. And the esteemed representative, Pejo Trčević, that would be it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64591	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim when he said that the Croatian leadership knew, at the time, of the crimes that may have been committed in the Homeland War. And that's what it's been for 15 years. Mr. Cain, unfortunately for you, Croatia has so far condemned more of its officers from the Homeland War, some of whom are already in Croatian case files. But she gave the Chetniks generously upgraded.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64592	Okay. We will now return to that procedural proposal, the club's initiative, the club president and the club's club president and the Independent Representatives' Club on Article 211. According to this article, paragraph 1 is extremely important because of the importance of the theme Parliament may decide that a particular representative of the club or representative may speak longer. Well, the club of independent representatives, Mr. Glavas, holds that it's an extremely important topic. Well, I'm sure it's an extremely important topic. So the suggestion is to speak longer. Well, I agree that he's been saying longer, to extend his time for another 15 minutes, that's 30 minutes. Do you agree? [[Good President!]] Okay. Thank you. And then we go to Article 211(1) for a debate on the second club of Independent Representatives. On behalf of the club, club president, representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64593	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for such generosity that I didn't really expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64594	There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64595	And I don't accept talking for 30 minutes. I'm asking the Parliament just to allow me to finish what I planned and predict. I think it'll take five, six minutes more than it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64596	Yeah, it'll take 30 minutes. After that, it won't last any longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64597	If you keep talking, I won't be left with 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64598	Yeah, if you don't keep talking, I'll give you some time. If you continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64599	Dear Croatian public, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm a general of the Croatian army. I'm proud to participate in the Homeland War. I stand behind every procedure and decision of that time today. If I were to relive this most difficult time for Croatia, I would behave the same way. And that is why today I keep crucial for my future political work, but also for the rest of my life. I believe that those among you who keep me the most intolerant, cheekiest or most brutal person on the Croatian political scene will agree. If it hadn't been easy for 15 years to live marked as the greatest, under the supposed signs, "criminal" east of Zagreb. Because the fact is that in a large part of the Croatian public, thanks to the media, such perception ruled. However, I am not happy, because the reason for today's debate is not the desire and the insistence that Croatia clears with the dark sides of its past, but has led exclusively to political interests. I'm not happy, because I, for whom the Homeland War is sacred, am going to have to open up certain painful questions today that no one wanted to ask. I am not happy, because due to petty political interests, in a certain way, the most honorable period of Croatian history is bagatelised. Unfortunately, it is a nakrad mental assembly and a model of the behaviour of some of my former party colleagues who, due to the loss of power in Osijek-Baranja County, will have exhausted all the political methods that would have won the government in this "Catkian" process. I must admit that Mr. Racan's government has treated the problems of the Homeland War far more quantified, soberer and more esteemed, but it is probably part of the price that this country must pay to move on and stop being the hostage of the past's advice that political summits need to be drawn from drawers. In any event, under the circumstances of his parliamentary immunity, he would also give up without the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission or the decision of this House of Highs. In early July of last year, after a confession or false testimony from a certain Krunoslav Fehir was published in the central daily Croatian television that he killed a man and, by my order, after which I recall him walking away quietly and even continued to do his job at the Ministry of the Interior, I addressed the first day after the arrival of the politically-octrosed chief of police of the Osijek-Baranja Police Administration, offering him a conversation, regardless of my immunity to this. I wanted this creepy situation to be resolved as soon as possible, because you'll agree that it's no good to go on living when someone in front of an auditorium of a million people marked you as a murderer. Mr. Faber thanked me very kindly for his offer, but as he said his investigation was only at the beginning, the conversation with me was planned to take place at the end. And it would have been no wonder if he hadn't said to me, with a smile on my part, "I won't pack your head." I was horrified. Then it became perfectly clear to me that I had a major role in a monstrous political setup, because I am asking you nicely which policeman, the chief of police administration, especially the one with the militia experience, I mention this because of the rules of discipline that prevailed in that service, which Faber belonged to during the former Yugoslavia, not with the intention of insulting him, to demean him. So the person who's being processed, he says, "I won't pack you." Is the police packing, I ask this House, I asked myself then, not believing what I heard from the representatives of the Croatian government, but here he won't pack for me. I guess that should please me in July of 2005 at the end of July of the month. But it was only the beginning. The arrests were followed by informing conversations of persons who were children for the war, night examinations by defenders, witness replies, so as not to extort appropriate statements, such as those that would charge me, hearings of 7.5 hours in debt, dispensing defenders with threats, insults, blackmails, empty paper offerings on which I was to place only the signature on which Fabers under the alleged signs of "professionals" will be credited by compromising the content against Glavas. But he would have understood Faber's specific methods of collecting evidence that he had not spoken to me one day, even though he was indirectly Vjekoslav Tapsani, one of Faber's research team's officers who said they were working under huge political pressure. Faber pointed out more than once that their imperative mission was to find evidence against Glavas. I wouldn't be so surprised, either, but it's a monstrous fact that he's banned them from investigating cases of war murders that I can't tie to Glavas at all. You all know when it comes to Osijek as a city case that primarily thinks about the individual liquidations of Serb civilians united by the name that the media has called it under the supposed "Drava case" for years, under the alleged signs "the tape case". They called it that because of the alleged identical way of executing the liquidation would make the victims of small groups, twos, threes, it's now unfortunate to mention threes since Mr. Cain mentioned threes, but that has nothing to do with it or I'm alluding to it. Apparently, they were taken from a family home under the pretext of being arrested for informed conversation, physically harassed in the basement of a street, then allegedly tied their hands with a tape, taped onto their mouths, and under the cover of darkness allegedly killed by a bullet in the back of the head and pushed into the Drava. In any case, the State's Attorney's Office is demanding to initiate a criminal case against me because it is allegedly the members of the First Battle of Ossetian Defence in the secretariat I was working in brought in the beaten Nikola Vasic. I remember Nicole Vasic because he was a terrorist. In this investigative request, the draft investigative request is said to be a civilian. An automatic weapon was found in that gentleman's apartment, which is a photo-laborate. The same day, the weapons of military origin were also found with a certain Mr. Zivkovic Milenko, whom this same terrorist, Mr. Nikola Vasic, had shown. I remember those cases precisely because I personally own these police labs. Well, here's because I think I'll have enough time, so I'll be free to attach to this High House the photo lab of an approved 91-year-old facility that was found in civilians. So I didn't work the lab, it was done by authorized government services, but there's no speech about it, not a word of it. Not a word. Also, when I'm talking about this case, I have a statement from a man who talks about who a certain gentleman is, but I'm not going to bother this House right now, so we're going to report to the competent judicial authorities. Although it is well known that many citizens of Osijek are civilians, Croats and Serbs were killed by sniper shots as they ran the streets to work or to get bread. Still, I don't think there's any excuse for the people with whom these snipers were found and who were killing those fellow citizens being bullied, harassed. If my soldiers have done so conditionally, even though the request from the State's Attorney's Office does not show who did it, I'm willing to bear responsibility. It is interesting, however, that this same gentleman Nikola Vasic from the police in which he was actually detained, went very quickly to exchange with captured Croatian soldiers, worked for years in the post office of the occupied area of Baranja, so until the end of the process of peaceful reintegration, lived and worked in Republika Srpska. This Mr. Nikola Vasic today is a loyal citizen of the Republic of Croatia, one of the chiefs, one of the postmasters in Vukovar who recently received the task of the top-up of Sanader's ministry of mail, to head the post office, etc. An expedition, moved from Osijek to Vukovar, which is an extremely unfavourable decision for Osijek-Baranja County. Because more than 12 people will be out of a job. Is this the beginning of the government's plan to move all major state institutions from Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County where Glavas and the HSP coalition are in power. I'm asking you, and there's no politics here? I was then charged that Smilja and Ratko Beric, who were threatened with death, and then their daughter, Snježana Beric, were also brought into the secretariat, otherwise a journalist of politics, who was reportedly beaten in an investigative request. Snježana Beric wrote busy Hague texts against Croatia when the shelling of Croatian towns and villages began. When the first victims of Chetnic aggression fell. Many did not like such texts, which does not justify. It certainly does not justify it. But all this is no excuse that someone in one district of Osijek beat the lady, Ms. Snježana Beric. It's only interesting that in the presence of a state attorney in the autumn of 2005, it seems to me that he was a Novemberer, and I have a record of that, therefore, of a search of a certain person's apartment and other rooms. A record of a suspect's investigation into the circumstances of a war crime, i.e. the abuse of a certain Snježana Beric, where it is seen exactly which way and how it happened and that neither I nor the soldiers nearby had anything to do with it. But that's not what Mr. Faber was interested in. However, the State's Attorney's Office is seeking, despite my command, what I've told you, informed you of this incident, which I have, too, which I have shown you, that the criminal proceedings are being brought against me for this crime. And I was the one who personally protected her. The fact is that unknown soldiers beat her to the Secretary of Defense, that I kept her for 15 minutes until the police came for her and no one in those premises touched her, but she was beaten up by the time she got to the secretariat and handed her over to the Home Office. Isn't that a politically mounted process, too? Mrs. Snježana Beric lives in Serbia today. She's married to one of their politicians, and for years after the war she's been processing the Anti-Intelligence Agency because she has such information, because of her co-operation with Serbian secret services. She gave a recent big interview in which she herself said she was brought into the secretariat but immediately sent to the police. But I'm willing to answer for it if I've committed a crime. So let me show you a text from Mrs. Snježana Berić of 13 March 1992. It just happened to come into my hands. "In Osijek the murdered protégé of Martin Skegelj and known criminal Glavas ordered the murder of Shaban." Now it says here, I won't bother you with the text, another interesting text that's very short, same as hers. "Ivica Grnja and Ivan Lukačević put on the uniforms of the Croatian Army, replaced the swimsuits with machines," and said INKA Osijek coaches put machine guns on their shoulders and defend their independent Croatian state, etc. I won't bother you, but I'll share it with you. I'm being charged, then, that I witnessed an unconfirmed day of abuse and I've been hitting unidentified victims myself. Imagine, unconfirmed day, unidentified victims, and such things never happened in qualifications with other Stalin, nor in... But okay, I'll deal with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The time that those among you who are not lawyers, forgive me, I believe that those among you who are not lawyers will agree that such a scandalous accusation could be seen only in what I said, in the political courts of the former Yugoslavia, and probably in the dealings with political insinuators, for example, Romanian dictator Ceausescu. Although, as I said, in that accusation, I am quite unknowingly prepared to answer for it. So I'm not saying that to ask for your protection. I'm just asking you, isn't this the only way to tell you that it's a politically-mounted process? About me, at wartime, it was a real myth that the ruthless commander of the defense of Osijek that I, I recall, became only in early December 1991, a few days after that famous finger. So, about me, it's a real myth about a person, a commander who eats Serbian children, spread his face that I'm walking with a bloody knife in my teeth, that I'm a sworn Ustasha who's going to kill all the Serb non-monetary, and the captured soldiers are living to skin. And today I would create such a myth about myself and any soldier and commander in the east of Croatia not because I am a masochist but because if I needed it and was in the interest of possibly attacked the Republic of Croatia again. Well then we've photographed soldiers, my dear gentlemen, in the greenery of the county yard and put those photos in the media with accompanying texts as our well-armed boys hold position with best-sighted cannons and welcome the hateful enemy on the front line of the battlefield. What they used to put bestrzeous cannons in, and from the cypress, they looked at the naked young men with helmets on their heads where the journalists took pictures of them and presented it through the press the next day, through the media. Our soldiers on the front lines of the battlefield. Then we replaced the soldiers with this one cannon we had and put them in the other frame behind the bushes and re-published those images in the paper. We were a handful of misery in a military defense sense. Of the 120,000 people in Osijek, there are about 10,000 civilians left because I estimate for the production and sale of bread, and this can be added to 10 thousand soldiers in late December 1991. I have this exact data because I was in charge of the city's defense back then. We encouraged Jurom and Boban, not because we were Ustasha, not because we were Ustasha ideological orientation, but as a means in terms of psychological action towards the enemy, and on the first line we went with the crown around the neck and the Croats and Serbs who were in the units of the National Guard Assembly in Osijek, we also had a sports company where there were a lot of members of the sports company, athletes of Serbian nationality, because why did we hold the crown? We knew our objective power, we knew that only God and happiness could save us when with a kalashnikov and in the basement crushed with a Molotov cocktail, bombs made of water heaters, we would stand up to tanks. And... about yourself such a myth because it was also an integral part of the propaganda, promotion and defence allowed under such difficult war circumstances, but I did not hope that my Croatian authorities would charge me on the basis of statements by JNA soldiers and Chetnic reservers from Belgrade who had just seen Glavas wearing necklaces to the fingers of Serbian children that this was often the policy of "Evening News" and other Belgrade press was emphasising and writing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that answers Eve Sanader's policy now, and that's why I'm willing to answer the charges of the type "I've been beaten by some soldiers, and I was particularly beaten by the coming Glavas," a quote from this material that was available to Mr. Sesvečana. So, "I got beat up by some soldiers, and they beat me up a lot when Glavas came in." And where Glavas came from, we'll see when the whole file opens. I'm not running away from that either. Finally, I am charged because according to Krunoslav Fehir and another soldier whose name out of respect for his family I will not mention because by defending his homeland he died on September 15, 1991, at only 25 years old and cannot respond to these monstrous accusations, he allegedly ordered a certain Cedomir Vukkovic, imprisoned in the secretaries' garages to drink acid from the battery, and then shot him, and I kept it a secret. I'm not going into the credibility of his testimony. The fact is, a man was killed in the county yard that day. 300-thousand soldiers who came back from the field were stationed in buildings in the same yard and adjacent courtyards, I mean two, three locations and neighboring courtyards, I mean two, three locations heard a shot just like me. I ran into the yard, saw a man lying in his blood, and called the police and an investigative judge to make an insight. Whether I or any of my associates, don't take my word for it now, but very soon time will show who invited me. This is also done, and on which there is relevant documentation, so the insight was made by the competent authorities in that case. He attended the same event in passing, and then my head of regional crisis headquarters for Slavonia and Baranja, who accompanied several people by the body of a dead man at the moment when the investigative authorities were doing their job. I'm being charged that I've been covering up this event, that I've been portraying it as the assassin's murder, that I've ordered... I didn't order anything, the fact is that journalists found themselves there at the moment, but I also stress that such a similar text was published in another newspaper, which... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He hasn't been available yet, but he'll be available in the investigation process because that's one of his basic evidence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A lot of ugly words have been said over the decades and a half about me, but I haven't noticed that my colleagues or the media think and call me a stupid man. If my goal was to cover up torture, then murder would I at that time when people swallowed the dark as they liked to write some journalists called the competent state bodies to make an insight? Would I not have been qualified as an unsuspecting ruler of life and death in eastern Croatia by compromising the post-mortem report from a hospital in which the HDZ director had been in power for 10 years? Do you really think I'm that naive? I first said that Krunoslav Fehir if he did it to sit in prison, and I will defend myself in court even though the military hierarchy which is and then what many today want to challenge existed, although... , and the military and political hierarchy was established and generally known and not as Faber served Mr Mladen Bajic in a politically ordered feminist process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm also prepared to respond to the charges that I ordered the murder of an alleged other civilian allegedly trapped in the garages. I've never seen or heard of that civilian, and no one's looking for anyone today, there's no indication that he existed, especially in the municipal garages. In addition, I am responsible for saying that I have never entered these garages in 15 years, let alone that I have allowed the abuse of civilians in them, and I have participated even less in such shops because I have spent 15 years spinning around the former municipality of Osijek, the county, the city, so these institutions that have remained practically in the unchanged unadapted form as they were 15 or 30 years ago as they are today. I'm curious to know what the witness's credibility is against me when he claims to have witnessed the murder of dr. Kutlic and the attempted murder of Radoslav Ratkkovic, and it is the victims of the case "selotep" that later in the trial against the suspect of the two crimes does not appear as a witness. I'll remind you of what Krunoslav Fehir said last July on television in the press. I quote: "I personally shot Cedomir Vukkovic, and I was in the car when Radoslav Ratkovic and Milutin Kutlic were taken to Drava where they were shot in the head from which Kutlic died and Ratkovic survived. All of this, like other murders, was organized and ordered by Branimir Glavas." Part of the quote, there's more, I have documentation if you give me time, if time lets me, I'll gladly read it all together... 5.7.2005. exactly what Croatian TV broadcasts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, nothing could have happened without knowledge and past Commander Branimir Glavas. One person may be killed out of control, but killing a few dozen civilians in the same way can't be done without an organization, and I didn't hear it from another hand, but I'm a witness to these crimes. I personally participated in this, which is why I am deeply regretting, etc., and he organized everything and ordered Glavas told Fehir a few days ago our new list, etc., but I remind that same witness on the television show claims I was sitting in a car with two other compatriots who killed dr. Kutlic and shot Mr. Ratkovic, who swam out happily, so he survived, and today he's alive. He claims he was involved in it. And what happens next? Now let me tell you what's going on. The public's got it out of their minds what it means to them, they can't remember it. But what's going on? It happens that, at the stage of the criminal trial, Mr. Faber filed criminal charges against a certain Mr. Fred Margus for the murder of Milutin Kutlic and Mr. Ratkovic, the attempted murder of Mr. Ratkovic to the County Court's investigative judge in a request, an investigative request. And that famous affair with the mayor of Osijek where there are no witnesses in the investigation request, he's not even a witness, he's not even a suspect, he's not in any capacity, and the man testified because his conscience burned him in front of a million TV audience. But he ordered the Head. Because it can't be proven he's gone. Faber is going to the amnesia of the Croatian electoral body and Croatian citizens, he will forget what television is, but it just doesn't need to be repeated. But the mayor had guts, took this investigative request because he was delivered by mail and read to him who the witnesses were, but not secretive and unprotected, to prove that there were no witnesses, that the police had denied a man who publicly admitted killing two men in a specific case on my orders. A gentleman has been charged as I told Fred Margus the first criminal charges, the investigation, was filed the other day. I am responsibly telling you, and now that I deeply believe that the perpetrator of this act is not that man charged against. My light's on. Well, it's not possible that it's been leaked for 30 minutes. All right, we'll speed it up. So they will convince me, too, that this process is not mounted, either by you, or by the Croatian public. It is known that Krunoslav Fehir has tried to build his failed career in police relations with HDZ, then HSP, and DC, and again today the HDZ. It is known that he met with local HDZs such as Tomislav Ivic just before he admitted his crime in Valpovo due to "seriousness". His other qualities, taking bribes while working as a traffic policeman, boasting about alleged participation in the mining of weapons warehouses in the yard of the Osijek-Baranja Police Administration, large loans, private debts, kittens with insurance houses in our area are well known and will be witnessed by individual citizens. However, these are all facts that will be dealt with by the court, which I will unfortunately have to prove my innocence in a specific case because despite the law, the assumptions of innocence are not what we all know. But since it was originally allowed by a protected witness to accuse me so hard in the Croatian media space of using this opportunity for the last part of his indictment, which refers to my alleged order to murder an alleged other person imprisoned in the garage to throw away in front of the Croatian public. I'm also using this opportunity to call the police and the State's Attorney's office to finally investigate the murders that led to Osijek's defense being given a thousand 260 citizens calling the city an accident. I don't want to let my role in the Homeland War put too much time on the line for these crimes to be attributed to me. He's got a witness. Some of them gave statements to the police, but as I said earlier, professional Faber banned them from investigating. In front of police officers Josip Pavlic and Blaž Mamuz, a statement was given by a witness to alleged tortures by civilians on one Osijek street ahead of the winding-up in Drava. It's all in detail, but that's not what Faber's professional was interested in. He didn't care just because he was sure he couldn't pin it on Branimir Glavas. And not only that, but 20 other similar cases. To understand what kind of heavy accusations I'm going to quote to you just a few lines of official police document, among other things, the witness says, quote: "I opened the door, they imported into the yard on that street, and they pulled Mamula out of the vehicle. I saw Mamula had a pillowcase on her head that was mostly soaked in blood. His hands were tied to his back. They took him straight to the basement or room of 4,5 times 5 meters, which I had previously cleaned, I was painting. In the right corner there was a wall furnace for the boiler while the window of dimensions 1 times 0.5 meters at the command of the commander walled." And police officer Vjekoslav... From which I found out that the investigation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from Faber the braked handed over the official note. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or, the testimony of a witness to torture on that street that says, I quote, "The commander has ordered me to drive the person xy. I'm deliberately writing xy, in front of the company, I'm not going to name it. She watched the company, that person, and after a while I returned her to the command. While the other team is most likely from, I won't say which streets, picked up that female person and took her in, I won't say which street. I don't know her identity, but I know she was murdered later.", he said in a statement to an authorised police officer, a perfect quote. This is why I stress that for the murders of Vukajlović Svetislav from Garden 12, Vladnjak Petra from Banjalučka 32, Šabanovic Alija from Sinjak 119, Kutlic Milutina from Brežničke 4,... Bogdan from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 130, Stanar Milenka of Neretvanska 2 who were all allegedly taken from the family houses, allegedly bound by a tape duct tape, allegedly led to the Drava River and killed by a 7-65 caliber gun, I am not responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The police document says it's a terrible death crusader, and there's a death crusader. Here's a document from the police department containing forty minutes. I haven't blacked out one because I personally know how this soldier is, it's a Croatian soldier, but he's been misrepresented. However, it does not say that the cause of death is some kind of liquidation, but that it is the fifth column, so it is Croatian... So it's about the Croatian soldier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I didn't blacken it here or on another document. So, from this death cross, everything is visible. It is known who is responsible for the murder of JNA reserver in the police yard as well as the slaughter of seven Serb civilians, as well as two Croatian police officers Po Krajac Zdravka and Djekic Milorad on 1 August 1991 in Sarvas. Why would I bring that up? Because from these materials that I managed to get to during yesterday's session, I conclude that some of them are accusing me of protecting the murders, the liquidations in Sarvas. I assure this House, the Croatian public and the dear God that my conscience is pure. The line of responsibility that these murders lead not to me but to my superior or someone else. That's why the investigation is forbidden then as it is now. And who's going to convince me it's not a politically mounted process? "Fiberova"... If they won't pack me statements from those who are very unhappy about what's happening to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally couldn't, and today I can't give a statement about these war crimes because I wasn't a witness or a "guilty" to those events. But seeing what was happening, witnesses and participants of these events reported to me by offering me help. And it has long become clear to them how this political process only leads in one direction. All unexplained crimes attached to Glavas. Prove to him at least one and the rest by nature will be on his back, not only him but also his 15-year-old son and his family and generations to come. I'm not afraid of the court. I wasn't afraid when times were much harder, but as a general of the Croatian Army and as a father, I don't want to be held accountable or even a public suspicion of something I didn't do. Chief Faber, a professional, has already done his part of the political installation and organised a field for such a scenario by giving statements that he has done an excellent job considering that it has been 15 years since the crime. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] I assure you there is a good political will that many things can be resolved. That is why in this, in all this evil that has been mounted on me by wicked people, I am pleased to see the fact that I will be allowed to make my statement for the first time in all these circumstances that have been polluting media space for 15 years in front of an investigative judge. Because Faber wasn't interested. I'm obliged to tell you that in 8.9 months of investigation, I've never been invited to an informed conversation. I was only invited at one point in December of the month. They didn't know that General Gotovina was going to be arrested the next day, so I got a call, so it was a clumsy coincidence with the day General Gotovina was arrested. So the police chief called me home and said, "You don't have to come. There's no need. Or we'll meet somewhere in the city because it would be too much in one day for two generals, hand one over, interrogate the other." They wanted to extend the conversation. I say, "No. I am a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I got a call and I want to come. Not in the cafes, but in room 235 as you ordered me." I responded. Do you know how long the conversation took? It's supposed to take a while. One minute. The question was, "Do you know Romko Oleana?" I responded, "I beg your pardon?" You would probably react as well now. A man of strange names and last names, a duchess, a duchess, a member of the duchy national minority. So the unusual name and last name here. It's a member of the JNA backup team that went missing out there somewhere on the front line of the Antunovac, I don't know where. I replied, "For the first time I've heard." The conversation was over, I could go. And I didn't want to go out again. I mean, what kind of police conversation is it gonna take a minute? Knowing their work style would not surprise me if they entered the official note: "We asked him, he refused to answer." So I stayed nice, drank two coffees. Bought an hour and ten, an hour and ten minutes, went out. So you can't say I didn't want to talk. And that's all the talk with Chief Faber and the State's Attorney's Office on War Problem. If there'd been any good trouble, I'd have at least given myself a chance to say it even if I was lying. So let them say, "We talked to him, but"... They didn't give me a chance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64600	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64601	Chief Faber, a professional, has already done his part of the political installation... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64602	Okay. Now, it's been a long time. Please conclude this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64603	Here's half a minute. That's why I'm still gonna do this again. I'm on it, I'm on it. In all this evil that has been mounted on me by wicked people, I am pleased by the fact, therefore, I stress and repeat that I will be allowed to make my statement for the first time in all these circumstances that have been polluting media space for 15 years in front of an investigative judge because Fabera did not care. Because since we started clearing up the dark sides of Croatia's past, then let's clear them up to the end. But really to the end. I don't want to believe that the Croatian judiciary won't have enough arguments to gather, that any possible war criminal is not being charged just because he currently enjoys full political protection. As far as I'm concerned, I'm ready tomorrow, tonight to respond to an investigative judge and give a statement and answer to all the questions asked. There's no need for media calculations and media tape extensions to arrest Glavas right after the session, arrest Glavas on Thursday or I don't know what day? I'm ready to answer all my questions. I thank you for this first round. I didn't finish everything. I'll continue in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64604	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64605	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament I will correct Mr. Glavas' incorrect allegations where he claimed that the Government of Ivica Racana acted in her time more moderately and more sensitive to Croatian defenders. That's your first, in the first part you performed. They wanted to touch the left-hand side and the left-hand option with this kind of thesis. It seems to me that you forgot, if you forgot to take your tapes of your discussions. Look what you claimed six months ago in this same House. I therefore reject this allegation as unfounded because the government of Ivica Racan was persecuting really Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64606	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Representative and President of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64607	Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am today in this role for the first time to speak on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club on this subject. The topic is the debate on the immunity of Agent Branimir Glavas, or the granting of approval to a State lawyer for the initiation of a criminal proceedings. In preparation for this debate, I expected something completely different. The debate that was going on in the media, which was going on in the public, concerning the launch, asking for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas, was quite different from what we have today in the exhibitions and representatives of the Club of Independent Representatives of Mr. Glavas, the person whose immunity is being done. We have witnessed that according to the Croatian Democratic Community, according to the Croatian Democratic Community, one scenario was that the initiation of proceedings by a state lawyer by Branimir Glavas was constructed as a mounted political formation, a mounted political process which was under the orders of the Croatian Democratic Community, prepared by the police in the main direction and carried out by a state lawyer, the chief state attorney as an assistant, as a tool in the hands of the Croatian Democratic Community to prepare a mounted political process which would be blamed, put under investigation, possibly under indictment and at the trial of Branimir Glavas. It was the context of a scenario Branimir Glavas has highlighted these previous days. Of which, the scenario of this concept has completely dropped. She's given up for now in this speech. I, speaking on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, and speaking as a directly or indirectly tangled person, had the task of receiving such an object, alleged objects which, for some reason in a part of the political separation and the breakup between HDZ and Branimir Glavas, therefore caused the breakup of such enmity which caused it to move towards, and to use and mount and construct criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas as a tool in this revenge. It was a thesis that was often highlighted. Another thesis that it culminated only in launching a criminal proceedings with results of local elections in the City of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. I was about to answer those two things by not getting into any measure of things. I am not on behalf of the HDZ, nor on behalf of the MPs, nor on behalf of the party, nor on top of it, nor in any way, which I have repeatedly pointed out in any connection and insisted that there is a causal link between the reasons for the political difference between Branimir Glavas and HDZ or HDZ and Branimir Glavas. That the reasons for this breakup and dissipation were something different, that they differ in one concept which he advocated before the local elections Branimir Glavas, then as a member of HDZ, the chairman of the HDZ County Committee, to a co-operative turn in the electoral tactics and strategy of the original goals around a kind of promotion of regionalism, were that political case,... which brought you to break up and break up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, that second, the reason for HDZ's increased intensity was a political attempt to change power in the City of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. Today, I repeat what I have repeated in the past days, there have been no, there have been no, there have been no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Today, from this distance, from this time distance, Branimir Glavas is saying something completely different. He's talking about his defense. He's talking about his reasons, the inconclusiveness of the evidence that was presented in the request for, the sketches of the request for investigation. Me and the HDZ club won't get into that. This isn't a courtroom. This isn't an investigative tribunal. This isn't a police hearing, an evaluation of evidence. I've expressed great regret about it, and I've said repeatedly that I don't believe and I don't have any information or knowledge that Branimir is the Head of '91. in any way, in any way, he has been connected and is responsible on any basis, by command, either by order or by any other criminal law on the grounds of suspicion that he is charged by a state attorney in this request to initiate a criminal proceedings. But I wouldn't let him, and I won't let him use that methodology right now, and with those claims, with those lunches he's been trying to do over the past few days and weeks, constantly sowing one illusion that it's political revenge. About constructing, installing a political process against him, about the reasons among which the HDZ summit makes it. That's not true. What are the reasons and motives? What indications, carried out in the pre-criminal procedure in the police processing in the state's attorney's office, made a conviction and decided to request the initiation of the criminal proceedings, which was not decided by the Croatian Democratic Community, did not judge, did not impose or ask the state's attorney or asked the police to fabricate, construct or install evidence or future process for Branimir Glavas. I appreciated and appreciated his role in the Homeland War and defense of Osijek, Slavonia, Croatia and in the creation of the Croatian state, but it was a worryingly painful fact when, through the past came countless days and nights in these 15, 20 days or more, continuously constructed and insinuated that I am not guilty of anything, I am not responsible, but, behold, my superior was here somewhere today, Mr. Glavas. And today, on two occasions, they sow one seed in which you try to make even though I have not charged you with anything or doubted you because I had no evidence or reason for such claims, for such assessments. It's a matter exclusively of the State's Attorney's Office. You here on two occasions today, bringing out my superior, alluding to me, has passed this one murder, seen a man killed, passed during an eyewitness. You can't sow one doubt on me because...... Because you cannot sow such a suspicion with one emphasis, because the decision to disband the Eastern Croatian regional crisis headquarters to which I was president, by President Tudjman's decision, was that crisis headquarters disbanded on 27 August 91st, and at that moment the crisis headquarters of President Tudjman stopped working and acting, ad personam was all at its disposal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's the same as the illusion of Sarvas. The crisis headquarters had a president who was responsible for all the work and direction, and the military commander commanded the armed forces, and in the words of the crisis headquarters, he said in his decision, were excluded from the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the republican authorities of the administration. Therefore, neither is this illusion of anyone’s possible failure to report anything under command of responsibility very transparent. We in the Croatian Democratic Community Club have not been as a whole as individuals or arrangements, nor editors, nor in any way have we influenced or participated in the initiation of criminal proceedings, whether by law or by law or by law, and therefore this procedure by the State's Attorney's Office is a matter exclusively of justice and not of politics, and at least of the policies of the Croatian Democratic Community and its Club of Representatives or Party. Since you yourself have stressed that you want to clear this up, that it will be an honor for you to present your defense before the investigative judge, we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and, in accordance with our position expressed both in this and in similar cases, we will accept the opinion and position of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64608	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64609	If you hadn't interfered with Mr. President or the representative of the HDZ Club, it's just not true. On 26 June 2005, the president of the Municipality of Baranja met secretly with the so-called A secret witness where he was arranged for his performance. There was August 2005 in Knin, State Secretary Tomislav Ivić, in a witness society, said, referring to me. December, in the beginning of December, you are visited by Vladimir Faber in a private home. I don't know, ever since you became friends, maybe when friendship broke up with me, then you became friends with Chief Faber. Next, Puss, the government spokeswoman after the adoption of the budget on the question of a prominent Zagreb businessman, which is, you've made peace, come on, you've made peace, he says, no matter what reconciliation he will get for 15 years. So these are just some of the details that clearly allude to a justifiable, justified, reasoned that the Croatian Democratic Community and a few people from the Croatian Democratic Community are behind it, and those other things that you referred to me about and speaking for the club, in fact you spoke for yourself, I will answer you in my 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64610	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64611	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, in your debate, you actually concluded prematurely because the debate was already at the beginning, and then stated that it had given up on the concept of a mounted political process. First of all, it is not about the concept, it is about the truth that in the past 10 months the Croatian public has a chance to read, look and see how this thing behaves, see, make sure that it is just a politically initiated and mounted political process. And in the debates that follow, you will see for yourself that it has not given up on the evidence, the truth, and convince you, if that is what it is. Using political positions to haunt individuals or groups of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64612	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64613	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We 152 citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the status of national representatives of the other 4 million and some citizens differ in one important thing. And that's to make laws, to be legislators after which everyone in this country, including us, can be tried under these laws. That's what makes us extraordinary. When we enter this hall and we go public. And no matter what kind of crime you committed, whether you accidentally in a car accident or hot in a guesthouse or in circumstances tragic and dramatic when they're destined to decide on the lives and deaths of other people. We MPs in this House answer by the laws we have passed, us or someone before us. And that's where all our power stops. We are neither outside those laws nor above those laws. And if it could happen that one of us has a bad intention of trying to put out of the law in such a way as to deny what everyone else can have, then our first task is to allow the courts to operate by law. In other words, we differ by one more thing, which is that we must react first when it comes to protecting legality and allowing the courts to operate by law. Secondly, colleagues and colleagues, we have immunity but only to be free to say what we think, that we can freely represent our views and interests of those who chose us. And in everything else, as we know, the first thing we need to do when there's doubt is to offer ourselves immunity to be removed. And that's the first step in which we protect our role as a MP, that's the first step in which we allow ourselves and the judiciary to do the job that has to do the best they can, and that's actually what we can talk about. I can't talk about anything else as a representative of this House right now. This House, as someone has already said, is not a courtroom and must not be. No one. Not to us who are here, not to anyone outside. What we can be, we can only be assured that the court will do its job properly, and we really need to do much more about it. The SDSS Club, out of respect for the institution of MPs, including the institution of representatives of Mr Branimir Glavas, will vote in favour of removing immunity without any prior presummation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64614	Thank you. In 16 and 51 timed out for an individual debate of 10 minutes per item of the agenda. On behalf of the HSLS Club, a respected representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So removing the immunity of MPs at the request of a state attorney should actually be in a normal parliament and under normal political circumstances technical decision. That is, in healthier political relations, because before the law they should all be equal and the law should be equal for everyone and should not be equal in society. HSLS will also raise the hand of removing immunity to MP Glavas, but not to prejudge his guilt. Unfortunately, the case has been politicised, debated even if it would have been a removal of immunity, if it had been in the first place had been represented by the ruling party. There were questions that were difficult, and that's what happened so far while Branimir Glavas was in that party? Such questions, if they remain without an answer to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, destroy the credibility of our judiciary and maintain that the Government must manifest itself on these issues. So, what was done in this process while Glavas was a member of the ruling party? Because the case that the shush was definitely supposed to have been completed earlier. For the truth, for Osijek and for Branimir Glavas himself. HSLS calls on the State's Attorney's Office and competent institutions to professionally do their job without politicising, but also without political pressure. The State Attorney's Office as an independent body shall not be a racket in the hands of any government. And this is certainly a difficult job for the state lawyer Bajic who received the full support of the Croatian Parliament and it is not good that he already had his first procedural error yesterday because we know that the procedure is actually the heart of democracy. This is indeed an opportunity to find out the truth of what happened in Osijek, that the city of Osijek, where it is certainly not easy to live or lead now to stop being a city case and that in the fast and politically unburdened process we find out whether Glavas is a victim or guilty. I think it's the general interests and the right to have this case over once. So, we'll vote to remove immunity from the MP, but without prejudicing guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64616	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64617	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course, it should be mentioned immediately in the introduction that the Parliament is not a court and that we cannot discuss facts or evidence, but we must nevertheless assess that it is a request by a state lawyer to withdraw immunity from one of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament in order to initiate criminal proceedings for the sake of war crimes, and this circumstance is an important fact of political and legal nature, especially if this request has occurred autonomously from the competent independent authorities of the rule of law. Given the previous experience in the Croatian Assembly on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to stress that this SDP club has had a principled political stance since the time when the initiative for the establishment of the Hague Court was launched. This means that it is necessary to investigate, determine, process and individualize all war crimes. This should be done for us now, for future citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for the preservation of the value of the Homeland War. The request of all speakers before me was that the process, procedure and all others be guided by the rules of the profession and within the framework of independent, or autonomous bodies of the rule of law in a democratic order. However, it should not be possible to close the eyes and to provide valid answers to the chronology of events related to the request for the opening of an investigation and the removal of immunity for one representative. Whether it is a coincidence, whether it is a coincidence or not, it is not a coincidence that citizens should be answered, not us in the Croatian Parliament. Is political obedience or the rule of law more important to the legal certainty of citizens? Why am I saying that? It has already been mentioned several times that it was a coincidence that there was a conflict in HDZ, that this conflict had developed, baffled until the exclusion of representatives of Glavas from HDZ, that HDZ had lost power in the county, that he had lost power in the City of Zagreb, and that when we add that there was no political will to investigate, they claim, the crimes that allegedly took place for 15 years cannot remain just in the lapidal coincidence, coincidence. We have to tell the citizens that it is a constant, that it will continue to investigate crime in other places, and that is already being said here, it is again the interest of all of us and all of the institutions of the democratic state. At the same time, it should be said that this process has been unqualified by the other media problems in the Republic of Croatia, so that there have been neglected and development and employment and corruption and bribery and training of Croatia to join the European Union in order to decide on one of the technical issues for the Parliament whether it has submitted a request for the initiation of the state lawyer procedure. And why do I repeat that? Since 2003, a democratic standard related to immunity has been built in the Croatian Parliament. It is for all requests of a state lawyer relating to criminal offences or to the suspicion that the representative has committed crimes that are prosecuted under official duty and are not related to the exercise of the mandate, so it is not about spoken word or opinion or attitude in the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament has removed immunity. It's more than the Constitution predicts immunity in a material sense. The constitution only says that an immunity procedure cannot be initiated, and it does not say that he was released from responsibility after immunity, after his term of office. It is in the interest of all actors, especially the Croatian public, that such events do not run out of response, but that response must indeed be obtained from independent bodies who are in charge of this without subflation, without subfling any political option, and now it refers here given that it is the HDZ, of course to the current HDZ authority. Maybe just another sentence. I can understand that a parliamentary speaker is used as a political party, but it is not acceptable to use a parliamentary speaker for arguments related to the launch of proceedings that parliamentary deputies have no idea about. It doesn't apply to the Glavas who, in this case, has been tangled but there have been other MPs who have used such a thing. Of course, for principle reasons in the interest of the Croatian public and in the interest of representatives of Glavas SDP will vote in favour of removing the immunity of counterpart Branimir Glavas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64618	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64619	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Lek who said that the motion to remove Mr. Glavas' parliamentary immunity has been filed by a state attorney. That's incorrect. The request was submitted by the Deputy of the Zagreb County State Attorney's Office and the state's attorney had only passed it on and there were many procedural deficiencies because we were unable to determine first because he had no authority because we know that it was a real and local competent County State Attorney's Office in Osijek and not Zagreb. After that, we found that on the same day as the deputy county attorney in Zagreb submitted that request the same day, the chief state attorney gave him the authority to exempt the case from the County Attorney's Office in Osijek and to Zagreb. And that's all there's to talk about, and we need to talk about it from the point of view of Article 75(3). The constitution because the process is full of mistakes that point to a lot of things in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64620	The second amendment to Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64621	I'll correct Mr. Lek's doubt, who said if this request had been made autonomously. There's no doubt, Mr. Leco. It wasn't an autonomous request, it was a political directive, and you know it, and we all know that in this country, the state's attorney decides only on the persecution of the only one who stole the chicken. A state attorney can't make a decision if he's chasing a tycoon without the blessing of politics. Also, a state lawyer cannot make an independent decision unfortunately and does not make it because it is such a practice in this country if it is a Homeland War, if it is a "general national interest" or some other strategic area.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64622	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64623	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! This one slightly unusual but very responsible debate in front of all clubs puts a challenge in some way, a challenge that the public will participate in one way or another. But first of all, I have to tell the HSS Club to ask one principle question. What is the level of political responsibility and political credibility of a society? Whether this level of political responsibility can be measured by assessing whether a topic is discussed or whether it is discussed in some way, or whether it has been discussed. We at the HSS Club hold that it is very important to take care of the way something is discussed and what can leave such or such consequences for society. Because an irresponsible debate or an irresponsible approach to creating a context of a perfectly normal debate can create inconspicuous consequences in a society, can almost traumatize society, can divide it, can seriously threaten to create inexplicable consequences. And that is why it is very difficult for viewers or listeners or those who will come to this debate to understand what we are discussing here today in nature. Especially those who like to read sometimes the Declaration of Homeland War, those who like to remember and remember because it is difficult in the context of this political debate and it is political because it is happening in the Croatian Parliament to separate these important things. This is why the context created in this perfectly normal debate is primarily negative. Who created such a context? Is it just the public, is it just the ruling political party, whether the general public, whether the way and the level of our political expression at all? It is a question but the fact is that a negative context is created that simply cannot pass the responsibility of the ruling HDZ political party, it is simply impossible to avoid the context of responsibility that extends and threatens dangerously not to take sides with political reasons for formal, legal, procedural reasons. And that political party, which based on the fact that exactly the whole thing was launched at the moment when Glavas left the Croatian Democratic Community, speaks in the context of what I was talking about, creating unacceptable circumstances for which absolutely the greatest burden must be borne by the ruling Croatian Democratic Community precisely from that political responsibility that always carries the one in power. And that's a political fact. We would, of course, like this politically unfavourable fact not to create even worse political circumstances that can be followed because the HSS Club has always highlighted, supported and advocated that everything written in the Homeland War Declaration absolutely needs to be respected, that it should be revived, that there should be a stronger framework than creating negative contexts when it comes to possible irregularities arising from the context of the Homeland War. But unfortunately, we don't do it, we do it the other way around. We created such a negative context so that even those in The Hague might be right when they say so you see that there are criminal organizations, so you see what they're doing and what they're saying. This is this negative context in a context that is not to be spoken or not to be expressed in a way that creates this vision of this unpleasant political context. And that's why we simply have some things and, as a society, we have to prevail within ourselves and we have to create a framework that shares our country, our history, our Homeland War from any case that we're going to discuss, whatever it is about Anti, Yuri, Shimi, anyone. Those things have to be separate. We can't mix that context. Because that's what we're making a bad foundation for this country's future. That's what we're questioning. And those wicked will know how they will deal easily with those who think differently from them. We're giving them an ideal alibi so we don't have any more arguments. And not having arguments is the worst thing that can happen in a political context to a parliament that, by the nature of things, represents citizens. He's their representative. Therefore, at the HSS Club, we believe that political responsibility must be above each of us, any individual but must be above any political party at this time. There is no valid reason to give the right to any political party from HDZ to anyone to do things that are not in the country's interest. Indirect or direct. It doesn't matter. So another principled question arises. Would this Parliament agree and decide not to remove the immunity of Mr. Glavas to help Mr. Glavas, would it help to create legal and credible authorities in Croatia? Would you help Croatia at all? I'm not sure it would help. I don't think so. The defense of anyone can't be based on immunity. He's already recognized in the people in one negative and bad way. That's why I'm safe, and everyone's innocent as long as they don't, otherwise don't prove that Mr. Head is innocent. And those who think otherwise will have to prove or suffer the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64624	Thank you. HNS club. Dear Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64625	Thank you, Mr. President. I personally found it interesting to present a representative of Glavas but for the measure of things, for the decision we make today in the Croatian Parliament it is quite irrelevant and completely irrelevant. Is he disqualifying individual witnesses or not? Yes, what it says about certain events that are mentioned for the decision we make in the Croatian Parliament is completely irrelevant. This decision is not based on it, therefore not on our court whether or not the representative Glavas is guilty or not of what he is charged with but is based on the request of the State Attorney's Office or any part of it. The decision is whether the Croatian Parliament has confidence in the procedure and the institutions of the state or not? So does the Croatian Parliament consider that the State's Attorney's Office should be left with the job for which it is in charge? Should the courts be left with that job they're in charge of? And the Croatian Parliament to do the job for which he is in charge, or for which we are in charge here. If the lawyer's request was unfounded or a procedural error was made, the court will dismiss the whole case. So it's not up to the Parliament to judge. It is up to the Parliament to enable the authorities in Croatia to do their job by the formal institution of government, a branch of government in the Republic of Croatia. So he doesn't ask us what we think is his or his fault? Is it legally justified to request the State's Attorney's Office or not? We are asked to allow the judicial authorities to determine all these facts and it is up to us to enable them to do so. As far as immunity is concerned, I think we've repeated it on behalf of the club, and I think it's a common known fact, but I'll just repeat it for a second. Immunity is not an irrelevant institution. Immunity is an extremely important institution that is much older than both us and our Parliament and all the parliaments in the world. And it means that it allows elected MPs and other officials to speak as they please. Not to do what they want. It's that they say what they want. So, freely in Parliament, they say what they think in accordance with their courts. That's why this Parliament has introduced a practice that I think is good, and that's that the defamation suit is not being lifted. For all other immunity, it's coming down. And that's our job here in the Parliament. Allow me since practically all my predecessors have gone away from some of this topic or what I just said, which I think is the subject of our debate that only a few brief remarks that may not be very directly about the measure of things, which is whether or not to remove the immunity of counsel to Glavas. I don't think Agent Glavas did a good job of using long 40 minutes for his speech here in Parliament because I have to say that the only thing I can say is that he was in too many places to kill and he knows too many details about too many murders. Disqualification of individual witnesses in the Assembly is not appropriate. That can be done in court. There are other places that are invited but the Parliament is not. With all due respect neither to us in this House, and I think nor to anyone else is interested in the relationship between the representatives of Glavas and his former HDZ party. The arguments why this procedure has not been launched before say nothing about the fact that this procedure does not need to be initiated now. I agree that it would have been better if that procedure had been initiated earlier. It has long been said and written in different ways, as Agent Glavas himself said in Croatian media. It could have been launched during the coalition government in which the HNS participated. But it's not. The fact that it didn't start earlier doesn't mean it shouldn't be run today. It is my opinion that Agent Glavas, given the gravity of the charges, should fight for his chance before the court. It is clear that hiding a crime is not a Croatian national interest. Not today, not five years ago, not before 10, not before 15. Crimes have never defended Croatia's national interest, and crimes do not defend Croatian national interest. So, in the situation, then. Just one more remark, I also find it inadmissible that individuals and their actions are hidden and their personal responsibility can be hidden from the Homeland War. Responsibility is always personal. Therefore, I believe that in the case of such charges on anyone's account the one presented, and that put forward in official form, the minimum is to fight for your chance before the court. The HNS will certainly vote for the chance of representative Glavas in front of the court and will vote to remove his immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64626	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64627	A colleague in her debate says it is up to the Parliament to allow authorities in the Republic of Croatia to do their job. No, it is up to the Parliament to determine, on any request from the State Attorney's Office, whether he is, therefore, to initiate a criminal proceedings, whether he is based on the law or not. Otherwise, Article 75. The Constitution, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, loses its meaning. Then immunity should actually be removed from the Constitution and from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. But you also suggest that Glavas was in too many places to kill himself. And I'm telling you that I've been and many others throughout our homeland in '91, '92. years in places where unfortunately it was killed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64628	And representative Ivan Drmić, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64629	I would correct the incorrect allegation and the false interpretation of Mrs. Pusic where Mr. Glavas called that he was not involved in the metrics of things, that he was hiding behind immunity and hiding behind the Homeland War. I think it's a guilty and incorrect allegation, because Mr. Glavas never once called for immunity, he never once called on representatives to vote against removing his immunity, not one word behind the Homeland War. He simply wanted to show the course of things that led to this politically mounted process in his presentation. I think it was both his right and his duty here to meet all the representatives and the Croatian public as the ruling party, abused the State's Attorney's Office, led to today's meeting on the agenda and debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64630	HSP club, respected representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64631	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk in a different way about this agenda point, so I'm going to take down parliamentary immunity to Agent Branimir Glavas. I'm going to speak really in principle the way that I'm experiencing the whole situation and the thing, because I'm saying that this is not just a legal question how some of my speakers or speakers have asked it. Because if it were just a technical question, then we wouldn't have reported all the practical club representatives here in the Croatian Parliament. It is a great interest, a huge interest of the Croatian public, and certainly much wider. Not to mention how much interest the citizens of Osijek and Slavonia and Baranja have in this agenda. I have to point out. Why would I say that in principle? Because I and Mr. Glavas have had the most intense political conflicts in our relationship over 17 years and years of unspeakable knowledge. I remember the situation was also with the president of the Croatian Parliament. But I always thought that something that was done for Croatia, quality and good and that for Croatia of general national interest, cannot and must not be the subject of the most brutal political accounts. When it comes to the Homeland War, then I must say that we have really come to a situation one in Croatia where this is possible, and this is likely to be removed from the immunity of fellow Glavas, that there will be investigative procedures, who knows how long this will end, while at the same time in the City of Osijek for the death of more than a thousand civilians in our city, no one has been prosecuted by the other side who committed these crimes. Of course, it can and must be pointed out that their crimes must not justify anyone's crime if it has been committed on our part. But I'm talking about one practice. I'm talking about one fact. We're talking about something that we really shouldn't be silent about just hanging out and hanging out with any interest, any, I don't know, desire, the tendency to act like there are no elements of exceptional political elements around this case. Namely, nine last months, here are ten since the establishment of the city and county government in Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County coincided with an unprecedented first press campaign against counterpart Glavas. It is not but indeed not a single human rights organisation, for any of those who have countless in Croatia, who are very concerned about any bad moves by the Croatian authorities of any local, national, any poorer work of the Croatian judiciary, whether the position and position of any member of the specifically Serb national minority, especially those who have escaped for any reason, none of these numerous associations have found it appropriate that in nine months, ten unprecedented media campaigns against Branimir Glavas stand in defense that a man is truly innocent until proven guilty to him. But my colleague, Glavas, he's actually a convicted media officer. He is also to blame for what Sarvas mentioned, he is also guilty of Drava, he is guilty of everything in the media and in this campaign that was conducted without the protection of the state's attorney, without the protection of the Croatian police, without protecting anyone because it has also violated the course of the investigation, or prepared an atmosphere according to which the culprit must surely be found. That's what we have to warn you about. I, as mayor of the city of Osijek and as president of the Croatian party of rights, must say that I am deeply saddened by the way the whole situation has taken place. It was said here just before that some witnesses who had the status of protected witnesses were even trying to compromise some witnesses, but I also recall that we witnessed that some witnesses who had the status of protected witnesses on the same day that they were given the same status as the great media stars of the Croatian radio and television, which practically opened a public lynch and public persecution of the generals of the Croatian Army, a five-time parliamentary representative, a multi-annual mayor, and that I am not listing all the merits of Branimir Glavas who agreed with him and disagreed with him, must be recognised. I have said and I repeat again that our years have exactly been in different relationships than the most severe conflicts and somewhat pragmatic agreements and coalitions as we have now. And this is not what I'm saying absolutely as mayor of the city of Osijek in terms of the preservation of the coalition government, we are in Osijek mayors and we are not afraid of new choices that we would get... It's what we got last time. [[You don't understand.]] I am only saying in principle that there has been so much incorrect, not fair, dirty and insidious that we cannot be impressed in Croatia by the right to have a very strong and political dimension here. If we consider it, I will repeat once again that for the sacrifices suffered by the citizens of Osijek, for so many children who have remained disabled in the city of Osijek by grenades. Dr. Šušljagic operated on a little girl who lost both legs, and from the commanders of the artillery who ordered it, who handed four or five thousand grenades to the city of Osijek, he not only was he not responsible for it but he is today acting in certain responsibilities in Croatian judicial authorities. We also need to stress that we should not be surprised after these situations and the increasing number and suicides of Croatian defenders, that we should not be surprised by the growing depression in Croatian society because it was precisely the Homeland War that was one of the last headquarters, the pillars on which we relied, which we said was okay we had a war, we had problems, we had everything but at least we did something we could be proud of, if we had never done so as a politician or as a believer, never a crime can be justified by any other crime, but in Croatia so much has been done wrong. On the trail of this policy, criminal policy, or determining the clear positions that have been happening with us, we often declareably know how to speak Homeland War is fine, etc. but in practice what we have, and in the media announced new cases, new disputes or what my colleague Markov said, so what are we to be surprised about in The Hague when it comes to criminal organisation if I am the top of HDZ then practically, so Glavas was the very top of HDZ and then until recently, etc., that he is believed to be responsible for war crimes. And I'll tell you one more time that everything that's been going on in Osijek has been loaded on his back for the past 7-8 months. There's talk I don't know about numbers, that I wouldn't... in numbers because every man has a personality, so now I say 30, to be 40 people, so you don't mind me. If 30 Serbian civilians are missing, killed or... With them there was, indeed, someone has to answer for it, but all these months in the media campaign, it was subtle, sometimes very rigid and radically loaded on the back so that the whole story would eventually come down to one incident if it was, which will show whether or not the judiciary was, I hope the independent Croatian judiciary, hopefully, whether it was and eventually all came down to one story and what was with all the other situations. [[You don't understand.]] But it remains a shadow that he was the master of life and death in Osijek in eastern Slavonia and had such an image and then he corresponds practically to all of it, even if even for this investigative request of what he is, he does not burden him. I spoke as a representative at this assembly speaker 14 years ago, removing immunity for a very serious crime, it was the destruction of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It was then, under that incrimination, that immunity was lifted, the sentence of 5-15, 20 years in prison was prevented. Is after the process of a year and a half all rejected,... and released, but this process and I and my family and my party finally paid an extremely high price, and we even pay it today because it took years and years to convince that we didn't know any rigid ultras, murderers, black shirts, I don't know what they didn't, which was going through the whole process that was constantly being kept media storage just... [[You don't understand.]] You would then say, "Is it possible that this is how the campaign was conducted, so that at the end of the court council, the council of the military, the verdict for those of us who were charged at the time, would be carried out? [[You don't understand.]] But the scars were left, no one was responsible for it, no then state attorney or the policy that led to it. So it was a classic political process that was being conducted at the time. Elements of this we also recognize today in what is happening with my colleague Glavas, and it is very important that I, as president of the Croatian Party of Rights, stressing that I am very sorry that it happened 15 years after it took place in the City of Osijek, forget the situations as they were then in our city. It was practically impossible... The situation in the city and load it all up by commanding responsibility on one man's back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Against this command responsibility I stood up and related to the co-operation with The Hague Court because it is the most flexible and broad form that anyone who really bothers you to determine it as, I don't know, Cash related to The Hague, Glavas eventually for here and then we'll see how and in what way. This command responsibility is actually a huge problem and it will also appear through this process that is clearly standing before us. And we can't just keep it quiet. So that story would be better for him if he showed in court that he wasn't responsible. You know, that sounds nice to all of us on the side that we're not in the same skin. But you know, he also has a 15-year-old boy who goes to school every day, who has to live with it, has problems at school, kid shit. All that is, but what will happen if Glavas is eventually, in what I am convinced, also in this system of Croatian justice and political relations is released. Who will restore that time and balance and that stability and that peace? I think there is a great one, those who did not participate in the whole story in the defense of Croatia, around the Homeland War, they are very, very different from one position. Those who were on the other side were, they're even now... You know? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many are opponents of the Croatian state and of the Homeland War now can sow pleasure and happiness. We in Croatia right parties certainly do not and we are giving this opportunity and support with the belief that Glavas will prove his innocence and we will not vote to remove immunity because we do not consider it just a legal issue but a political issue. So in this way we will present our political will to both this Parliament and the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64632	Thank you. Now we're going to individual debates. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64633	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. And I think that we can talk about the historical and legal circumstances of the creation of the Croatian state, the defence of the Croatian state in this Croatian Parliament, about the most measured few of us who have had a more complete review of the game and we have participated in the creation, i.e. the formation and legal regulations and everything else. There's Mr. Letica, who was at that time an advisor to the president of the state. There you are, Mr. Seks, Luka Bebić, who was the defence minister, Andrija Hebrang and I, and these others all can, didn't have that whole part. I was at the Ministry of Defense, and Kreso Cosic, that's right, yes. But first, before I go into that part, I have to say that I'm going to split my debate into two parts. The first part will be the remarks of a protesting nature, and the second part will be on this part and the scale of what fellow Glavas was talking about. Namely, you can't, I got the impression, I had the opportunity to see the whole material, and it's already visible that there's a lot of clumps and a lot of mistakes made, which even gives me the foundation of this suspicion of a politically mounted process. It is inadmissible that the State Attorney's Office, which means the Attorney General is sending a request for the removal of immunity with an accompanying letter and within, sends a request from the Deputy State's Attorney in Zagreb, which according to the Law on State's Attorney's Office, means the Law on Courts is really and locally unauthorized. And then we asked to determine whether the State's Attorney-General was in accordance with Article 26(2). The Law on State Attorney's Office exempt the case from the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek and gave it to the jurisdiction of the Zagreb State's Attorney's Office. And interestingly, that's what we get here at the Parliament, yesterday at 4:00 and 18 minutes by fax from the State's Attorney's Office. And now, an interesting situation. So on April 25th, when that solution is said, and the truth is not signed by Bajic himself, although the law says Bajic must sign it. She signed off on a replacement. So according to the law, he had to give him authority so he could and what he could sign in exchange for a state attorney. But on that same day, on the 25th day, the Zagreb County Attorney's office in April is writing a proposal for the indictment and asking to be forwarded to you, President Shakespeare, to confiscate immunity. So what do you say now? How can this be legally explained now? It's not legally possible to explain it. It's that something stinks. We know for a fact that criminal charges were filed by the Police Administration of Osijek-Baranja. So who did she take? I guess she submitted it to the county attorney's office in Osijek, not Zagreb. And now all on the same day, all on the same day and everything comes here, and the president of the Committee pretends he has nothing to discuss here. Since there's nothing to argue about because you need to see how in other cases when a lawyer submits, he says you're not competent to ask for a removal of immunity. Downloading immunity can only be authorized, so the state's attorney, or local law is really competent to the County State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, for me there are many of these shortcomings of law that should have been removed before this session is discussed. Now let's get into this very part of the creation of defence in Croatia and everything else. You were talking about crisis headquarters, Mr. President. I'm just gonna do some things over and over again. The first decision of the President of the State on the crisis staff was made on 17 July 1991 and was published in the "National Journal" of the year 37, and according to that decision were said by the Republic headquarters, the crisis headquarters of the Republic and were envisaged municipally and were foreseen for several municipalities and so on. Regional headquarters. It is true that the decision was put out of effect on August 27th, but a new decision was made on crisis headquarters. And it is true that crisis headquarters had a role and a military part during that period. Why did they play the part of the military? Because the Defence Act came into force only on September 20th and thanks to Luka Bebić, who was the defence minister at the time. We passed the Defence Act on 26 June 91st and then it was because of that part of the search for an international from Europe and said that it would be later and... The main headquarters only started working about October 2nd, 91st, and crisis headquarters had that part of military jurisdiction in those parts specifically related to the conquest of the military, as planned by the preparedness measures and all documents from the defence plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Glavas, I don't know how it is or how the police department came about this command responsibility, but Mr. Glavas was the secretary of defense. Secretary of Defense. The defence secretariats at the time were municipal authorities, and they had nothing to do with the military. But they had nothing to do with the military but had to do with the request at that time of the National Guard's assembly, there was no command of the National Guard's assembly where at that time Commander Martin Štegelj and there were troops of the National Guard's choirs of the reserve, there was no meaning of yet the Croatian Army because the Croatian Army came only when the Defence Act came into force when the troops of the National Guard Assembly were translated into troops of the Croatian Army. So I don't know how Faber came to be in the chain of command. The Secretary of Defence had no command, municipal crisis headquarters existed, but the Secretary of Defence was only a member of that crisis staff, the president was president of the executive council and was at that time in Osijek and Mr Kramarić the chairman of the National Defence Council and was a member of the crisis staff, because it was according to all regulations, we know how it was done. So this is a bit of a weird situation, took that variant from the command responsibility that Carla del Ponte uses, but it's all on... legs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is true that Mr. Glavas becomes the commander of the defense of the city of Osijek only on 2 December of '91. year and it is true that on 2 December we introduced a labour obligation and introduced those precautionary measures because the situation took place that only 10 thousand inhabitants remained in Osijek, and other military-qualified bonds went to various sides, they went to Istria, they went around Rijeka and then in Zagreb at that time there was something about Zagreb and this part, i.e. in all of Croatia over a million exiles there were and then the president of the state made a decision on the introduction of a labour obligation and thus there was a further fill-up of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. So, all these circumstances, the context of all of this is that it really is in this and it means the procedural nature of looking and entering into the measure that those who have done so generally know neither the chain of command nor the command structure and that they are doing certain things that ended up in such a way that the Secretary of Defence, means at that time the Secretary of State for Defence, because there were more municipalities, that he was charged with the chain of command and that he was in the line of leadership and command. It is never in the line of leadership and command, it was the commander-in-chief, so the National Guard's assembly at that time, which is spoken of in this section, regional crisis headquarters, municipal crisis headquarters, and the Secretary of Defense has nothing, has no jurisdiction and all this says that this job is really sloppy and on the other hand it is not all by accident that happens, the trial began to mean General Praljak, General Petkovic and others, waiting for General Gotovina, waiting for Ademi, waiting for Markac. It's a very interesting situation, and I don't think there's any coincidence. On the other hand, today we listen to the Parliament of Cain and the other things that cast a stain on the Homeland War and only give the possibility that Charlie del Ponte and all the indisposeds who, and many of them do not know how and in what way the situation when the Ban Courts were bombed, what was the situation when the president of the state went to Belgrade and couldn't land so there was even a connection we didn't have here in the Croatian Parliament. What was the situation when there were 50 planes above Zagreb at the time of 8.10. This knows Luka Bebić, we know who we were and now something tells us, let's say Vesna Pusic, Damir Kajin something about this, about the Homeland War and everything else. Well, that really doesn't make sense anymore, and I don't want to listen. It may also be good that there is no television transmission because defenders who are tired of many things and as it is said about the Homeland War would probably not be able to watch it. Therefore, there are many procedural shortcomings,... and in terms of the core and the chain of command and everything else, that I, neither as a lawyer nor as a Croatian defender, Colonel of the Croatian Army, a member of the Croatian party of law cannot support this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64634	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64635	Mr. President, it's not a routine day, nor is it a routine decision to remove immunity from Mr. Branimir Glavas. I will try to remember this day under the circumstances that today is the birthday of Ruži Tomasic, and what we will download, or what you will remove, immunity should be remembered and analyzed in one historical context. Why isn't that a routine decision? Because she has more of her implications. The first is a historically symbolic implication... a well-known guru of posmodern showed that after this process trials on war participants in these areas are entering a post-modern phase where anything is possible and impossible, where there are no clear definitions of moral or immoral, neither truth nor lies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, our great narration on Osijek, the Homeland War on June 27, 1991, and that of the Yugoslav People's Army that brought down the fiche. The symbolic implications of this famous staff were so striking that they were recorded in the BBC series "Death of Yugoslavia" because they reflected the ideas of not only the Croatian public at the time but the sovereign world in relation to military power, justice and injustice, aggressors and victims. After this, the removal of this immunity from the judicial process that will follow will have to be changed, they are slowly changing systematically. I'll tell you why I've been contacted by a personal reserve in relation to the decision to remove immunity. Branimir Glavas himself, as far as I understand, had no objection to removing that immunity, someone who lives 15 years on the assumption that he's innocent in psychosis that every week some newspaper can publish on two or three or four pages of text how skeletons fall out of the closet or how they sail through Dravi and Dunava lives in one emotional and every other hell. It has already been mentioned that he has a family and that these families, especially as far as I see a son, are in a formative phase. These were all reasons for the state's attorney to approach this file with the greatest possible responsibility. As usual, his approach was superficial, offensively superficial to the committee that decided yesterday on the removal of that immunity, there was already talked about higher levels, several levels and offensive surfaces in relation to this High House and this Assembly Committee. First of all, he made a decision on the confiscation or delegation or confiscation of the local jurisdiction of the Osijek and county attorneys and the County Court there, which is one of the additional stigmatisation of both the city of Osijek and the local judiciary. If the Hague Court has so much confidence in the Croatian judiciary that it can first leave all the processes to the Croatian judiciary, and then it can give in documentation to the State's Attorney's Office regarding the launch of war crimes, the minimum confidence in the city of Osijek and the appreciation of its contribution to defence in the Croatian Homeland War was to leave the case to the local judiciary, so both the attorney's office and the county court. Only yesterday after insisting that the chief state attorney would have to act under the law was a break. In a way, it was called I also suggested that his name was Mladen Bajic. Apparently, he was out of the State's Attorney's Office somewhere in some important business, and in some rather offensive, superficial way he was satisfied with the form. This raises doubts, and I will personally be against removing immunity that a state attorney can do so in a way that deserves such a case because it is a precedent. When it comes to the mass psychological level of this case won't be within these ten times that I'm talking about it, however, I'm going to talk about another level, and that's that the State's Attorney's Office should, in new circumstances, offer this House a long-term strategy of carrying on, let's say, a criminal legacy from aggression to Croatia and from the Homeland War. I'll remind you again of the relationship between the tank and the fiche. The state's attorney's office has not filed any criminal charges against the former president of the Federal Executive Council of Ante Markovic, General Kadijevic, General Mamula, and has no intention of doing so. Against Adzic, it has not filed any more serious criminal charges against the criminal project holders within the framework of approximately, perhaps someone will correct me, 25.5 thousand members or paramilitary or military troops that have come under the provisions of the Law of Forgiveness. Therefore, if we are right today to give the Croatian judiciary and Branimir Glavas a chance to defend his honour in Croatia because a normal man could not live for 15 years in such psychosis, I do not know what a man would have done if he were in his place. Then we have to ask the State's Attorney's office and the judiciary to do this job right. As far as this High House is concerned, I think we should appoint a group of observers in the trial process in this case to be one group of four, five parliamentary deputies who would inform this House of the process because the experience with my chief state attorney is personally negative. He won 100% of the vote in reelection. I'd be against it, but that's the day I was. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who? ... One was restrained, thank God. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, this type of surface shows that we have no reason to believe that this is one process that will guarantee a fair trial and will have multiple negative consequences on future processes because after this process in Carla Del Ponte's bag of unprocessed documents, the case is both Sisak and Petrinja and other cases. And there are a few colleagues in this House that will not have peaceful dreams, and these are all the reasons that we have to approach this process as one process that is not routine in nature and that will not be aware of any politicizing but on the one hand, taking seriously the importance of the Croatian rule of law and on the other hand of historical and state responsibility towards the city of Osijek in which a thousand and 200 people have given their lives. And the last line I'm going to say, I'm going to quote a kind of intellectual legacy called Dobris Cosic, a well-known Serbian writer who is the father of all accidents in these areas. Not in Sunday's telegram, December 29, 2000, published a text that follows, or a reference to, his text on how the lie in the history of the Serbian people saved him more than his heroism. He says in this text that Serbs must receive in peace what they lost in the war and in selecting witnesses in such processes should be very critical because in the context of these two statements we can expect that witnesses will neither be impartial nor objective, nor true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64636	Replica's esteemed representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64637	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! In this inspired discussion, my fellow Letica, with whom I could agree, I had a lot on my mind. The first thing that fell to me and this debate itself is saying that we are a tragic people and that we have a tragic history. Our tragedy can be measured by Armenian, Kurdish, Jewish and other tragedies. On the other hand, I also fell a loud Jewish proverb saying, "Israel, Israel, your destruction is in you." As we speak today of Branimir Glavas, I am not his lawyer, if he is guilty, if he is innocent, God help him and his family to overcome these difficulties. As we speak today of Branimir Glavas who was a true hero of the Homeland War and who has immeasurable merits regardless of who said and what process he was responsible for saving Osijek. As we speak of him today in this city, a hero who lost more than a thousand and 200 people in the Homeland War, who was burned and destroyed, no one answered. Another tragedy that has been imposed on me as we speak of Branimir Glavas today as a true hero for me in this Croatian Parliament which he has torn down and burned down by the Croatian state today comes one of the most respected Croatian Chetniks Veljko Djakula. While we are talking about Branimir Glavas, two respected Chetniks are sitting in the Croatian Assembly today. It's our tragedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64638	Comrade Lonchart, hold on a little bit of consideration. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, peace. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Order! Order! Enough! The answer to the line of the Slavic Letica. ... Order, please! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Order! Enough! Enough with the two of you! ... Order! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Order! ... Ivo Lonchar, peace! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please don't come in on me. Here you go, fellow Flyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64639	Well, I wouldn't agree with my colleague Lonchar if we were a tragic people. It is thesis, precisely the key thesis due to Cosic's text on how everyone against Serbs, how Serbs lost everything. In this war, however, the Croatian people not only defended Croatia but ended, stopped the huge Serbian aggression in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, helped bring peace to light, and I would remind you already when I was given the opportunity for Mr. President to gather that commission to end the work on the declaration "Storms" [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64640	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64641	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues to determine the truth about the 1991 Osijek events can be said rightly and for a reason better than ever. It can also be said that justice is slow, but that justice is never too late. Unfortunately, this case is specific in many ways, so it is not possible to observe it only in such legal frameworks. It's been 15 years since the killing of citizens in Osijek. Of these 15 years, the HDZ has been in power and is now in power. So even at the time of the Osijek events and in the years thereafter, the same political worldview was in power and all mechanisms of government including the judiciary held in his hands. In addition, the same people were then the other 11 years, and the authorities were on high duties, including judicial duties. Now, let's remember that in 1991, in wartime, a democratic and constitutional trio was working on legislative, executive and judicial authority? Bad. Those who try to claim otherwise that it wasn't so I think they're deliberately trying to convince the public of what the public has long since believed. Here, too, in the assembly today, people who know very well that at that time were practicing a different practice. Instead of formal by the Constitution of the prescribed triodoba, they really and practically carried out the so-called so-called triodoba. the unity of power. I've listened carefully to all the debates so far, and I have to say that we need to remember a little bit both the atmosphere and the state of security at the time of the war in Osijek. Internal affairs were then a very important part of the executive and police as the most operational part of the executive government with certain efforts, doing its best. They've been done, let's remember the insights, the criminal processing of every known and accessible case. Instead of support, some in Slavonia and in other areas of the state have put an atmosphere of mistrust through such internal affairs and police. Let us also remember the Minister of Interior and Bolkovec and Vekic were told not to be desirable in Slavonia, and when their assistants came, they were labeled "Tite dogs" or "Tudjman's feces". At the time, the chief of police Osijek, late Jose Reichl-Kir, was warned by the minister and some members of the government about such a possibility before he was killed. Ten days before his death, or murder, he sent a letter warning that his liquidation was being prepared. At that time, police have filed a very large number of criminal charges against known and unknown perpetrators to attack the life and body of citizens, including numerous attempted murder and murder. Compared to the number of reports with the number of investigations, and especially with the number of trials, we will actually come up with a very negligible number of reactions by the then judicial authorities. For such an atmosphere in Slavonia, the selfish state government and the people who were then and today were on prominent duties knew. And when the change took place in 2000, citizens expected to clarify most of the unexplained cases, including the killings of citizens in Osijek. In this case, there is nothing today that could not then be established in the mandate of the coalition government. So if it were an honest and fair approach, it would almost be in that idyllic Bible "Don't do anything else, what you don't want them to do to you." Of course it wasn't about that, it was about typical Croatian political pragmatism. And now that a new one could have happened in 2006 in the case of the 1991 murder of Osijek citizens? Lawyers, particularly investigative judges and criminals, know that new evidence does not arise over time. On the contrary, the signs of the end of time are destroyed, and other ways are gone. No one can convince anyone that there is nothing in this case today, or something that was not in the right sense in 1991. Of course, that doesn't mean there's nothing new. In this case, the novelty seems to be the political divergence of people who were political equalists and close at personal level at the time of the Osijek events and years afterwards. I must admit it really leaves a bitter taste in Mr. Shex's mouth that, at times of sensational events and years after them, was always at the top of the government. In fact, he was on duty to be aware of such events. President of the Eastern Croatian Crisis Staff, the public prosecutor of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Prime Minister in charge of internal politics. And it's really hard to believe that nothing was ever known about anything. To the people of the then and present government, Glavas has been a hero of the Homeland War for years, a prominent citizen and a politician of format. I'll quote one verse: "Strange people live here, everything they love crucifies." Today, it's easy to say that everything that happened in Slavonia is bad. It is the easiest thing to say today, however, for this country the most difficult fact is that it is not the whole truth. If Branimir Glavas and any of us in the assembly are reasonably suspected as perpetrator of a crime should conduct an investigation, the trial should be conducted. But with the trial of Glavas, people from the then and present times are trying to do things, following their own conscience. Here is the search for truth and justice mask to wash your own conscience, but also the mask that disguises the underground battle for the politically lost Slavonia. The public will surely support the investigation, because it is in her best interest to make things clear. But the government will remain a duty to the citizens to answer the question of what has been done all these years. If a responsible and professional investigation is conducted, the answer to these questions could also be given by the State's Attorney's Office, but also by the court. I'll be right back to square one. To determine the truth about the '91 Osijek events. A year can be said rightly and for a reason better ever than never. And I think that Croatia, which undoubtedly won the Homeland War, which won and went to its borders, must be given the opportunity to determine the truth of what happened in Osijek in '91. the years have happened and who is individually guilty of these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64642	It's very interesting, Mrs. Scare Ozboltov. Mentioning me in the context, so the only person who can't be the one to blame, but Vladimir Seks was the vice president of the Eastern Croatian Cross Headquarters, he was a public prosecutor. That, it really should have insinuated me in this way. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64643	... In 208, in relation to the 214th, you're plimulating with me, and you haven't given yourself a word. [[Specially enabled.]] I'll remind you that you're in '91. they were president of the Crescent headquarters. From 10 April to 12 August '92. You were a public prosecutor. Since 14 August '92. By the fall of '94. You were Deputy Prime Minister for Internal Policy for the year. This is your official resume. That's all I remind you of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64644	Yeah. But very naughty. Very naughty and very insidious Mrs. Scare Ozbolt. Because you have to mention my functions that I acted during these 15 years in the context of removing the immunity of Branimir Glavas. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go. Here you go, Miroslav Rožić [[Intruder: The breach of the Rules of Procedure should have been.]] Yes, very nice. [[/Intruder: Injury of the Rules of Procedure is sought. I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64645	Mr. President, it is inappropriate for you to abuse that chair where we installed you and to insult your representatives and to read lessons and be like a lid on a pot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64646	I refuse to object that this is about hurting the Rules of Procedure. And your behavior is extremely offensive. But that's probably why you have enough reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64647	You're hurting the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64648	Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. Here you go, Miroslav Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64649	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In one of my previous mandates as a representative of the Croatian Parliament, I was also a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so allow me a few words about actually what we are discussing here today, which is taking away immunity from the MP. So on several occasions it is already in this debate here, and otherwise in public it is said that individual representatives deny their immunity. Or that he would give up his immunity, etc., etc. Therefore, immunity cannot be denied by any representative. There is no Institute of Immunity Denial, there is only the Institute of Immunity Abuse, and that is why we are discussing it here today. Namely, the immunity of the MPs is independable from his mandate and immunity is not any special privilege of the MPs, but it simply gets that immunity along with its mandate. Therefore, there is unfortunately a rule in the Croatian Parliament in the Mandate-Immunity Commission that is clearly in line with what I have just said, which is actually a constitutional category and legal category. This unwritten rule of the Commission is that it will not take away immunity from MPs in private lawsuits, but that it will confiscate immunity from MPs at the request of the State Attorney's Office. So the more stupidity I never in the Croatian Parliament managed to hear, clarify and understand, nor hear any argument that could actually support this one attitude. In the European standards to which we are so often and often called in all domains of social life in Croatia, including economic and any other, confiscation of immunity to a representative is a precedent that cannot be easily found in the practice of European parliaments. He doesn't usually happen. And if anyone has data when in any European Parliament of a European democratic state, the last time has been taken away is the immunity of a representative, let me take that information and let's look at the basis of what. However, we benevolently actually banish the Institute of Immunity in a way if the State Attorney's Office prepared or unprepared in such a situation or in such a situation submits a request for the withdrawal of immunity that our Mandate-Immunity Commission will satisfy it without any greater tensions to this request. And now to get to the point of things. Ladies and gentlemen, the liquidation of 30 innocent civilians is not possible to hide in a multimillion-dollar city like New York, for example. But it's not possible to hide in the den of a Bosnian village like the Topons that you may have already forgotten many of you, so I'm going to visit you like Križanjce's village or the flea's house. Even there, it wasn't even possible to hide it. I deliberately don't mention those examples you remember very well, because these are two places where war crimes have actually been committed against Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which no one mentions them, especially in the media. And for that reason, I think it's almost impossible to hide one such war crime in a city like Osijek, its size and its structure. That's why I don't believe anything like that was discovered only last year, and I'm even less convinced that last year it was only last year that responsibility was revealed, the alleged responsibility for Mr. Glavas. Because I cannot believe that for these alleged liquidations of innocent civilians, and particularly the alleged responsibility of Mr. Glavas knew nothing for 13 to 14 years, I cannot imagine that, for example, Mr. Glavas would be protected by people such as Mr. Lucin or Ivanisevic, or that the Prime Minister Mr. Racan would miss judging Mr. Glavas for four years of his government. For these very reasons, I am deeply convinced that Mr. Glavas' case is a politically motivated procedure, and since the parliamentary immunity he was talking about at the beginning exists in order to protect the advocate from political persecution by abuse of criminal proceedings. It is the obligation of every MP in this Croatian Assembly who is not convinced of Glavas' guilt or how it is popularly popular with the Anglo-Saxon legal dictionary today says there is at least an element of justifiable doubt that he is voting against the withdrawal of immunity from the MPs, our fellow MPs and that is why I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64650	Thank you. Representative Branimir Glavas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64651	Mr. President, I'm going to try to say in a few more words what I couldn't say back there at that pay phone. What's going on? They made me lord of life and death, judge, officer and executioner. My city of Osijek, which I defended, called the city of the case, called it the twilight zone, called it a city where there was no P from the rule of law. By the way of the media, and by the directive of my former party friends, I am crucified on a pillar of shame. All the bad things that were going on in Osijek called for my credit, all the good that was going on in Osijek, they took possession of themselves. They called me guilty of all those deaths in Osijek, of all the bad things that happened in Osijek during those years of war and declared me a war criminal wanting to throw me on my knees and ask me to beg for mercy. Gentlemen, I ask no one for mercy, I am one of thousands of defenders who defended Osijek when the Serbian army came near our heroic city after the fall of Vukovar, and when that same army killed the city for nine months and killed over 1260 citizens of Osijek, almost a thousand civilians. When she tried to destroy the city we were defending and the city we were defending. Today, many of those who have killed Osijek are walking freely across this state of Croatia, free to walk beyond the borders of Croatia, because it doesn't really matter, and it is important to declare Glavas a murderer. In that city of twilight, gentlemen there was a rule of law that worked and did not allow the city of Osijek to become a zone of twilight. During the war in the same city, the city of twilight where there was no rule of law, two thousand cases were legally sentenced and solved at the Osijek Military Court. More than two thousand people have been convicted of various crimes of which 255 cases have been legally completed for crimes against life and the body, 205 of which are cases of crime-related murders. In that court, prison sentences have been imposed for up to 20 years and Glavas has never interfered or interfered with the work of that judicial institution. It was not meant for war criminals who destroyed the city, it was meant for indictees who wore the Croatian Army uniform and who were justly tried for their misdeeds. During that city... there were many delegations from Vienna, Paris, Brixelles and Stockholm in those early years, as so former Mayor Kramaric. They considered Osijek to be a city where the rule of law ceases and the zone of twilight begins, but they became convinced after their personal insight that it was not a direct court in Osijek, but a court that judges under the law and the Constitution as well as all courts of civilised Europe. They were surprised when in April 1992 they came to the Red War where 157 arrested rebels from Budimac were arrested who had been placed in rooms before that maximumly adapted to the conditions of such a stay, where the floors had been laminated, and the walls were decorated, and the beds on white had been laid. For them, more than 30 showers were made, 30 wet knots while at the same time in military custody, but the floor below was imprisoned by prisoners of Croatian soldiers who were lying on mats in the dust and who remained in custody and when the Budinians were released after the Abolition Act. It was in that Star Trek in the twilight zone. While members of the Croatian Army remained in custody and awaited a decision on their illegal behaviour until there were 14,000 rebels among whom the cannons and tanks destroyed churches, hospitals, killing civilians were released because it was a matter of politics and not rights. How many of these were responsible for the crimes in the Far, Borov village, Lovas, Berk, Vukovar, Vinkovci? A little or almost nothing. It was important to declare Glavas a war criminal and remove him from this political scene, and those who destroyed villages and cities of Slavonia for co-existence, abolize, amnesty because they were seduced and did not know what they were doing. Gentlemen, I am to blame for going to war. I am guilty of arming myself during the time of Yugoslavia, of buying weapons and sharing them with my friends, of acting against the law of that time, and I could have been tried as a terrorist because I was about to tear down the then state of Yugoslavia. I'm also guilty because I closed Osijek before winter 1991. It is my fault that I opposed the idea that the Croatian military command of the operational zone Osijek went from Osijek to Nasice, that civilian courts moved to Lower Miholjac. I'm guilty of saying to those who stayed in Osijek "you can't go anywhere, you have to fight for this city, for this region, for this country". Gentlemen, it's my crime and I'm responsible for it and I'll take it upon myself. Why are you in charge and why Osijek? Because Glavas told his former party not and because Glavas took along more than a quarter of the vote of the electoral body in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. That's why Glavas became very troubled, and that's why Glavas is being sent messages from his former friend to defuse politics and to accept preparations for his defense. Well, I'm not going to let politics go, because this is all so expensive that I'm out of politics, but I'm preparing my defense, and I'm going to defend myself. And you're wrong if you think this is the kind of press, this kind of attempt to compromise me away from politics. I'd get away from politics because I've had enough politics. I'm tired of it. But who am I going to leave it to? Who am I going to leave this room to? People sitting in Parliament, beating up their party colleagues. Should I leave them to take care of the fourth constituency? People sitting at the Home Secretary's post, and they're hiding it, they're not allowing an investigation? Don't let these things get out. The thugs? I can't think of anything, gentlemen. And that is why it is likely that this process is not being mounted, and it comes from the middle, from the vault that is headed by people who the whole public knows are misusing their positions, to protect fellow parliamentary advocates who savagely beat up a man and the police, the minister, with the support of the Prime Minister, hide the case. That is why I will not withdraw from politics because such people would master political Croatian space. Winning local elections in Osijek-Baranja County and an open hunt for Branimir Glavas. I became troublesome because I tried to open my county residents' eyes saying they had to fight for their fields, for their villages, for their cities, for their Slavonia. Then Glavas became a real danger, especially for his former party. Because people stopped believing in something imaginary, something unfathomable, something that's out of their everyday life. They began to take an interest in their problems, pay problems, pensions, water contribution problems, incentive problems, survival problems. They started to think why they were for this country when in the war... The most they gave when they paid for it with blood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that country forgot about them after the war. It was considered if Glavas were declared a war criminal and removed from the political scene then that movement would disappear and be all the same. Slavonci will go to Zagreb where they will deal with major national problems, become Zagreb and forget about Slavonia. That's why it was necessary to find those troubled people who would say, I saw him, I heard he did it and that. That's why hundreds of Croatian defenders have been through police interrogations over the past six months, through all kinds of pressures where they were promised to get rid of pensions, jobs, only if they say Glavas ordered murders in Osijek. Troublemakers have been found who are asked to bring out something that would be difficult to burden Glavas. To bring out that they witnessed the murders he committed and ordered Glavas. These troubled persons were believed to have been the Chetnik dukes who were raising rebellion in the vicinity of Osijek, who shared arms with the rebel Serbs from whom police seized the same weapon, yet those persons gained the status of innocent civilian victims whose civil rights Branimir Glavas violated roughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64652	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64653	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Glavas is an incorrect allegation where he claimed there was no one left to leave the 4th constituency when he left. There are honest and honest people who do their duties day and night and take care of every city, every municipality and every place, not hiding in basements and there earning general rank. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64654	Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64655	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I wouldn't be talking here today about taking off... I wouldn't be talking here today about taking down Branimir Glavas' immunity because I know it's a political decision and I'm sure you'll take it down politically here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Just as this process is politically prepared. It's not safe to work where the laws in this country should be respected. And if the question had been made there, would this item of the agenda even happen today? I'd rather recall the time mentioned in this proposal for an investigation. It is 91st year, it is the time when the Croatian state was created and which we remember today with the seed because it is one of the most honorable and most brilliant periods in Croatian history. Despite how we all speak this way, I must remember even though I was young, I remember well the times and things that were happening at the time. I remember those grenades that fell on Croatian cities, on Đakovo, Vukovar, Vinkovar, I'm talking about more famous because I'm from there. I remember those snipers who beat, especially in Osijek, which is one big city. It simply was not possible for a child or a civilian or a soldier or anyone else to leave his apartment safely, to go out to buy bread or food for the children without being exposed to one mortal danger. I also remember the 5th column that reported the venues in the city, even the instructions of enemy missiles to fall where they should and where the most painful Croatian army and Croatian people hurt. You were recently able to read in the newspaper a statement from a counterintelligencer at the time, Sefer Halilovic, who filed a report, he was normally in charge of the area of Đakovština and the surrounding area, who publicly admits a month ago in the newspaper that he had a lot of co-workers in the area of Đakov, that he had even received audio footage of the crisis headquarters sessions, and otherwise the crisis headquarters at that time, the municipal crisis headquarters there were people of special trust and simply at that time me who lived there and who knew those people that someone had told me that one of them was recording it and that I would be shocked and now it's also not clear that something like that could happen, but here is the truth and all that was happening at that time. When I got my first rifle in '91. For years I was thinking the happiest man and it was one of the happiest moments of my life because I was given the opportunity to participate in the creation of this Croatian state and simply help defend that aggression that has been preparing against our then unrecognized homeland. In the city of Osijek alone, a thousand died and 260 people, over 5,000 people were wounded. I'm asking you here how many charges have been filed on these specific cases? Each number is one soul, one man, one person. Not one. Only sometime in the 11th or 12th month of last year, means when the ruling party has already decided to take these steps and to place the indictment against Branimir, then one criminal complaint has been filed against three Yugoslav People's Army officers, and that on the other hand, it has been released to the media simply to establish some balance and that I could not say today in my performance that no one has been charged. There are three accused in absentia. So they're not in a position for the judicial authorities, to bring these people in to answer for those crimes they committed. Despite all these problems, most Croatian defenders proudly and raised their heads with guns to their positions, on their lines where they defended the Croatian state, aware that they may never return from that duty to their families. Also last night when I was thinking about what I could say today in this debate I remembered, I said I'm going to go online, I'm going to look at cases from other countries, other countries that have had aggression towards themselves and their country, to see how their judicial bodies, how their ruling structures relate to such cases because people have died in these countries and wars are such that unfortunately people die. I remembered this film the other day that I watched on TV in Slovenia where it was seen on film that shot the territorial defence of Slovenia and that soldiers were cut down... Their guns. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I looked at what happened after that. There was a charge of showing this film, I expected it to be like with us, that the State's Attorney's office would jump, start to process it, that state institutions, that their President of Parliament would be manifested, that they would announce some kind of investigation, processes, that their prime minister would get involved, however, as far as I've seen there from that information there was nothing. All of them as one denied that anything had happened there, I can't argue that the film was correct, whether it was authentic, whether there was a war crime there, but surely in all of Slovenia there couldn't be found any person to say anything but they all jumped together in defense of that war of their own that lasted several days. I've seen some other Western European countries that have had wars in a few dozen years, but I haven't found anything. Then I remembered the United States, they have two wars a year. The river there must have been responsible for war crimes, especially the kind of weapon they used, the buildings they hit, so here we can see in neighbouring Serbia how many civilian buildings and civilian casualties there were during the bombing by the United States. I couldn't find a single indictment there either. I've only found the mentioned article in 98, which means a pre-bian is looking for the protection of American soldiers in future wars if they make something that they can't be tried, simply that they can't commit a war crime. I was even more surprised to hear the signals from prominent politicians from today's ruling party, and even the Prime Minister Sanader's president who says he's considering signing that article in the 98th, and I remember that election campaign in 2003 when he politely declared that he understood the policy of the United States and that it wasn't excluded when he was prime minister to sign the article, so I'm a little surprised that the same consideration and the same archaic who used US soldiers to use it for both our defenders and Croatian soldiers because he would certainly find himself in a much better situation than they are today when he takes care of those in this way. The fact is that in this policy that is being conducted today in Croatia comes to one division, a new division of defenders that has not been formally published, but we see from day to day that defenders can be divided into convicted war crimes defenders, here we have General Mirko Norc and a number of others, then you have accused war crimes defenders, some of them are in the process, through the media we see that the indictments are being prepared. And the third kind, you're the happiest, they're suspected war crimes defenders. So according to this policy how today is simply not a single man who wore a gun at the time, the honorable time is not absolved of any responsibility. He's already at the beginning guilty, it comes to you something like an Eastern sin, just waiting for some protected false witness to confirm it to begin the procedure. Simply because of all these things, people are afraid to say they were at war. Even some state officials who went to pre-election campaigns in the 1990s, were drilling into their chests to defend Osijek, defending Slavonia, Lika or Gorski Kotar today, shouting that they were only there as civilians, coming to see if there was milk and bread for children, and fortunately there are some benefits that they used from rank, points, job internships and others so that there was still some clue and they will not be able to deny that they were in the Croatian Army, although it is an honor to me, but it is obvious that some think otherwise. I would still refer to this politically mounted indictment against my friend Branimir Glavas. I'd just say one example, that's maybe not the case, but here's one technical thing that's going to say a lot. 25.4. State lawyer Mladen Bajic withdraws the case in that letter he later likely wrote, withdraws the subject from the Osijek State Attorney's Office and hands it over to treatment also 25.4. The County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb. They were very fast because on the same day they were conducting these investigative activities and already 25.4. the completely completed object that they performed in those few hours, complete meanings and pre-examinations, return it to state attorney Mladen Bajic. Mr. Mladen Bajic until he studies in detail means complete, writes one letter and sends the same day a letter to the president of the Croatian Parliament for treatment of the request for removal of immunity. Mr. Damir Sesvečan, as chairman of the committee, convenes a committee meeting with this subject on May 3rd and Mr. Seks sends him the subject and request for treatment on May 4th. So he called up the session in advance before the request came to him. I think this clearly says how fast it was done, how mounted it was. Yeah. [[Intruder: The HDZ Central Committee has made a decision.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64656	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64657	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! So I would have come back a little less than five years ago here also in this Croatian Parliament when one of the MPs and then the prominent and ambitious Croatian Democratic Union official spoke precisely about the abolition of immunity and immunity, the proposal to abolish immunity went to the representatives of his party. At that time, it was a process of criminalisation, demonisation and introduction to politically mounted processes. He strongly defended the party but also his own view that it is inadmissible for the Croatian Parliament to satisfy with automation any requirement that comes from the State's Attorney's Office until the Parliament assesses whether the request to initiate criminal proceedings is based on law or not. Those are your words, Mr. Shakespeare. And here I am today after less than five years with you completely, completely agreeing. I am thinking in the same way as you five years ago and I think it is unacceptable that the Croatian Parliament as the most legislative body of the Republic of Croatia automatically and mechanically raises its hands satisfys everyone, but not every request for the removal of parliamentary immunity by the State's Attorney's Office without first entering the heart of the problem and not establishing or discussing the legality of this process. In doing so, I would like to stress my personal point of view. The parliamentary immunity must not protect proven criminals and thieves, even less war criminals, but everyone is innocent until proven guilty, and until there is a rightful verdict for the evil he has committed. And the role of the Croatian Parliament as the highest legislative body is to ensure the smooth and quality implementation of laws and regulations by the institutions of the legal system. In recent history, war crime is special for Croatia and I would dare to tell a tragic story here. In the brutal and imposed war, Croatia was exposed to daily shelling of villages and cities, as a rule of civil objects where the lives and body parts lost hundreds, thousands of civilians, women and children. Seeking justice and moral satisfaction, Croatia itself participated in the establishment of the UN war crimes tribunal but naively believing in the objectivity and justice of the legal system of the International Community that will be able to prosecute, prove and sanction all war crimes. Of course, I do not exclude war crimes committed by individuals on the Croatian side. But what have we experienced? We have experienced that the UN Prosecutor's Office is seeking the extradition of one general at a time, we have experienced that the Croatian political military summit for organised criminal action is being accused. And while the Hague judges the Croatian state, allow me to take my view that the Croatian Government passively observes the criminalisation of the Homeland War is ready to extradite its generals at every moment of the International Community in the function of some allegedly understandable and superior state interests. On the other hand, these same representatives of the current government have full understanding and publicly advocate the signing of a contract with the United States on the non-delivery of US citizens to the International Criminal Court. One thing is certain, parliamentary immunity cannot be a protection against prosecution. Crime, thieving or war crimes anyway, and war crimes must mainly be sanctioned. In a normally regulated state where the legal system works and the executive bodies of the authorities and the judiciary consistently enforce laws and regulations can happen also Imostroy, and Liburni, and Stone Ingrad, and Viktor Lenac, and Šimacu, and Brodosplit but it cannot happen that the judiciary acts passively, closes its eyes, that criminal proceedings are launched only against political insatiables and small fish and the protégés of the current political elite continue to act as if nothing had happened. Listen, Glavas is a typical example of political accounting and abuse of legal system institutions with the highest level of government. Branimir Glavas General of the Croatian Army is a parliamentary representative in all terms one of the forty-eight founders of the Croatian Democratic Community. Although just over a year ago, in rare moments of honesty, the current prime minister called him a visionary a few months after overnight he was expelled from the Croatian Democratic Union. And that is the democratic right of every political party. But for one democratic party that bids to introduce Croatia into Europe, the European Union was not expected to continue to deal with its entire party problem by political pressures, retributions and threats. Aware of the popularity of Mr Glavas, the trust and support he enjoys not only in Slavonia and Baranja, the HDZ leadership rightly concluded that their party in the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County fell apart right before the local elections. The results of the local elections for the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County confirmed the guard of the HDZ centre. The independent list of Branimir Glavas was convincingly won in both Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. And the remnants of HDZ from several seats won in the Osijek-Baranja County assembly and with two council members in the City Council of Osijek became a minor political option without any influence on the social and political developments at local level. Meanwhile, no funds were chosen to compromise Mr. Glavas. With the highest levels of the state government of Glavas, the Independent List and the HDZ Citizens' Association label the autonomists. They insist it is an attempt to bring down the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia. For party interests of abuse of power and state institutions. They serve vengeance by replacing all those who are not politically alike. During the night on the street was the assistant minister of Croatian defences, head of the Osijek customs office, head of the tax administration in Osijek, director of the clinic with his assistants, numerous members of the supervisory and administrative councils. I'm sorry to mention this, but Mr. Hebrang was able to say about similar situations "Bartholomean Night". The head has obviously become a nightmare for individuals from the top of the HDZ government. With a completely false assumption that the compromise and elimination of Glavas and the intimidation of his contemporaries will simultaneously destroy a healthy civic initiative of Slavonian Baranja man whose primary goal is to improve Slavonia and Baranja and evenly develop all regions in the Republic of Croatia. The final request of the State Attorney's Office to remove immunity to Branimir Glavas is, in fact, the final act of the political accounting of the ruling HDZ after persistent and unsuccessful attempts to bring down the legitimately elected authorities in the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County. From the chronology of what preceded the request of the State's immunity and layman, it is clear that it is politically motivated and conducted actions where political decision was made in the spring of last year that Branimir Glavas must be guilty. A shift to the police administration of Osijek-Baranja County followed, and a politically-like man was appointed as chief of staff with the support of the state summit in all possible ways and through the media tried to impose the the thesis that Osijek was defended on a crime, where in the media there was no credible evidence at the centre of attention. On the contrary, why can't you believe in the process of trusting Mr. Shakespeare himself when he claims he had no information about the connection between Branimir Glavas and the alleged liquidations of the Osijek Serbs and that he believes in his innocence? Is it true that Mr. Glavas, a close associate of the state’s chief attorney who was in Osijek from July to September 1991, was in the same building where Glavas was not a credible witness? Does Mr. Mladen Bajic think that today's President of the Croatian Parliament would not have done so in 1992 while acting as chief state attorney initiating an investigation and criminal proceedings against Branimir Glavas? That he had the slightest indication or suspicion of his involvement in war crimes. [[Okay, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64658	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64659	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64660	Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Miomir Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64661	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Representative in listing some so-called Cases that the prosecution allegedly did not process also mentioned "Imo Machine" which surprises me because he, as a parliamentary representative, received a report from the State's Attorney's Office on the case of "Imo Machine". The other thing is that some of the truth that's been found out didn't like it, but by ignoring it, I don't think it can prove anything, especially in other cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64662	Second correction by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64663	Thank you, Mr. President. It should take a lot of time to respond not only to incorrect but harsh insinuations and false allegations made by his colleague Šišljagic. First of all, raising this indictment is a political goal and starting from the Croatian Democratic Community. That's just not true. As much as you resist showing it to the Croatian public, there is not a shred of truth in it. You know that very well. And finally, and finally it's quite clear that after these and your steps it's clear that HDZ has made a good move excluding you from the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64664	Third, respected representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64665	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The honourable Mr. MP has repeatedly insisted that this is a political process. I don't think that's a good idea. Accept, let the suspect accept the defenses using everything that gives him the law because politicization speaks against all of you who advocate it. The second is the incomparable "Bartholomean Night" made by the SDP and the shifts you mentioned are not comparable at all, nor is anything comparable to that "Bartholomew Night" comparable. But it's comparable what you did to your colleague Šišljagić, so, let's say, you replaced the head nurse of the Osijek hospital, the woman who was the hero of the Homeland War and who was the mother of all the wounded all the time in those basements. You're a witness to that, but you did it because of your personal conflicts. So "Bartholomew Night" is what you made, not us. And in the end, you pulled me by the tongue and by Shimatza. You'd have to know when there's a powerful verdict on one case that's no longer at least cultural about it again. I have a ruling from 1996 started a process in which the one who initiated the affair was condemned. I hope they have this other one against you soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64666	Thank you. Josip Djakic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64667	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the incorrect statement in which Mr. Šišljagic claimed that the top of the Croatian government is pressures, threats and shifts to be dealt with with with by his inexperiences. It is an absolute inaccuracy because such methods we have seen at the county level in Osijek-Baranja County and I wonder if there is a county institution or firm where they have not changed everything that was any other option or which did not sign the accession card for their regional party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64668	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64669	Mr. President, Article 210 in connection with 209 in connection with 210, 211. It's about me not reacting to the first speaker for the first time, but I really have to react now. Mr. Hebrang, I didn't replace any head nurse. I ask you to bring the truth to this audience. I didn't replace any chief nurse of the clinic, but I also didn't want to respect but not just me, your insistence on setting up a certain person.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64670	Well, you cannot address your colleague Šišljagic this way for the correction of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64671	The correction of the Rules of Procedure is that it is permitted to present notorous lies and lies at this assembly session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64672	Well, that's what you're saying, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please. Dear Representative, Vice President of the House Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64673	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm really sorry that this debate is developing in this direction, and that it's actually about the metrics rarely speaking. There have been several references to our assignment today. But I won't be able to avoid it either, and I won't be able to resist commenting on a matter. I've even mentioned it here a few times. I can say that during the war, especially at the beginning, I was very often in Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, Vinkovci and also in Vukovar several times. and also as defence minister, and later as president of the Assembly Council. I can say that I have spent more time in this area during the war than in my native Dalmatia, because in those parts that have also defended themselves in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the south of Croatia. I can testify to a lot of things. I can testify that Branimir Glavas was the organizer of the City of Osijek's defenses, especially in the area of arms procurement and military equipment. And I can confirm what Mr. Kovacevic already said that Mr. Branimir Glavas, right at the time that I was coming there, especially at the beginning of the war, had no authority, and that he could be responsible for what it was about. The other thing is that someone listened to Branimir Glavas, but Branimir Glavas had no authority. He was the president, he was the secretary, then he was called, for the defense of the Osijek Municipality. The headquarters were later formed. That's how Mr. Shex became President of the Crisis Staff, that's what he called himself, for Eastern Slavonia. I was in Southern Dalmatia at the same time, for seven municipalities. And it took you about a 10-hour, 12 days when the President of the Republic's decision was lifted. But even in those headquarters, the President of the Crisis Staff wasn't in charge of military matters. He was specifically appointed a commander who could order troops this or that. And when we talk about chain, chain of command and responsibility, then neither could Mr. Shakespeare order military or other matters. If he could, if he was crossing his powers. So could Glavas if he was crossing his powers. That's why I'm convinced that everything that's happened in Osijek, I'm convinced that for such accusations that are now being charged with Mr Branimir Glavas, he is not responsible. By my knowledge. So, further as things develop, the Chief Staff was formed under the Defence Act 20.09.'91. Then the entire jurisdiction and chain of command were established accordingly. So I am convinced of the innocence of Branimir Glavas. I'm convinced personally, and I'd like this process to confirm it in court. Because this is a judicial issue, not a political question. And that's why Mr. Glavas' statement that he wants everything that's been piling up for years to him or some others in other areas finally taken off him. So, I think I'll mention it, so it was mentioned that no senior official had been removed from his immunity. Ivan Jarnjak, the general, the minister was, the head of the UNS, the parliamentary representative and the words were not when his immunity was removed, with the possibility of being blamed because he was called for talks as a suspect. So he could have ended up in The Hague. And we didn't make any noise here. Stojekski Ivan Jarnjak put up with all this and Ivan Jarnjak is here, an honorable man who has not sinned, although he has been Minister of the Interior for a long time. And I'm sure that's the way it's gonna be for Branimir Glavas. And now I would like to comment on the debate of the Vesna Skara Ozbolt. I'm sorry she's not here. She was very incorrect towards President Shakespeare by mentioning his duties and functions. And she could on the way to balance mention it and she was, in the Office of the President of the Republic and the rest. And I'm going to say one more thing about Vesna Skara Ozbolt. I am convinced that neither would she have left HDZ if she had become what she wanted, Vice-President of the Parliament in 2000, nor would she now say a single word that she remained the minister of justice as she was. Her principles change according to her honor that she enjoys in this society. Here, that's what I wanted to tell her in the face here that she is, but she's gone. So I'm asking my colleagues to understand that we don't have a lot of options. Let's take the option of refusing to remove Mr. Glavas' immunity. Is that possible and what we got with it? I'm asking my colleague, Glavas, is that what he wants? I'm asking a question for another option. Let's just say the Parliament refuses to vote off the immunity required by a competent state attorney, and we're not a jury or judges here. We are here parliamentary representatives who have a permanent or non-permanent but constitutional and legal authority to discuss immunity and to decide on the request of the competent state authority. I refuse to participate and to participate in any political pranks against Branimir Glavas because he stepped out of HDZ, although he would have had more courage to say, he would have appreciated his courage to say what he did in 2004 and not waited in 2005 and waited... So you would be, why didn't I hear? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So let's be realistic, everyone, let's be a little bit less of a concept of our own size, let's be a little more realistic, all of us, a little more modest in judging our roles in the Homeland War and later. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We all need it, and I'm convinced that my colleague, Glavas, is going to be released from all these charges and I want it from his heart. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64674	Correction of an incorrect quote, Agent Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64675	I'm not giving up. Mr. Bebić incorrectly informed this Parliament, fortunately he could not give the general Croatian public because there was no television transmission. The president of the crisis staff was not authorized for military matters. The president of the regional crisis headquarters was an alpha and omega in his region installed by the central government in these wartime conditions with a concentration of political and military power, influence on politics and the military. He had the right hand of an officer, with us being the late Colonel Franjo Pejic, I don't know who it was with you, but he was responding to the president of the crisis staff, so don't deceive the public because it's simply not true. But that is neither the goal nor the intention to point a finger at anyone, but do not deceive the public. Secondly, it's a purely political issue. Because you have debated on all the cabinets and bodies of the parties about Branimir Glavas' problem, and as long as this, not you personally, is the leadership of the HDZ, let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64676	Okay, you have a replica now. You have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64677	HDZ leadership. I'm replicating exactly what Mr. Bebić is saying is not true and I'm replicating him for reasons and he mentioned Mr. Jarnjak and Mr. Jarnjak were removed immunity and not for these things. I've been stripped of immunity for similar things as Mr. Jarnjak in the last council meeting, so what? A resolved process, brought to an end, a finished story. There wasn't a big story at my place, and neither was the Capricorn. But it didn't threaten the Jarnjak with any danger of going to The Hague, it's also another one of your delusions, because that detachment of immunity to Mr. Jarnjak referred to a specific matter, as it did to me in that term, removing immunity for a particular matter as well as now removing immunity for a particular matter. And because you're sure that I'm going to be innocent and prove my innocence, I don't doubt it at all, because you know well who was involved in that installation and how much effort it took to get some frames for this to come out on a public and political stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64678	Replica response, respected representative and vice president Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64679	As for the jurisdiction of the crisis staff, and I now have the decision of the President of the Republic where they indicated who was responsible for what was in the crisis headquarters, so I claimed that military matters were responsible for the one in your case... The late colonel, in other crisis headquarters, someone else, and I did not claim that the president of the crisis staff had no authority but had no permanent authority, had someone else. ... [[You don't understand.]] That's different. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And everyone answered the presidents of the crisis headquarters on the line, let's say, Manoli, at the time, yeah. As far as the Capricorns are concerned, the Jarnjak has been questioned as a suspect in going to The Hague. That's a fact. Because when he's invited, there's no replica on the replica, but allow me, I'd do it in the morning like this... The ditch was a suspect, but the Jarnjak proved in his process of proof that it wasn't exactly what they were blaming him for, you understand. [[You don't understand, the speaker is away from the microphone.]] And so it's as if you weren't under the glass of an investigator from The Hague. You were, and there were many others, but there were no charges brought against them, because the charges could have been filed by the crisis headquarters by the end of 2004 and therefore political courage came after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64680	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Vlado Jukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64681	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. After this broad debate, it was difficult to say anything new, but since I am a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and that I am sorry as the only member of the Committee voted against the proposal, that I am going to the Assembly with a proposal to remove the immunity of my colleagues to Glavas, I think this is the place and time to say what my motives for such a procedure were. After all these months of media campaigns and a sort of media link, in some way fellow Glavas, who, of course, we all follow because we're all involved in politics, came up with a proposal and we got a call from the President of the Commission to make a proposal on whether or not to remove his immunity from his colleagues. I was given the opportunity to see that the proposal was submitted by the State's Attorney's Office from Zagreb. Of course, it was unusual for me, given the fact that, by the logic of things, it was supposed to be a proposal from the State's Attorney's Office in Osijek, but after my insistence in several spins, there came an explanation for that fact, and the complete documentation I got on the screen including criminal application and additional documentation. What first offered me, not naturally taking the body in view of this whole public campaign against my colleagues, Glavas, where procedures were announced and the course of the investigation was followed without and from any of the state bodies getting an answer in which the media came up with information on the course and witnesses and everything that was happening. When I read the criminal report then I could actually compare that criminal application, its content with the content of media inscriptions and believe it doesn't make much difference. When it all comes together a little bit, it's just a little different. He's got manual numbers. So, however, the media has been very well all these months informed about the body of the investigation and about the names of the persons, from witnesses, from the circumstances and everything that contains the criminal application. It was one element that gave me arguments for doubt that this was also about the political connotations of the whole case. In a formal procedural sense regarding the work of the Committee in which I... I have enough experience on this committee here in the 3rd term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was evident that the proposal, at least in the first stage, which was sent to us members, had reached the competent authority. Not once, I repeat not once in this commission and by Mr. Sesvečan we have a full correspondence of the commission where not once simply a request for the removal of immunity was returned with, on the grounds that it was submitted by an unauthorized body. Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Mandate Commission must do so and, above all, verify that the request has been made by the competent authority. There was a failure to do so, and in the end there was a dispute of legal nature and of the Commission itself. What is indicative and additional argument to suspect that it is some kind of political action related to the case is the fact that the newspaper announced that this was going to happen, so it doesn't read the dates around the call in relation to, so the material was eventually spreading. We are officially material on Friday about 15 to 4, so before the end of Friday, when the meeting was not held, the material was available to parliamentary representatives who are of course from all over Croatia. Practically, they were able to access the material on Monday. And for days and days, there are details of this material in the media, and there is a question that there is no answer again, where the media can find the content of the acts and the documents that are in some way, we heard it on the commission, the official secret. And no one answered or apparently has any intention of launching a procedure that would determine the responsibility of those who were dealing with the information that way, fueled that one media campaign that is going on, as you can see from today's newspapers, and today. Well, I can now see what's going to happen as an agent. His immunity will be lifted, he will be tried in Zagreb. We have it all in detail. So is it possible that members of the Assembly to whom the material of a certain level of secrecy is delivered can read the same thing in the paper, and that no one is responsible and that no one is even surprised by political or otherwise commenting on it. It is unacceptable and it is another argument that there are some political connotations. When it comes to the State's Attorney's Office, this whole story is, of course, said here several times today that there's a rule in the Parliament that automatically removes immunity when it comes to the request of the State's Attorney's office. There is no such rule, you fellow MPs know it well. If that rule existed, we wouldn't be discussing it, but automation would be passed on. It is a rule as a principled political position perceived in the public and said on the committee in the previous term and at the beginning of this term of office of the board we agreed that we would assume that in one legal and regulated state the proposals coming from the State's attorney will be legal both in procedural and formal terms, and that they will contain everything that must contain the quality proposals of such levels that go to the Parliament. With that assumption, we agreed that we wouldn't cause any trouble if they were asked by the State's Attorney's office. But you can't do this case, and it's obvious that you're going under our principle rule. So that rule that is not written and on which we have neither the possibility nor the right to call upon in relation to the multitude of criminal charges and all that comes to the commission in relation to our fellow MPs. So it was certainly necessary to take particular care, given that this is a political case because we are making a political decision that has far-reaching consequences and a half, personally according to our colleague Glavas, but also some other elements of Croatian politics and Croatian history. Namely, it is a precedent that has not happened in the Croatian Parliament so far and it has been realistic on my part, I believe that you approve of me, as an advocate, that in the proceedings against the parliamentary representative, taking into account all these circumstances, will take due account the strict respect of the procedure. Unfortunately, looking at the submission of proposals, media announcements, as well as the meetings of committees and materials, it was obviously not respected in all these elements of the procedure. And it is not good if we talk about the rule of law, considering the level that it is still the Croatian Parliament. And when such a request is filed against one parliamentary representative for the most serious crime of the war, at least what could be expected and what is our duty as a body to monitor how others work, we ourselves in our house are unable to respect this minimum procedure which is not complicated but nevertheless requires the state's attorney to personally sign a decision to which, of course, explained that decision, which he exempt from the jurisdiction of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek, which, of course, also the county court in the case of a possible court and handed it to the Zagreb County Attorney. If that's offensive to the Osijek judiciary, I think it's also for the citizens of Osijek, but that's something else that we can possibly do another time when we discuss courts. So, a series of elements that have convinced me before the sessions themselves that it's a political context. No, of course, there is a legal context but also a political context. Given the fact that I was and that I was a citizen of Osijek, that I live in Osijek, that I am well directed to the state of defense of the City of Osijek and to the role of Mr. Glavas and by a number of elements mentioned in the criminal application and circumstances, we have, in particular, personal knowledge about the circumstances, of course my knowledge and my thinking cannot be equal to those who read it themselves from the newspapers. And for me, criminal charges are very thin, and I think that's the element that we should think about when we decide such serious things. Unfortunately, politics in this case is simply inevitable. I repeat and repeat for the hundredth time, we have a situation specific to Osijek, we citizens of Osijek. In Croatia there are many Croatian towns and municipalities known from the Homeland War, how this justice was somewhat satisfied. It was also tried by the aggressors, and unfortunately it was tried by many defenders. Looking at the absolute numbers, more cases and convictions were on the side of the defender than on the side of the aggressor, that in itself speaks of us as a society. However, when it comes to Osijek, the situation is particularly specific. There was no such trial in Osijek, but there was no such trial. For dozens of people killed by snipers on the streets by their fellow citizens, no one has taken any special action. Hundreds of criminal charges are at the State's Attorney's Office in 1991 and on the principle of justice, if they are already going to be cleared in the interests of Croatia and the rule of law, all these criminal charges should have been activated and the same hundreds of talks with those who are aggressors and not allowed to act in the judiciary and in the Croatian police in the same city of Osijek and Slavonia and Baranja. Unfortunately, this is the situation we have today, and from this whole hat story today we have the Glavas case, an ugly picture of Osijek that the citizens of Osijek don't deserve. They rightly expect this thing to open up, to get the truth about the Homeland War, but above all, the truth about those who are responsible for the death of more than a thousand citizens, I repeat, because the Law of Forgiveness has been applied to those who have been shot at by soldiers, but it has been put under the rug of those others whom no law on forgiveness has ever been applied and against them has simply not been initiated by either our State Attorney's Office or the police has found to be meaningful and to be entitled to initiate anything and to have any conversations carried out, but these people could have been proudly theoretically involved by Branimir Glavas from those who were aggressors on the other side who have been pardoned and to be tried by a person who has ordered the shelling of Osijek and on the basis of which more than 750 citizens of Osijek themselves have been killed. It is our duty to be true and you must understand the citizens of Osijek, I am sure they will understand this message of Parliament in a way that they should not understand it. Nothing will happen if Branimir Heads... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64682	Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64683	Nothing will happen and there will be time for the State's Attorney's office and these others to process.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64684	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64685	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In 1991, in the summer of '91. I was engaged in the delivery of humanitarian aid for the needs of health care in Licko-Senjska and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, I knew a wide range of people in Europe, I worked on international projects and colleagues from these health institutions often asked me to help them. I must tell you that that year, that year all the doors to Croatia were open. Whatever door I knocked on, I got everything I wanted and as much as I wanted for the needs of Croatian health care. Everything. The drugs, the equipment, the sanity vehicles, everything. And in particular, I was helped by a man, and I then asked a fellow doctor who was a member of the HDZ to ask a colleague of Hebrang who was then a minister that this man's initials HR, from the state, would not be mentioned, is not relevant for this debate and I am somewhere in the second half of '92. He took the man's confession, said the minister welcomed him, said we were grateful. He took me in a closed space so no one could see that I came from Croatia. Until then, it was always public, until then it was always open, until then we were photographed in front of the media, but the information they had then on events in Croatia and events in Bosnia closed all the doors to me and everyone who afterwards tried to get help in those countries by those institutions. Therefore, my colleagues were markedly wrong and I think what was very important at the beginning of this debate was what my colleague Ćosic said, very important. When correcting the false allegations of fellow Cain, he said too much about aggression against the Republic of Croatia. It's true. There was too much silence, that's true, but we have to admit, unlike one part of Mrs. Scare Ozbolt's argument, where she mentioned names, and I absolutely disagree, I agree with her that there may have been too little investigation, that there were too little charges and there was too little trial. We should have washed ourselves from those who sinned, not only then but after the Storm, when the army did its job correctly, freed the field, then gangs came to a place that wasn't guarded and clearly robbed and killed those who stayed in the area. And precisely because we were not aggressive enough, in a positive sense, I mean, in promoting what we really had the right to promote and speak about the truth and defend that truth we unfortunately didn't do much here, and I think we all agree that 7 grand and I think 180 civilians victims have someone who killed them, who sent a grenade, a bullet, who killed them in the most cruel way. Why haven't we done more here? And precisely because we have not done more today about Croatia there are four truths of colleagues and colleagues, four truths and I speak openly about them everywhere. You know, there's a Croatian truth that will say it's '91. There has been an aggression against my country, that 14, 15 thousand people have been killed, that millions of people have been expelled from their homes, that there have been huge material injuries, but unfortunately, Croatian truth has often kept quiet that there have been errors on our part and in '91. and '92. and '95. And because of these individual mistakes, we suffer today. It's Europe '92. Turned her back on that example of my colleagues and colleagues today we still suffer for it, and today the European Union is where it is, the door is still closed, and then our troubles started, and until then Europe has held us in the palm of its hand, respected us, helped us, confessed after a few months of aggression, we became an independent state, we could and should have done much more. I see some people disagree, nod their heads, but that's the problem. The other truth is Serbian truth. They completely forget that there was aggression on our land. No, it all comes down to interpreting individual cases where there have been, there have been absolutely war crimes against Serb civilians in certain areas in the period '91-'95. We cannot deny this, but we cannot bring the truth about Croatia only to these individual cases. Then there is the international truth of colleagues and colleagues. And international truth is very interesting. The international community also very often forgets their mistakes in Vukovar, as well as in many other places, and because of them, wounded people in the hospital died clearly, including a number of mistakes all the way to Srebrenica. The international community very often forgets in its reports to mention these failures by individual international institutions. And finally, colleagues and colleagues there is a whole truth, the whole truth and we in the Croatian Parliament should start talking about the whole truth and when we talk about it openly about all the elements that we have here today, various stories, various ideas etc., etc., only then will we be able to return to that European path of Croatia from '91. the years when Europe respected, helped, respected and recognised us by an independent state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64686	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64687	Your Honor, Mr. President! I'm correcting the inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague that Europe has held us in the palm of our hands. That's incorrect because of the fact that we had an embargo on arms imports. Also, many in Europe today are troubled by the establishment of the Croatian state, and because of this, The Hague tribunal has turned into a political body and gone with such charges of criminal enterprise and everything else. So that's incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64688	And another correction by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64689	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Professor Doric, it is incorrect that there are four truths about the war in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The truth is only one thing and the truth can only be one thing and everything else is the deception and manipulation that the gentleman with the initials you were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64690	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64691	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Well, here today, a lot of people have been talking about taking away our colleague Branimir Glavas' immunity. However, as few as I can tell are those who have tried to at least put themselves in the position of Mr Branimir Glavas, to speak and behave. Then we certainly wouldn't be talking about how he's having problems. They'd know he has a big one problem but it's not just his, it's all of us. Today, many here have said that justice is slow but available. Many have said that it doesn't matter what's been going on for 15 years but that it's better ever than it's ever been. And I'm saying and I'm asking you why today? Why not in a year? So we could say that this case isn't politicized at all. As for The Hague, which is also mentioned here, and the seizure of immunity, and gentlemen, let's remember in 2004, when forces came from The Hague towards Mr. Glavas, and when it was then I remember Mr. Ivo Sanader, the president of the HDZ, said, "The attack on the Glavas is an attack on HDZ and Croatian defenders.". If this were the case in 2004, gentlemen, then surely all HDZ MPs would have come forward for this debate. I'm sad and unhappy that a dozen of them gave up this debate. I am not going into the measure of what is happening in Osijek, I am not going to enter into events and events that are burdening Mr Branimir Glavas, but I am going to speak on this occasion whether Mr Glavas is being taken away from immunity for some perhaps political reasons. In fact, the question of all the questions for me is the answer to whether all this would have happened to Mr. Glavas if he hadn't parted with HDZ a year ago. If Glavas had been that Glavas a year ago, then the Ministry of the Interior wouldn't have been doing what they've been doing in the last few months. So I can conclude that this whole process is politically instructed and that it also has a political background. This whole event is too much for me to know, and we all know that through the media, all Croatian defenders are interested because many of them hold Mr. Glavas as a model Croatian defender, not getting into his personality and not thinking, and in fact, all these defenders are thinking about what they're going to be with them because we all know that almost all Croatian war generals from the Homeland War are being prosecuted or convicted and many of them are still awaiting trial. Believing that this is also about the political background of seizing immunity to Agent Glavas and I, as well as my Club of the Croatian Party, will be against the confiscation of immunity to Agent Glavas because it is a minimum that I can do for a Croatian defender, general, my colleague as a man and as a representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-10-0.u64692	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. You're welcome to vote! ... About what? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, for the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know that very well. I am voting on the proposal for a decision proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The result? With 82 votes for, 1 abstention and 5 against, the proposed decision was taken in line with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. Continuation is tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. Report on the work of the National Committee for 2005. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. It is on the agenda - - The report on the work of the National Committee for 2005 Proposing the Report is the National Committee, the discussion was carried out by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. The President of the National Committee, the representative of the motionor, the respected representative Ivica Racan, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
