ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54202	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Several problems have arisen in the functioning of local self-government, and the most prominent problem is the attempt to call off the council's mandate, which has been elected members of the representative bodies. The Law on election of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government provided for the possibility of termination of office and resignation on the day of the resignation. But the Law also states in Article 3, paragraph 2, that the term of office of a representative body is irrevocable. In practice, several cases have occurred that individual holders of the list were either party or independent from their members to sign advance resignations that were arranged sometimes even at the session itself and at that moment beyond the will of the councilors who had been elected to... in the representative body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By handling the resignations in such circumstances beyond the will of the councilor then expressed at the time of the arrangement, it was a practical denunciation of the mandate, which is contrary to Article 3(2). The law. In order to better regulate the conditions for resigning in order to avoid crowds at the sittings themselves, we suggest that resignations must be submitted to produce the effect no later than 24 hours before the scheduled session is held. Before the scheduled session. But in order to prevent the resignations from being passed by the council members who are circulating, we are opening up the possibility that I am a councilman withdrawing such a resignation as he signed at any time and which he handed over to anyone and then that these binco resignations no longer have an effect. We also cannot give up our resignation as one of the ways in which the term of office ends, as a moral act that the councilor wishes to express his will that he will no longer participate in the work of the representative body, but we would like to settle this issue in order to avoid the possibility of the fact that the mandate or recalling the mandate is contrary to the law. The government does not object to the discussion of the law in two readings because we want to settle this issue precisely and precisely. We will hear good suggestions and good solutions in this debate. We'll take care of everything when we come up with a final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54203	Thank you. The Committee's rapporteurs. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Committee President-in-Office Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54204	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On 25 January 2006, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure as a parent body. In the discussion, the Committee found that the selection of members and the establishment of representative bodies in 2005 was carried out in accordance with the applicable laws in most units of local and regional self-government. However, the situation in certain units of local self-government has led to difficulties in the behaviour of a councilman's councilman's eternal mandate. In the debate, the Committee supported the bill to prevent the abuse of the will of members of the representative bodies of local and regional self-government units. In this connection, the Committee stressed that the law should develop the constitutional principle of non-binding mandate. The Committee also found that the resignation of a member of the presidential body is a personal act, so that the law should specify the conditions and deadlines for its submission. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that adopted the proposal for this law in the first reading, and that all remarks and proposals made in the debate be forwarded to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54205	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Oh, no? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54206	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We were already in the last session of the Parliament discussing a topic that actually encroachs on this matter of interpretation and we had a very heated discussion about all the phenomena that occurred in the last local elections. This law probably came about as a consequence and these phenomena that were, in fact, everything that we discussed and discussed here. In any case, there is no doubt that certain problems have arisen in the last local elections, and this is very well known to the public in which environments and I must say that we are very sorry that the entire local self-government is now looking through the prism of these incident situations that were unknown to Gorica, Dubrovnik, Pozega and it is actually one false image of the functioning of local self-government. When I watched a larger show “Open” where local self - administration was said to have come to the lowest possible branches. I don't think that's correct information to all those counties, according to all those municipalities and all those cities that operate in accordance with the law in which representative bodies are actually established in accordance with the law and which meet all their legal obligations. These are the situations that have occurred, which are actually in the process of resolving and in the end in the last debate we focused as one of the really controversial issues and the bianco resignations, and the resignations that the council members gave. Whether or not they gave them away is now controversial and procedures are being conducted. I have to say that I fully understand the party that tried to protect itself with such an institute, but I would say protect the public and protect all of us from what is happening now. Indeed, it is not correct if someone is on the list of one political party, and after a month, I don't know, they change their mind and now they move on to another group, create another coalition, and in fact, if it was done naturally on the condition of some immoral and unholy reasons. That is what we, as the Croatian Democratic Community Club, strongly condemn and indeed do not agree. However, the Bianco Resign Institute simply does not comply with the law and simply cannot function under the legal rules that we have. Bianca's resignation as such that a man gives it to a party that's impossible. The resignation is a personal act. She can't be given in advance. She can't possibly be given to a stranger. It is given to the representative during and the reasons we cannot predict when we have already entered the elections and now we are giving, that we will be agreed to resign instead of us. It's just a useless act. Because both the Law in local self-government and the Law on Elections for Local Self-Government Representatives has made it clear that the mandates are not binding. Non-binding mandates, as we know, are the basis of a democratic arrangement, and what happened is incidents, and I think they will lead to the fact that the political parties that may have been most affected by the next elections will take a very good look at which people represent their list. It will be one of the really important elements on those lists to come moral, honorable, honest, and honest people who will not do such things. Of course, the problems were not in those areas where the parties received a certain convincing majority. There was no problem in creating power, acting or where a solid coalition was created, a convincing coalition, but the problem was where it was actually about one or two who mainly brought power to one group or another group. Now, that's where people came out for these reasons, for those reasons. Of course, the public immediately created this story, shopping, parties buying, and I think and I don't think any of the parties buy anyone. I think it's about dishonest, dishonest people who actually went from some personal interest to here or there. And that's why we think that this resignation institute is good for the government to regulate it, to especially explain it, and to particularly underline it that in the next election, something like that doesn't happen, and in the end that things like that and pro futuro in this term are going to happen because we know that local self-government is going to last for three and a half years to come. So by regulating the resignation institute, we actually have to influence that these things don't happen to us. Because I have to say that really after those security photos, after all those shows on TV where you don't actually hear who's talking, they get into each other's words. It was really hard to watch. That is why we, as the HDZ Club, welcome this proposal of the Government, welcome the efforts that the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law provides for and regulates the institute of resignations, so that it is clear, that it is indisputable and only we are glad that it is in two readings, that it will be in regular procedure, that it is not an emergency procedure, because I think it is in everyone's best interests here and that we all together have to make one correct law to make it clear to everyone how this resignation will work. Of course, we'll all have our own suggestions on how to fix it, we'll all have our own comments, and by the second reading, I think it's possible to find one solution that all the parties who are here in the House will be satisfied with to find the best solution. As regards what the government has proposed, we as a Club of the Croatian Democratic Community propose that a second reading be discussed and discussed not only as proposed in this proposal, but also to discuss the possibility of resigning in the form of a written act certified by the public notary. We also suggest that discussion and the possibility of resigning on the record, either by the president of the representative body, or by the chairman of the Mandate Committee. I also think that these are things that are useful and that might be good to regulate in this way. In addition, what we propose to the Government to discuss and the possibility provided for in this one sentence, which is the withdrawal of resignation. I think that there should be a very good discussion of such an option, you know, because one is the resignation when it is given by an official who has been elected by a body, and it is submitted to that body, and the other is the possibility of the resignation of MPs and councilors elected in the direct elections, and in principle the difference between these two acts should be seen. In that first act when the resignation is given by the official, the decision of the body to which he gives it is constitutional. In this case, the acceptance of that body creates the fact that the mandate is terminated. And here, when the councilman resigns, in fact, the representative body only declares, it only determines the fact that he resigned and, as we can see by the current legal discrepancy of that resignation at the moment when he was handed over, the legal effect ends. So I think that, until the second reading, we should discuss whether we should at all leave the possibility for that resignation to be withdrawn and, of course, to discuss this with the question of the possibility of resignation with the notary or to be given on the record by the president of the representative body or by the chairman of the board of directors. In any case, we think that this law, which is proposed, is one decent foundation on which good legal solutions can be found until the second reading, and I think it's all in the common interest to prevent all these phenomena actually which I have to say are actually going to harm all parties here not just any of us, but also politicians as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54207	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54208	Thank you. He says a colleague can't resign because it's the opposite of the law, the existing law. I may even agree in my opinion with my colleague, but he simply, as I do in that opinion, is objectively disabling and defusing my colleague Palaric, who neatly serves the government on this matter, and then claims exactly the opposite, of course, depending on where, when and whose account. I'm just stating examples and decisions about Vodice, about Dubrovnik County, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54209	We said, we made a deal, and we agreed that it would be a correction. ... A comment. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then correct the allegations of the secretary himself, but not the president of the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Club of HSLS DC and LS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54210	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I see this jam just as a confirmation of one fact that after these local elections, all the masks really fell. It is not the first time that masks fall, they fall after 93 and 97 and 2001, but it is obvious that in 2005, we really went too far. We are actually witnessing that our city councilmen, the county councils are marching security democracy. I must admit that this is a very interesting contribution to ensuring order, peace in these sacred places of our parliamentaryism, and when I say lately that our parliamentaryism is in crisis, it shows that this is really happening at all levels. ... Yeah, maybe you seem to be able to do that... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But respected colleagues and colleagues are indeed a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We wouldn't even have this law here today, or a bill of this law if that weren't the case. With us there is almost one pair of sciences how to get ahead of time with certain solutions, in advance. You see, we haven't even applied this law on direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors yet, but here we've had a chance to listen that it won't work. It works in Germany, it works in Slovenia, it works elsewhere, but we know in advance that it will not work. ... I also deeply believe he will. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I was one of the few people who stood up for something like that in 2001, unfortunately it didn't go through then, and I'm still not going to get into the motives why it didn't, but it seems to me that there's the only criterion here that there's no criteria. It's very interesting how selective we are and how often we won't actually see our own mistakes and actually our own contribution to this condition that we now have, and then it's called political principle. Unfortunately, political forgetfulness, this category is dominant in our political life, and then we will really just choose Sisak, and we will forget about Gorica, so we will remember Dubrovnik-Neretva County but then we will skip Požek and so from case to case. And indeed our parliamentary life at this local level is in great crisis. And now we've come out with this law to try to change it. Now the question is whether these changes will remove the possibility of so-called. trading mandates, I think the answer is no. I'm afraid these changes can't and that's not what they're after. The problem of trading with mandates is largely stemming from an inappropriate electoral system chosen to elect members of city, municipal councils and county assemblies. The change in the electoral system itself could be repeated, but only to a certain extent to alleviate this problem but I am afraid that no electoral system is able to solve it entirely. In fact, a free mandate is a civilization achievement which in itself is not and must not be questionable because it is derived from the theory of indivisibility... sovereignty. [[You don't understand.]] He always leaves freedom to the one who has been chosen to be independent in his actions, to mean in the debates, to take positions and to vote in the representative body and to be unrelated to the views of the voters who chose them. Just to remind you, although some have forgotten this, that in April 2001 the Constitutional Court decided to abolish certain provisions of the Constitution of the Human Rights Act of 91, which allowed the denunciation of representatives of the national minority. Although our Constitution does not say that the mandates of members of local and representative bodies are free, it only speaks for our mandates, it is impenetrable, it would be against the spirit of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia in any way a free term of members of local representative bodies to question. Therefore, out of the freedom, independence and non-binding of the elected member of the representative body, the opinion and views of its voters are unfortunately the possibility for the elected member to vote in the representative body against the political views of the political option from which the lists are selected. And thus continuously ensures most of the opposed political option in the representative body. The formal transition to another political option is only the other side of the same story and we have it very, very, that is, what is happening to us all the time. The motives for this transition are unfortunately not political. Most often behind them is a tangible material interest, a material motive. And last time we talked about interpelation, I said that the transfer itself is not so dangerous but that it is actually dangerous for those who in some way ensure that it happens and who then become mayors, mayors, captains in the shadows. And that is what currently dominates the political life of Croatia. I'm saying, that problem can't even be solved by moving to a direct selection of mayors, municipal mayors and mayors. And I believe very deeply, I believe that the field, however, is going to be this... Slow down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's pretty much everything that's really come about because it's the first name that needs to be provided. We must create a relationship between the so-elected mayor, the mayor and the mayor with the representative body. That's the problem we have to solve, but I'm saying, that doesn't mean we're going to solve these transfers ourselves. In our opinion from the club, it is to the most extent an external problem which is mostly related to the state of political consciousness and professional ethics of the person selected in representative bodies. The proposal for a law that is before us is not unfortunately aimed at solving this extremely difficult problem in the political life of Croatia. it deals with only one small derivative of the problem that has arisen only in mutual relations between the elected member of the representative body and the political party, i.e. the coalition from whose list a member has been elected. Practice has shown that a political party or coalition as a list promoter is trying in every possible and impossible way to find an effective mechanism to discipline the elected member and tie him to it by the end of the term of office. One such pair of attempts are those Bianca resignations in the position of members of the representative body. The elected members of individual political parties agreed to sign before the elections were even held, so before they were elected members of the representative bodies and the Bianca resignations. Some political parties subsequently activated them, mostly without consent or even without the knowledge of the councilors themselves. I have to admit that, and I really don't know how much law that can be, and I'm talking about those moral and other implications,... Talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal of this Law is actually trying to solve this small segment of the problem. He is trying to resign, indeed, to do what he is, unilaterally expressed by the legal will of a person, so that the future does not act as the elected member of the representative body. ... from that aspect the purpose of this law is absolutely legitimate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now the question remains whether the best way to prevent the deformation of the resignation institute in practice is proposed. That is, to ensure that the resignation remains what it should be. A unilaterally willing act... A councilman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We unfortunately feel from the club that the answer to this question is negative. In order to preserve the value of the resignation on the one hand, we are in our legal order introducing a solution which, on the other hand, derogates the very essence of those same resignations. I don't know if there is a country in the world that in its law predicted the possibility of withdrawing its resignation in the way it was proposed by this law. What exactly are we doing? With this regulation, we recognize the possibilities of manipulation by the written resignation, and to prevent this already done manipulation, we open up the possibility that the person to whom the resignation refers may not have signed it, or signed it. That's not a good solution. The law is there to prescribe assumptions to prevent the possibility of manipulation, not to prescribe measures to remove already done manipulation. That's the point of the problem. Such an approach cannot be and is not acceptable in the liberal democratic electoral systems. And now the question is, what do we do? In our opinion, the club needs to change its approach, the problem needs to be solved by formulating assumptions that will prevent the possibility of manipulation by the councilman's resignation. Now, how can you do that? In our opinion, the Law should set out precisely the assumptions under which resignation is considered valid and that the resignation itself remains irrevocable because it is its essence and its war. In particular, the law should prescribe the necessary components of the resignation and the procedure for its surrender. What does that mean? That resignation must be written by hand. That it must specify exactly the period during which the person acted as councilman until the day of his resignation. It can be one year, 3 months, and 20 days because that way, if written in government terms, the councilman proves that the resignation was written today, not 3 or more months ago. Or a year. Furthermore, it must contain the reasons why the councilman resigns on public duty. The term of office is not a private-law matter. In our daily political talks, it is said, the mandate belongs to the councilman. If you go, the mandate is free, so it can be understood, but it's not a private-legal matter. Therefore, the obligation to state the reason for the resignation cannot be considered to be any restriction on the right of the person elected to be in office. He was directly elected to the term of office of 4 years and the public has the right to know why someone has given up their duty to represent and represent citizens before the time. I can say, let's say I found an example in England where representatives in the House of Commons were technically forbidden to resign. Because since 1623, the rule has been in force, you see how long democracy has been, that members of Parliament have been entrusted with the public's duty to represent their electoral units, and they do not have the authority to give up their mandate voluntarily. Even though the English have somehow avoided this solution. They're creating, they're reaching for a solution called legal fiction. Because they say if a person is appointed to specific paid duties under the auspices of the crown then that fact disqualifies him to be a member of Parliament. So we would have to have, in some ways, the same thing to do with these elements, and not that we really have that tension about resignation, whether it's given or not, it's not given. Is it signed, not signed, who activated it and how it was activated? And it's interesting that the same thing, that this mechanism is used by parties whose members become mayors, and the same way in which they are, that some party applies and call off, say, in Osijek, that the party... they call off their members in the same manner that they call off theirs, they would never become it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying, otherwise it's called consistency and political principle. It's worth it, I don't know it's worth it in Pozega, but in Osijek... can't be worth it because it would normally lead to different relationships in the city council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, it should be prescribed that the resignation be handed over personally to the representative body president and that the resignation of an official in the jurisdiction of at least the least part of the councilman who resigns and the president of the representative body. Third only exceptional if there is an objective inability to hand over a personal resignation may, under the same procedure, be handed over by the authority of the person who resigns for which the action must nevertheless have its special power of attorney. Finally, at the first next meeting of the Council, i.e. the Assembly of the Presidents of the Council, it is required to inform the members of the presidential body that the councilor has resigned with the day and therefore for these and those reasons, and to call on the political party here and there, or to act in accordance with Article 8 of the Law and to appoint a new member by the next session. We think in our club it's less evil that one session of the representative's body is held with a councilman less than that of this and this situation that we are now going to and into which we are putting really chaos and that really creates a bad picture of a political situation and an opportunity on our political scene and relations between the parties than this is our solution and we're going to say right now we're going to wait for another reading. We think that what we have said about how important this is that we must not recognise the possibility of manipulation but that we should do all of you to write down assumptions to prevent the very creation of manipulation, that it will then be the motive that will make us members of the HSLS, DC and LS, or to convince whether or not we should know from this Law and I think that other reading, Mr. Secretary of State, that you have enough time and that these remarks are truly benign and indeed written on the trail and significantly improve the text of your amendment and addition of this Act. I say addiction to that and then we'll know how to set ourselves up, and in good faith that by this example of us here, we actually need to change this picture, this perception of politicians, about our parliamentary lives, and that we really need to say no to this security democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54211	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54212	Thank you. According to counterpart Kramaric, it is incorrect that everything that has happened is the result of an inappropriate electoral system. Please, elections were made almost by the same provisions of the 2001 law, local elections, and did that happen then? It's not. There wasn't a situation like this. Why? Because then objectively the basis of the Control Act was discussed, the legality of certain illegalities in certain units of local self-government regardless of whether they are compatible with central government. But then it was during the coalition government. So we have a problem with controlling the controller.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54213	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54214	I am correcting the inaccuracies of colleagues Kramaric who say that the crossings from one side to the other are motivated solely by material reasons. Just listening to counterpart Kramaric, he is convinced that his transition from the opposition on which he received his entry to the Parliament, his transition to the ruling majority is motivated solely by moral and political, not material reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54215	It's a deadline for me. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54216	Mr. President. I am also correcting the quote of counterpart Kramaric where he said that problems in practice and trading mandates arise as a consequence of a poor electoral system. It does not stand because there is no electoral system that will prevent someone selected from changing their party uniform. The problem is in irresponsibility and dishonesty, possibly individual immorality and can only be solved by voters in the next elections, and unlike counterpart Anticevic and 2001, there was that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54217	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54218	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague that the law requires that the resignation be given in person. It's both against the constitutional and constraint of the right of the councilman how will they act, what about he's sick so he can't give himself up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54219	And it was better for the state's attorney to see it. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54220	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The HSP club will not support this Act for the simple reason that it does not solve anything important. Nothing important is solved by this Law, a false impression is created that it will prevent the trade of mandates and the like and all of these situations that we have in Croatia not only now but since '92. to this day. I mean, this is just tossing dust in the eyes of the public how something's gonna work out. That it is so enough to look at the text of the law and enough to see that the most bothering Croatian public and Croatian people is how to prevent trade in terms of mandates? This Law does not solve much in this work how to prevent trade in mandates, how to prevent the exercise of the will of the electoral body, and how until we learn to regulate democracy relations that this sort of thing comes down to a variety of minimum so that it doesn't happen anymore because everything that's been going on since '92. To this day he's saying, first of all, our regulations are flawed, so legal regulations are flawed and legal regulations, or we didn't want to, or we didn't know how to regulate all these things that were happening, and they've been going on since '92. to this day, and it is obviously necessary and necessary until the level of democracy reaches that level that such things will no longer happen. Let's just say for a little bit about these provisions. It is said "if he resigns at the time of receipt of a written resignation which must not be later than 24 hours before holding a session of the presidential body". So he can handle it in the mail recommended. So how's he gonna handle it? So it's possible to submit it in the mail recommended, right? It is now known that it is submitted to the regulations when it is delivered to the post office. And then what are you going to do? It's possible, for example, that someone will change their will four or five times. So when he says I quit, then he says I'm resigning. Well, then he says I quit again, and then I resign. It also means it's not legal. We agree with everyone that the mandate belongs to the councilman. Then his right to react cannot be limited, whether he will resign, at what time, at which time. If the term of office belongs to a councilman and belongs to a councilman, he may also resign at the session of the presidential body because it is his right. He has the right to distribute with his mandate. It is now questionable how much the councilman's mandate, his term of office because of our electoral legislation, because we ourselves know that the ballot mentions the local elections only first on the list, bearer of the list and party. And everyone else is lined up means and, or not, on the ballot, there's a list there that the parties handed over. Therefore, we from the Croatian Party are right to be told to re-election in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, let again and in Požega, be back in Velika Gorica. So we're not touched by anything, so you wouldn't think that we're speculating right now. In our case, every councilman voluntarily resigned and that resignation was realised. In all cases, there was no coercion, but we prevented the trading of council mandates because the councilman resigned himself. We know all the speculation in the media. Therefore, legally speaking, if the regulations are flawed then it is allowed to apply other legal institutes and these legal institutes have been applied, there has been no coercion, everything has been voluntary. Anyone who resigned signed that resignation, the resignation was arranged and everything else. No one told him to call off his resignation and everything. If something is considered wrong, let the competent authorities tell the court. We have seen the Constitutional Court's decision that the conditions are not yet met and that doesn't go into that part of whether or not this legal institute is against it. He's not against it because that's the right thing to do. If you do not have a solution to the basic legal regulations, then you are allowed to apply other legal institutes of civil law or whatever circumstances you are dealing with. But if we really want to move into all this situation, we have to go to one whole new law. Just remember what it's like, even though I have to tell you right now what was wrong in public. The Constitution speaks only of the mandates of parliamentary deputies. The constitution does not speak of these mandates but it is normal and logical to legally go to the same legal variant. That is why it is public opinion that the Constitution regulates this right to have the mandate belong to a councilman or not binding. No, the Constitution only speaks for MPs. We know for ourselves what the situation was and not only at the level of local authorities or here within the Croatian Parliament. We heard, Mr. Vidovic said an example for Mr. Kramarić who was true on the list of SDP and LS joint and as such entered the Croatian Parliament today and 11 will be in HSLS because he is now on one path. Therefore, it may also need to be regulated by such laws. The same situation was the same as Libr. Libra went the same way in the coalition with the SDP. In the end, she moved to HNS. In the last session of the Parliament, we had a variant that HSLS had disintegrated in two parts. One part went into opposition, it was created by Libra. So if we want to solve all relationships, let's go clean up in this house first. Let's clean up first in this house and normally regulate that principle at all levels. We are also ready for agreements that we will all adhere to, so agreements, let's make before the election all the agreements that we will all prevent from trading in terms of mandates, that we will take action. Let's get all that stuff sorted out. 'Cause look, it's not the same situation if the councilman means for trade, because the money he gets changes sides or the same thing with the second situation when he's really coming, he doesn't agree with his party's views. These are two completely different legal issues and moral and any other. Therefore, if we go, then we can resolve the issue for the Croatian Parliament, for the MPs, in an appropriate way we apply the institute to both the cities and the municipalities and the counties. You have, for example, a situation in the Bjelovar-Bilogor County where they are in power at the same time without a coalition agreement and HSS and HDS, both SDP and HNS. HSP is not and is not HSLS. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They're all, there's none. And now, the question is, who did the voters vote for? Did they vote for some socialist alliance they voted for? And now, is that the principle of twisting the voter's will? So let's be realistic about all the situations that are happening. But if we want to solve the starting point of the Croatian Parliament, let's give an example, legally solve all these relationships if necessary, as the prime minister said we agree and agree but let's stick to it, let's not be that self-government agreement or social agreement, but rather the moral code of relations and behaviour so as not to play the voter's will. And let's take that model to lower levels and then it'll probably be more trust for the voters in us politicians, and then we'll return and confidence and we won't be able to get into a situation like this with different situations of voter will play out. Therefore, this is the way to return democracy to Croatia and this is the way to prevent all trade and all that is inadmissible and moral, both human and legal and constitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54221	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54222	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Kovacevic, said that this law does not solve anything. This makes it partly difficult to move the councilman. And that's certainly true. However, of course, it is safe and what is only right is when we here are sure that we want to have a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors and MPs, too, then we will first get citizens' trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54223	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54224	Thank you, Mr. President. It's hard to correct a principled colleague, Kovacevic, but he's just...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54225	You can correct the principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54226	Yeah, well, hard, so I say no, principledness at all as an institute that is unique to him, but it was he who showed that why we listed all the elements of the resignation that must be contained and how it must be tolerated. That's exactly the way to get this schlamper that he's trying to introduce and which, and that's where he repeated it a couple of times again, actually to get that cream opera to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54227	Now you've commented on the assessment I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I don't know, [[It's hard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54228	The whole quote is creamy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54229	Yeah. And respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54230	Kola Kovacevic incorrectly cited "we have prevented trade in mandates" and then cited several places because the exact assumption would be that we have done trade with the mandates of the centuries-olds in the town of Sisak. A team more because HSP parliamentary representative Pejo Trčević, whose last name is also markedly publicly boasts that they have managed to make the purchase
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54231	A colleague is not a correction to an incorrect quote again.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54232	Well, it's incorrect that they stopped it. It is incorrect, it is incorrect, and in the end Kovacevic says, "This is the way to restore democracy" imagine "in Croatia, to restore moral policy". That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54233	That's not an correction to an incorrect quote, so please give it to me. Yeah? [[Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54234	I'm asking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, an esteemed colleague violated Article 209 in relation to Article 214. I ask you to give him a warning because he insulted MP Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54235	You see, you treat, you accentuate, you emphasize the name of a representative. You're alluding to his, to some of his qualities. It's on the border. Be a little self-abstained. Well, you'll all turn up. SHE used to write records, and eventually she wrote, "I voluntarily gave this confession. I'm not beaten or beaten." ... With your hand yes, it's in writing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54236	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sure that counterpart Kovacevic accidentally wrongly levelled the formation of coalitions that we can ban, but so far are not prohibited. Therefore coalitions, forming coalitions post-election and pre-election one thing, unifying parties which is also another thing and trade in individual mandates and individual...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54237	Are you there now, what's a replacement?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54238	What? No, I don't. That's the wrong equalization of three different things. And it could be a completely wrong impression that by equating these three things, what wrong fellow Kovacevic wanted to cloud the water so as not to see what the problem is? And the problem is the unequal criteria regarding the state's position on the one hand and trade in individual mandates. When we get to the coalition, we'll talk about it right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54239	Madam Vice President, you were correcting an incorrect impression. You've speculated on some concepts. ... What do you mean? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, the fact that the correction of the incorrect assumption is the correction of the incorrect claim, in fact, Factial claims. [[Intruder: Mr. President, I have cited what is the reason for the correction]] You weren't correcting an incorrect quote. You know perfectly, very well what valuable courts are, factual claims, states. What are we going to have to do with the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54240	Mr. President, you said so I'm giving up... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54241	And the esteemed vice president had a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what I really wanted to warn you, even though I admit that we need to give a lecture sometime, that this was a lecture, but I understand my colleague Pusic. I assume my colleague Kovacevic has brought a bit of an awkward situation. Indeed, they entered our county on a list, and then announced that they were entering power, signed an agreement, and that is probably an explanation for the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54243	There it is now. You're right. That's right, Mršić. It's not really, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... You didn't get a warning, you were just, you were just asked and you were warned only, asked and warned. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't give you any warning. I just warned you. It's not a warning. That's the difference. That's a terrible difference. It's a warning, it's a heavy sanction. A warning that's such a likable mild reproof. SDP club respected Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54244	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In some cases, it has been more and more common for us to take an act of law as a reason for amending the law rather than ask ourselves why we do not ensure the implementation and application of the law. So it seems to me that even in this segment is actually happening the same thing. I would like to remind you that the Constitution in Article 74 explicitly states that MPs have no impeachment. It should also be said that in Article 2(2). The law on the election of MPs says "The mandate of MPs is not binding. They are not called back." That the Law on Elections for Representatives in Local Self-Government Authorities in Article 3, paragraph 2 explicitly states that they have not been recalled. We should also remind ourselves of something far more important that we do not even discuss with us in the Constitution in Article 1 it is said that in the Republic of Croatia the government belongs to the people and comes from the people as a community of free, equal citizens. That the people exercise power by selecting their representatives and making direct decisions. It is then prescribed in Article 132 that the right to local self-government belongs to citizens and that citizens exercise the right to self-government through elected representatives. Now the question arises when the councilman's transition to trading terms, a few dimensions about this. One of these questions is the question of the termination of the term of office, which I will also say a few words on behalf of our club. The first question is, what happens when such a transition is made from one side to the other, to practically change the will of the electoral authority or to change this right of citizens to local self-government that they exercise the right to self-government through their elected representatives because they have changed the established authority or the will that the electorate has given. We have no legal solution at all, and it is probably time to discuss the possibility, that if such a situation occurs, such a representative body should then be disbanded and call extraordinary elections and return the right to citizens to choose their representatives in a manner prescribed by the law and thus ensure that we have the right to local self-government. The second question that is certainly important in this regard is, in fact, the question in which it can end the mandate. Of course the mandate can stop between the rest and the resignation, but we would like to remind me that the new philosophy offered is too high. The existing laws have regulated the issue, among other things, in Article 10. The law on elections for the Croatian Parliament, MPs for the Croatian Parliament, is said to end the term of office in addition to the other MP if he resigns. The situation is similar in Article 7. Law on elections for representative bodies of local self-government units, where besides their reasons, it is said if they resign. Therefore, it is a personal act, resulting in itself as well as other philosophies of the Constitution and the law that the mandate is free, that it stems from the national, or civil sovereignty that has accepted our Constitution as a mixture of national and civil sovereignty and other things that are very important that it belongs during the term of the term of office of the councilor or representative and that it can be distributed with him by a personal councilman or representative. The party of course can do so by his authority on his behalf when he personally... but otherwise, it could not seem to be what we had as a practice so far, and in such a situation it is quite clear that we represent the position, to put it simply, I am no longer talking about sovereignty, that the term of office belongs to a councilor or representative, and that in no version of this mandate can it cease without the personal act of that representative, or that councilman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to say that in our practice, a few things have happened especially in the last two years that have actually encouraged people, councilmen, holders of mandates to bypass the law, so if you want to play the law itself a little bit. I would just remind myself of the fact that we have the Law on the financing of political parties that we in the Assembly interpreted in a way that this could be extended and that individuals, and not only on breaks, which practically stimulated a number of MPs to declare themselves independent and to get funds for their personal work, not for party work. Such a position was taken by the Assembly, but such a precedent certainly affected both the position and the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who also began to take care of it and, of course, sought as representatives, as councilors to take it as such, the same opportunity to achieve their own particular or individual interests in relation to those who gave them confidence in the mandate, so voters or their parties who put them as candidates when running for the lists. Another problem that has also significantly stimulated certain behaviours is the fact that we wanted it or did not want from the case Osijek, Požega, Dubrovnik, I do not know Drenovci, that I do not list many other municipalities and places Labin etc. We have copper if you want. There could be a lot of other places like that. You have one situation that is incredible, where one move is withdrawn, other councilors or parliamentary parties are trying to challenge such a right with the aim of protecting their electoral right, without our Central Office of the State Administration actually issuing an act on which to conduct a dispute for the protection of rights, but to give an opinion. This opinion, of course, legalises and gives legitimacy to the emerging situation in favour of the changed authority if it is in his opinion, that is, in the view of that office to a particular political situation, which in fact replaces the principle of legality and constitutionality with the principle of political opportunity which has led to major, extremely difficult consequences for the rule of law in this segment. Because of course, if he could not start the protection of his electoral right, including before the Administrative Court, that a reciprocal legal path might later appeal before the Constitutional Court. What happened is a known case, a Dubrovnik case where the Constitutional Court took its stand again on the principle of political opportunity, although under the Constitution, it is necessary to protect the electoral right that it is not competent. And now the turn that's happening today at the Parliament's session. The head of the State Administration's Office says this is how it happened beyond the council's will to resign, thus suspending the councilman's term of office, contrary to Article 3 paragraph 2 of the Law. For God's sake, but what about all these authorities that have been working for months. I again raise the question from Osijek via Požega, Vukovar, pardon Drenovac, Dubrovnik, etc. etc., where there has been a change of government in this way. What's gonna happen? Well, the only thing that we at the SDP Representatives' Club think would be right because of this fact that law and legality should be brought to trial before the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ask that these councils be released and that these bodies, representative bodies, not only speak about councils, because it is not just municipal, city councils, but also the county councils, and that extraordinary elections are discussed and that the right of the electoral body, i.e. citizens to choose the representative body as they wish. As far as I've heard from some clubs' previous presentations, other clubs also believe it would be the most moral, the most legal, and the most honest in the far line to make such a fact and move like this. I also need to resolve one more question on behalf of our club. It is a question of awakening these appetites because even these opinions or failures of an appropriate administrative act that could have led the solution in fact woke up the appetites of individuals that nothing will happen if they take such a move, and at the same time it can happen and now the additional political issue that is not only a matter of morality, which is not a question of our practice but a question of non-relations that prevail with us and which are seriously worrying. So if there were only one case, it would be serious because it is precedent, and let alone if it appears in several cases in the units of local and regional self-government, which is the question that we are actually speaking publicly, and we are aware that one form of corrupt approach is being made to the individual holder of the council's mandate or in a way that offers money like we could read in the daily press, it has been offered so much that you do not know any money but several hundreds of thousands of euros that are, these are huge money for our opportunities to offer certain privileges with a better place of work, resolving the housing issue to the question that even the methods that can be considered blackmail, pressure and if you want intimidation or individuals or entire families to actually resolve the issue in a way that the government at any cost that should allow the legitimacy and legality of action of a certain political option. Now let's be realistic, is this a political option? And if we are reading our parties' programmes then we will see that it is not about any political options of these parties but rather about groupal options and if you want the particular interests of the bearer of power in certain segments of the social organisation that at any cost wants to win power as power to achieve for themselves and a belonging group of certain benefits, often and contrary to the political interests of its own party, so if you want to and beyond. And I think this issue should be resolved in the interest of all of us, not this party or that party. You see, such appetites, unfortunately, must be punished, and I don't think that by amending and supplementing this law, we're going to be able to just solve it. Then it must also be resolved by political work, a number of other issues must be addressed, as well as by amending and supplementing other regulations. The other question must also be asked, if there is a purchase, it is understood that there is a seller and there is a buyer. Who's the buyer? It is obvious that they are a customer or someone who performs on behalf of a party or party in a particular form of political organisation. In such a situation, we are certainly returning the issue of the transparency of political parties' work and the issue of political parties' responsibilities. We at the club are convinced if today-to-morrow we bring amendments and additions to the Law on Political Parties in a way that the political party punishes itself by a serious monetary amount or even by banning participation in some of the election cycles because it buys councilors or MPs and hence leads to a change in the will of the electoral body, so the will of the bearer of sovereignty is then we are convinced that already some things will be set in relation to and the behaviour of political parties not from the point of view of whether they are doing so but from the point of view that they control that they do not do so on their behalf but actually for their own benefit on the ground. When I say theirs, then I mean lower forms of organization on one side. On the other hand, a question of responsibility must be raised for this kind of political corruption that must be borne by an individual who has agreed to participate in his purchase of his conviction and his commitment, in particular by that trust he has received from the electoral body. He must be in a position to be punished, and even in this segment, I would not rule out a prison sentence, since it is actually criminal acts against electoral law. We in the SDP believe that we definitely need to clear up with these things and that the principle of political opportunity must be replaced by the principle of constitutionality and legality, because this form of behavior that we have so far started to behave with our mandaters, bearers of mandate as if they were on the estradi or as if football stars are forgetting the second dimension of these stars. When they sign a contract and receive trust and fulfill that contract, otherwise they must bear sanctions, and we do not have any sanctions here except that they are actually trying to harm the electoral body and to harm the development of democracy and the constitutional order and rule of law in this country, individuals must achieve groups of benefits for themselves or for a corresponding group that harms all of us and in such a situation, we of the SDP club believe that this solution is not sufficient and that this law should be extended to another reading in this segment which should be regulated, but also that the issue of amending electoral legislation and amending the Law on Political Parties should be resolved at least, and then, in the next criminal reform, an additional issue of reformation, i.e. amendments to the amendments to criminal law relating to criminal acts against electoral law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54245	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54246	Thank you, Mr. President. I would have just incorrectly quoted fellow Arlovic as saying that only this assembly of Parliament came up with this brilliant idea that not only parties are being financed but independent individuals as well. I would just remind him that, unfortunately, it was already happening in the previous assembly session when the EIB was funded which did not participate in the elections, and I think it would be a good answer and fellow Vidovic that I believe deeply that political and moral principles were behind it. Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54247	No, it was oak. It was a oak tree.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54248	And oak if the party would be financed under the Political Party Act, not just Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54249	Or grab, something was, yeah. At 11.58, it was time to apply for an individual debate on this agenda point. How much do we have? We have 30 individuals. We're gonna have to hurry up a little bit to get there by 3:00 when the vote's over. Hurry up a little bit, it'll hurry up. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54250	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, the Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I will also agree with all those who say that what happens on the political stage when it comes to trading mandates is simply embarrassing, even dare say that it is not a problem when, for example, someone leaves a political option for one or another, but when that escape under the lap of another political option from power means destroying that first option, its own option, the original option. So there's no problem, go get a mandate, but don't destroy the established structure of the government with your escape. Clearly, that escape or that escape is everywhere in the world. It was in Austria, Germany, Italy, even in America when senators from one camp move to the other camp, but probably nowhere does it do it as rawly as it does in Croatia. This transition can also be about money which is extremely amoral while on the other hand, the transition because of ideology, come on, I could still understand it. For example, when the party’s leadership for the sake of selfish interests leaves some principles even though there is always a question of who it is that should be blackmailed, which is the original policy, whether it is an individual or a body. Another thing that might be even more embarrassing than when someone's outright selling themselves like, say, on the Ponteross. It's when disrespecting the results of the election by the amoral, unnatural coalitions wants power at all costs. And there's Mr. Kovacevic right when he says no one in this country is more than innocent. Well then we have a red-and-black HDZ coalition, a SDP in Labin, Brač,... , IDS, HDZ in Caroby, HSP with everyone, with everyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess because of this right-wing image to the fact that the result of the election is not respected, the results of the election must be willful or are the will of the citizens. If we don't respect the result of the election then we forge these post-election engineering results ourselves. It is clear that, let's say, when someone gets 45% of the votes as in Labin they get Tulio Demetlinka from IDS that these elections are personalized. And that 45% of those votes express or should express the will of citizens who have been hit by an unnatural coalition. Until today, in the voice of Istria, Mr. Hrvatin said that the fact is that our headship is not yet complete, as is the fact that we manage the city with the support of HDZ whose word is respected in our coalition. The mayor of SDP and Labin, excuse me. A member of the SDP and Mayor Labin. You mean experiments, I'd say, demeaning. It's called, I don't know, a hypocrisis, and we have the experiment. But it's not natural. Now, should there be elections in such cases now, as individuals advocate elections in Velika Gorica? Clearly, it would suit us, but it's also clear that something similar can't be prescribed by law. Secondly, it must not happen that when a critical mass is collected within a council and that critical mass requires changes in order for the president of a council or mayor to obstruct that intention. It's an extremely undemocratic practice. If in the council, let's say, that 21 members of them require changes, no matter who they are now, the president of the council or the mayor won't respect it. And that should be clearly stated in the law by the deadlines, and then it is prevented or not convened by the council in order to pass some deadlines, I don't know, budget and so on and to provoke elections. As far as these mandates are concerned, the bianco resignations, i.e. this law, it is clear that this mandate must be followed by a councilman, must be followed by a representative. And that's the basic constitutional principle, that's the basic principle of democracy, I guess. It is so everywhere in Europe, and I want to believe that it will be so in the Republic of Croatia. Bianca's resignation, as we heard this morning, cannot be given to a stranger. She's being given to the council. The term of office also, clearly, cannot be binding. Between, in one word, the delegate system that ruled Croatia until the 1990s and the parliamentary system, I will always choose this second one, even when it leads to the fact that, for his sake, in Istria or in Liburnia, I don't know, where we participate in the elections we must or lose some municipality or city. Of course it's hard for a man, but it's just like that. What's one thing, what's the other. IDS is... That's why in 2001-2005, because of this practice, we lost Pula, today we lost Labin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're even fixing up in Istria, maybe because there's no such security democracy. We're going from bigger towns to smaller cities. But what am I saying? Being principled is always less bad than being too stubborn. Even at the cost of having that perversion bring you some kind of community, some city or county. What is clearly insulting, what Mr Kramarić was talking about, is simply this campaign of security democracy in Croatia. Croatia, on the other hand, is mature for one complete reform of local self-government, especially when it comes to fiscal democracy, decentralisation. Here, let's say, Mrs. Pusic, if I'm not mistaken, several legal changes have been made in that direction since Mr. Cacic is mayor because he himself realizes that he simply cannot manage his budget from 150 to 200 million kuna. While he was a minister, he had 40 billion kunas. I can't have our counties, gentlemen, having these budgets from 100 to 300 million kuna. It's just I'm not gonna say it embarrassingly, but it's almost embarrassing and it's supposed to change. So it is not important to change in the electoral legislation, although our electoral legislation should certainly be changed when local self-government is already the point in this fiscal decentralisation. Although it is necessary to tell the truth, whenever experimented with electoral legislation, the consequences are tragic, whether it be local self-government or state. Our Electoral Law for Local Self-Government is a tragedy. It changed in 2000, and it is the result of adapting election rules to then-party authorities. All who were then, even though we were in power at that time, said that such a law as Croatia's introduces no one in Europe was ridiculed but today the damage caused by such a law by the entire local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is enormous. By moral damage, by some other occasion. The best law of the elections was the one from 93 when 50% were elected directly, 50% on the list. However, in the list of trades, it is simply unlimited, especially in these small areas, that is, with these independent lists, whatever the notion of independent means that they are in fact not all independent. Finally, whether it makes sense to have an existing law, means to choose a team with lists in the environments where you have 500, 600, 700 voters, and such municipalities in the Republic of Croatia may be 200. No, there isn't, but we did it. Our law only knows such a choice. And now we're discussing this proposal of these enveloped resignations and so forth. Of course that enveloped resignation doesn't make sense. We, as the IDS, have activated this institute in this House, if I am not mistaken, in the 97th Delbianco case that has kicked Axel Lutenberger out of the House, and it is clear that it did not go as it can not pass today. Such an institute knows no one in the world, and it will now be interesting to follow some cases of Dubrovnik and the like where MPs always appear, not MPs, but council members of one and the same party who, behold, also failed a test which means ruling, and are in a position to lead a municipality, a city, a county maybe 5.6 months. But the point is to lead a principled policy. If you're one of the political worldsmen, then stay. If you go to elections with one program, then stick to it, in one word, what you said to people at these concerts, you stick to it, with one word, don't sell your soul to the devil. Politics on the other hand all for power, power for nothing, because simply... , we all know that we are of blood and meat, the same thing is in some other state bodies or public bodies, no matter where individuals are also being sent to suit them and answer, but this interpretation if these proposals proposed by Mr Kramaric were accepted might be correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It won't be much progress for this electoral legislation and morale in local self-government, but one small step certainly is. However, it is an electoral model, it should be the principle that each authority should not adapt electoral rules to itself and that this new electoral law should start to apply not to the first but to those next elections. But what we will do when we are of such a principle that is ruling everywhere in Europe is a few hundred million light-years away. So the term of office belongs to a councilman, a resignation 24 hours before being forced to do so, and if that were clearly specified, it would certainly be a small, but small contribution to such a morale in that local self-government and, in fact, perhaps the most complete statement today was made by Mr Kramarić and I hold that by the Secretary of State or his ministry these proposals will be made in some segment and respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54251	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54252	Well, here's just a little correction, most of it's exactly what my colleague Cain said. A small correction from fellow Caine who claimed that there was trade as on the Ponteros. The ponteros are closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54253	A long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54254	That's right, but what will the Croatians of Ponteros do when they've made their country a megastor for both foreigners and for trade, for political trade, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54255	Dear Representative Niko Rebic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54256	Well, counterpart Cain incorrectly claimed when it comes to the local level of HDZ and SDP coalitions that this is about the red-black coalition. It could be said earlier that counterpart Kai's is a political daltonist when it comes to and if such a coalition is possible, it could be said earlier that it is a red-and-blue coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54257	The color's nice, man. PGS club, SBH, MDS, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54258	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me put my position on behalf of the regional party club, therefore, on these bill proposals. Our club will therefore support the intention to open the debate on these problems even if we do not support the proposed solutions. We therefore support the debate being held in two readings in order to primarily raise the issue of the survival of the existing electoral law that we consider to generate all these problems that we are discussing today. We therefore support the proposed solutions, we believe that the question of the termination of the term of office of a representative body before the end of the regular 4-year term, in the event of the resignation, is resolved by the existing law. Article 7 which therefore speaks of the time of termination of the term of office, and therefore in this 1st point it is said that the term of office shall cease if it resigns, but the act itself shall continue to be detailed that it has not been highlighted in the debate so far. Therefore, if he resigns on the date of delivery of written resignations pursuant to the delivery rights prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. So it also says in Article 7 of the Law which speaks of the moment of termination of the term of office, I think it is a solution that is sufficiently formalized by that act itself. We also think we're gonna... will not solve the problem of abuse of resignations, but it is a matter of political morality and culture, and these laws can help a little. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in recent months, we have witnessed the unfavorable scenes that have created a general picture of us politicians and political parties as well as those who have come to power at all costs as long as the work for the common good is far behind. The result is that, for example, On the table of trust assessments issued by an NGO on a trust assessment, so where the citizens of the thousand were able to give an assessment to certain institutions from 1 to 7 at the very bottom, there are political parties on this chart, and the highest rating was given to most people who are fortunately individual to their encounters. So the political parties received the lowest score of 2, this study was conducted on 4 January 2005, so just before the local elections last year, and that this research was conducted right after the local elections, I think unfortunately that this assessment would be lower, and therefore we all have to imagine ourselves very much. So, these months, we've been witnessing unacceptable behavior in our opinion of this particular segment, so buying council seats, and one of the reasons is that there was a possibility of manipulation with written resignations. In our view, such things would not be repeated or the least possible measure would be needed, i.e. much more important. More radical changes than those proposed by this Law. In our club's view, in order to achieve the intention of proposing this Law, which states itself to prevent the abuse of the law by individuals or political groups with the aim of blocking the work of representative and executive bodies in relation to the units of local, regional (regional) self-government, i.e. changes in election results, I needed to change the system myself, i.e. the choice of councilman. Let me quote the Constitution where Article 132 states: "Citizens are guaranteed the right to local and regional (regional) self-government. The right to self-government is exercised through local or regional regional representative bodies, which are composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct, equal and general voting rights." Thus, the Constitution puts citizens and members of representative councils, not political parties or interest groups in the first plan. And that is why we think that we should amend the Electoral Law in order for a citizen voter to have the security to influence the order of the representative council so as to make sure that his vote is not lost or redirected. Also, to know and to be sure that the candidate, the person who trusted to make decisions and management instead, would be found in the council or the assembly of his municipality, city or county. Unfortunately, the existing law does not fully achieve these goals. By voting only for party or interest lists as regulated by the existing law, there is a risk of imposing party interests or interest groups at the cost of marginalising individual initiatives. In order to reduce such opportunities in our opinion, we should change the Electoral Law and do so in the following directions. First, to introduce a direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. In this way, citizens would be sure that their leader will be the person who won the most votes in the elections. Secondly, in our opinion, the electoral system should be changed so that half of the members of the representative body are elected directly by election units and half by election lists. Citizens would then know and be sure who in this majority section will represent them in the representative body. Until that party-list case isn't. The political party itself determines first, so I have a schedule on the list and the political party itself later determines who will replace a particular candidate from the list. We also think that it should be formalised, so it should be incorporated into the law to give priority to the formation of a representative body's leadership so that this advantage would have the option to win the highest mandate. This is a question in some democracies of political correctness and culture, so unfortunately it happens to us exactly the opposite that the party that has often received either the most votes or the highest mandates therefore has one place left in the management of the municipality, the city or the county while the other parties are just because they have reduced its impact on the government without it. It should also explicitly state in the law that the councilman's mandate is non-binding and that the council members have not been called off. In the 1992 Law on the Selection of Representatives, therefore, it states in Article 7 that members of the representative body of the unit of local self-government do not have a binding mandate, members of these congregations are not called off until the existing law explicitly states that members of the representative bodies have not called off and their rights and duties begin with the day of the establishment of the representative body. The following paragraph therefore states that a member of the representative body cannot be called to criminal and criminal responsibility for spoken words or to vote in the work of the representative body. So it's too tight if we'd like to assure the councilman that he has a non-binding mandate. So, I think that non-binding term should be returned to law. It should also, in our opinion, change, i.e. Differently define the threshold of 5% or reduce that threshold to 3%. In 1992, the 1992 law states, I quote, "The candidate list, which receives less than 5% of the votes, does not participate in the share of seats in the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government". It is said in the current law that the right to participate in the division of seats in the representative body of the unit has lists that receive at least 5% of the voters' votes in force in the elections. Looks like it looks almost the same, but it's not. The existing law also gives those lists they win and more, slightly more than 5% of the vote, so there is a danger or possibility of not getting any council mandate. There have been many such cases in these elections because some lists with 5.8% of votes, thanks to Dont's method, have run out of council space, while the old law said that they are excluded from the same division that have less than 5% of the electoral body. And we know that those 5% votes that are unused are actually exploited in one other way, that these votes get lists that are primarily first or second, or third. So often then vote voters who gave 4.9% of the option for example to the left political direction then go to the right political direction option if it wins first place. We therefore think that this is not how we ensure that voter votes are therefore virtually turned into council terms. We also think that it is necessary to introduce and punish all those who have proved that for their personal material benefit they have used their position as candidates or councilors. And most importantly, we think it is very important that the duty of all representatives, councilors, MPs, is their duty to act morally and responsibly towards those who have given them the confidence to manage their municipality, city, county or Republic of Croatia instead, or we will ask ourselves the question of who will come to our next elections at all and whether these elections with such a small turnout and how legal and legitimate they will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54259	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54260	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! About two months ago in this hall for this pay phone debated on a similar subject, I told all the merchants by mandates in prison. Visiting Croatian Radio on Monday, Mr. Speaker of Parliament Seks said that even under the existing Penal Code, such a transaction is a criminal offence because it obviously takes place for bribery. If, therefore, according to me and the State Attorney's Office only on the basis of the public statements, it responded in time and that the first buyer and seller in that criminal area would probably have been sanctioned to stop further cases and processes that have not been completed but which are still ongoing. And it really is under the current provisions of the Penal Code, there are enough elements and grounds for these people to be prosecuted. These proposed amendments to the law are something else. In light of why the government is coming with this bill of law, it says that there have been Bianca resignations. There's been a bird flu. Well, after the cow's madness, the bird flu in Croatia also appeared in the bianco resignations. Well, it says, yes, Bianca came after the bird flu, right. Bianca's resignations came after the bird flu. It continues to say that as a consequence of the adoption of these amendments to the law will be that it will prevent bianco resignations and others from being misused by individuals and political groups. By individuals and political groups of bianco resignations are an instrument used exclusively by the Croatian party of rights, so I don't understand why the government declares the Croatian party rights a political group? Because it's a political party, not a political group. We have a situation where a living man publicly declares 10 times that he has not signed his resignation, but the government, by means of his office, says he has to conduct a graphological skill, whether or not he signed it? So the councilman says, "I didn't sign." And the government is conducting the graphological skills of his statement, I guess, whether or not he signed it. But at the same time, the same government through its same office does not react to submissions for elections in the City of Pula City Council where a falsified party and a falsified list appeared in the elections and where there was a graphological skill that was demonstrated that the signatures were not authentic and then there is no law. So by the councilman's statement that he didn't resign, we're carrying out graphological skills, and where falsification is found, even the party and the lists are gone... Which also won 4.9% of that falsified list in the City of Pula. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And since that day of the end of the election and the submission of the complaint, no body responsible for these disputes in the Republic of Croatia has given the objectors any answer. And it won't be likely. And where exactly did it all start? What's happening to us in local self-government has been opened and started in this hall and in this House. Funding defects and parties in the so-called Independent. The Law on Elections of Representatives knows only the category of independent lists, independent MPs, and the funding of the defectors has found a foothold of the Law on Political Parties and we have implemented the process. The so-called so-called Parliament. Independents turn into political parties. Because they use the law on political parties. So non-partisan people, candidates on the party lists after the election, become independent representatives. This is where the price list is established. Not in this room, but in the decision of the parent body. The price list is 250 grand a year, and in the term of one million kuna. It's four times less down there... So, unfortunately, we opened the process in Parliament. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Many in local and regional self-government accepted it. Does the proposed law solve the essence of the problem? I don't think so. He looks like the bill on banning work on Sundays. It will be likely that no one can work on Sunday, and it says here that you can only buy 24 hours before the meeting of the representative body begins. And the price will obviously be a little different. Bigger or smaller, I don't know. But I need to remind you of something else. In the electoral actions, any document ending with the electoral commission on the basis of which the lists are submitted and election commissions verify the lists of candidates, firstly, must be certified by the public notary or the electoral commission. And applicants of the local candidate list must have the power of party presidents to sign themselves on the candidate list as valid. So there is no electoral action, no paper that election participants hand over to the electoral commission without it being either certified by the public notary or filled, signed and certified by the electoral commission. By law. And that's good. However, when the same candidate who came to the list had to confirm with the notary that he accepted the candidacy to be on the list at all, when he resigned then, according to our law and interpretation of the law that I never accepted, he could also write on a bag of cement paper. And she's right. If it's okay with anyone. How come even now that we're trying to make an incomprehensible provision of the law, we don't interpret it by the same logic. No resignation without clearance. Authentication and signature. So we're not going to graphologically do more. And very simple. The resignation shall be submitted in writing. The resignation shall be certified by the public notary and shall not exceed two days from the date of submission. And solved the problem. And the possibility of withdrawing your resignation. Of course it can be. And it must remain until the right moment until the competent authority has verified the resignation. Not until the beginning of the session. It's until the mandated body does it. At that time, this phenomenon would almost be reduced to an impossible measure by the bianco resignation. Because the term of office therefore belongs to the councilman. And he can freely dispose of it for as long as the resignation or activation of the mandate has not been carried out. So that's why I suggest to the promoter that only by analogizing the electoral actions and verification of the signature we go to the end of the term of office. Any resignation, either by putting a term of office on hold. And we will remove the doubt of the authenticity of the signatures, deadlines and everything else. Is that the right thing to do? Temporarily, in this term, there is a series of consequences that we knew of both cause and before the election. Even before these local elections on behalf of the Croatian People's Party for this speaker, I also spoke and warned you that we can only prevent the trade of mandates in one way or another. To remove the purchase of mandates. And the cause and cause of the purchase of mandates are not council seats but the main functions in municipalities, cities and counties and that votes are only bought when the main people, their assistants and possibly members of the headship are elected. With the immediate selection of leaders, the motives of the buy-in are gone. There's no need because the sale was done by voters and elected by leaders, that there is no headship in direct elections, there is no reason to buy or headship, and I don't believe that anyone will buy someone for who will be president of the representative body because that's less important. So if we want to do this with real causes, motives and reasons, then it's a direct election. We missed our chance before the election because you didn't accept our bill the third time. Now, in the meantime, we've had a proposal to the government on this area, a lot of faling to say so, but we haven't done anything further and we haven't done medicine in politics. The most perfect methods are to remove the causes, not to solve the consequences. And if we all agreed to remove the causes, then it's just by introducing direct choices. Fearing each other's jurisdiction as if it were impossible to resolve these relations and put them on paper. Because if we don't know how to write it, let's ask the neighbors how they handled it. If our neighbors don't suit us, let's move on to Europe, and we'll find a solution to how it's done. This is a classic example to eliminate causes or try to... About things we knew before the election they'd get rid of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same thing happened in the last term just wasn't so media-interesting, it just wasn't so much shouting and shouting and it didn't cause that much trouble. Let us be consistent to the end, and if we are to resolve this, then apply those mechanisms that will eliminate all the causes and introduce direct elections. If the same proposal makes the Government come and read this bill another way, we must not support it, because nothing solves only clouding the eyes, only otherwise regulates the same procedure, and therefore, finally, I call on the Government's representative to consider the proposal that I have made, and that is the way we are going, but only as a temporary solution to the adoption of the law on direct elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54261	Thank you. Correction by Mr. Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not true that Mr. Lesar declares it in his debate and says whether someone from the Croatian Party is real and calling the former members of the Croatian Party the right to sign or did not sign the resignation, because you Mr. Lesar have never seen what these resignations look like, let alone knowing who did them and when and how he arranged them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54263	And respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54264	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the council's trade is only done because of the leading positions. Here's an example from the council of the Holy Weeks of the last few years. The HNS president became SDP president, the SDP president became HNS president, the HNS president, and the HNS president was disappointed to get out of the party. They were all in opposition and a very small opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54265	It's very difficult to monitor transactions. Honorable representative Zeljko Pecek, club representative of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54266	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We have been having a very interesting debate here today about whether the mandate of the elected irrevocable, regardless of what the constitutional category is for 15 years, and whatever we have had here in the Parliament, and practice, I would dare say in all the combinations that we have long ago established how we do. Why does that apply in the Parliament, and why it doesn't apply to local self-government units, is what I'd be asking the state office right now. Also, whether the resignation can be handed over and also called off only that councilman who has been elected. What would happen if someone on behalf of our president Mr. Shecks resigned? Would you check that resignation if he signed it? Of course you would. Would you accept me? Well, of course they wouldn't accept it unless he wanted to. Well, we've done it countless times in the House on the board and proved that we know how to do it. But my question is why we don't do the same in cities and municipalities. But what concerns me most here in this law that he will cement. Of course, there is no retroactive activity, which is why it should and should have its feedback best show us an example from Požega. And why no one should actually be deprived of that mandate, I'm telling you the same example from Požega. The elected councilman in the county assembly has raised his hand against crime. From the county budget, $13 million disappeared. That's what the audit confirmed. It was working in a strange way with a single company from the county itself. Finally what we saw or didn't see in a stenogram from a closed cabinet session. But the guards of the elected councilman did not let him raise his hand against crime in the building. He was chosen instead by someone else who apparently raised his hand for that crime. Here you see, if for no other reason then for this reason we probably wouldn't be able to recall in a similar way but the elected councillors. But what is fundamental to this law where man is in that story? One who chooses, but also one who is chosen. A man who chooses after a change of government actually doesn't want to go to elections anymore because we all know how to speak among people. They're all the same, they're all thinking about themselves, they're all thieves, they're corrupt, and they're actually doing a terrible policy today because it looks like we just want to send messages like that. According to the public, politics is actually very similar to what we say is the oldest in the world. Our electoral folklore I'd call carrot-and-beat politics. That's a figuratively very well said. In doing so, our voter has a carrot on his stick all the time. The question, however, is how long will they run after the carrot and hope that it will choose the best political option that ever happened, and that no one will change that after the election, so that the political option will implement the programmes it has taken up and finally round the ballot. As well as those chosen can be classified as the story of carrots and beatings. One who needs to change the political option is initially offered carrots in the form of a paid supervisory board, carrots in the form of a job for him or his child. Finally, money is offered, we've all heard that. If he doesn't want to take that carrot, then there's a beating. Threatening him, threatening his family to lose their jobs this time, not to be able to get credit, not to be able to get land for rent and the like. Still every day different... They tour the councilmen around their houses and try to push. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course the police don't know anything about it. He doesn't know, he doesn't know anything about the political corruption they sing about and the sparrows on the branch. He doesn't even know about threats. Just as our state office doesn't know how many municipalities have changed after the elections, or if it does, I'd like to hear it in the light of this law because it's very important. Similarly, he does not know or want to tell us how many municipalities and cities need to be monitored to see if they are legally acting. I'm curious to know how many requests there are for surveillance if we can hear it. However, these pressures are carried out on entire families, and for this there is one elaborate mechanism of action, and that is what individuals do. Sadly, even often from the public ministry or those involved. The police didn't prove anything because they didn't do anything. I've been talking about this for the third time here in the Parliament. There are also concrete remarks, and there are finally complaints of people, but no one responds to that. I feel sorry for those, even those who are greedy, so they act under a change of political options. I am equally sorry for those who are weak and miss and change the political option, and this actually automatically gets the Stigma both they and their family members. It lasts for several generations. An interesting offer we heard from Prime Minister Sanader during the current hour Wednesday, where he said political parties should agree not to accept apostates in forming an executive government. I'm sending a different message. We should consider apostates to be those who are bribed and who threaten, and most of all they are from which they are political order. And they should be kicked out of the party, each party should be kicked out because they threaten and wish to change the voter's will after the election. Will this law change anything? Well, of course not, because it just confirms that practice that we in the Parliament have spent so many times and now, by some miracle, it would be cemented and applied in cities and municipalities. However, we have another problem here that we have not talked about in this Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government, and this problem is very important and is under the rug. A large number of cities and municipalities exist where they rule against the law. I have here a letter from a councilman from the municipality of Nova Bukovica. By the way, it's a municipality where the government was changed after the election. The letter was sent to our central state in the following words: "On two occasions on 2 January and 6 January this year we informed the Central State Office for the Management of the Republic of Croatia that the majority of the Municipality of Nova Bukovica made illegal decisions and systematically violates both the Statute and the Rules of Procedure of Nova Bukovica Municipality. It also violates the Law on local and regional self-government and other laws. We re-routed the warning and explained it in detail on January 27, 2006. We wouldn't want to question the objectivity of the office, but since we haven't received any response to our memos so far, it looks like we're going to have to become aware that there's something wrong. That with a variety of alerts, so-called cases of irregularities benefiting the ruling party from irregularities made up of members of the ruling party." In the municipality of Nova Bukovica, there is an option on the scene where the laws are violated by members of the ruling party. I wouldn't charge here that it's intentional, however, concerns the administration's silence, worrying that municipal council members are referring to several letters, and the state's office is not responding at all, let alone to direct surveillance. Well, finally, that's exactly what I'm curious about. How many requests are required for supervision because we are likely to be able to evaluate very easily how many cities and municipalities are ruled in an illegal way. This law won't change that. We have to change practice, and because of that, because he's folklore, we're not going to support this law in HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54267	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Oh, my friend Pecek says that the Požega case was about supporting crime. In fact, it was a political trade that HSP prevented in Požega. Some of my colleagues here are simply obsessed with some kind of trade and to the extent that, behold, Mr. Vidovic is wrong and my last name is that he is no longer the mayor of Sisak City.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54269	And the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54270	Thank you very much. It is a completely incorrect claim made by Mr. Pecek when he says it is necessary to punish not those who go from party to party but those who have bribed and threatened to cross and to know which parties they are doing it from. This is totally incorrect because since 2003, the names of people who were forced to leave a party that was then at the state level in the opposition and to move to Mr. Pecek's party are very well known in Međimurje. And not only that, because they had to do it for one reason or another, but they were threatened if they didn't do it, they'd be out of work in institutions that were tied to the ministry led by Mr. Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54271	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Representative Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54272	Thank you very much. I'm going to have to connect with Mr. Dance, because he's obviously reading thoughts remotely, we can be telepathically connected. He was talking about what I wasn't talking about. I said you know that, but since he recognized himself in the story, you know who's bribering and threatening, and you explained it, he probably guessed the point of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54273	Now we're going to an individual debate. Here's where I would now decrypt this signature who resigned to rest, I could find it very difficult to establish. But since I already know that signature, then it will be the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54274	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. What happened after the local elections is certain that it is something that has detached the entire political life, the entire political world in Croatia. And now you see that in some way the government would show the public that it is she who wants to prevent everything that has happened and wash her hands from the whole situation, it is submitted to the Parliament this bill, with one with two articles that will create only more confusion and confusion. We will all agree together and claim that politics is so important and that society that does not care about it is condemning itself to failure. Politics is important and it is as if it wants to show that it is her intention to establish this policy in its fullness and to send a message to the public, here is a bill that we want to rehabilitate politics in the Republic of Croatia. However, whether this is the case and whether all these numerous affairs associated with some persons or with parties are related only to them because they cause accusations, suspicions, prejudices and because they are very easy to spill over to the entire political life in Croatia, because in some ways they impose both generalizations and simple public reasoning are all the same. The abuses that arise should certainly not represent a tree that hides the forest of those who are just concerned about justice, solidarity and investment and want to engage politically in order to invest all their own strengths in this one human business, the work of community and general interests. But is that what it is? Who is responsible for this one situation in Croatia that has taken serious proportions, i.e. who is the most responsible and who in Croatia is in charge of controlling the illegalities that occur in local self-government units. Is there a standard that they're dealing with? Not only are there standards, but there is a special office, almost at the level of the ministry. He was once an integral part of the Ministry of Justice, now a special central state office that will control state elections tomorrow, whose head will be the head of the Supreme Court, so what Ivica Crnic was yesterday, that is, today would have been that he remained in the post and to control the election of Mr Horvat. Therefore, whether the public has a body that serves the government and which is now proposing to disband, i.e. intervene in a particular unit of local self-government. My colleagues have already spoken here, my colleague Pacek has spoken, write clubs in a certain council that the central state office intervenes. He doesn't intervene, sometimes intervene right away, overnight, in the same things different decisions. How this can not only affect political stability, legality and principled rule of law in one country but also how citizens can trust then from the central state to the local self-government unit. Am I even talking about when it all started? So it didn't begin only after the local elections, let's remember that it started with the campaign of the government that was sent to Pozeg to provoke the elections before the regular elections and the government was overnight, and let's remember the first day that the purpose was to prevent the president of the then city council from holding a session because the minister kept saying he would come there on a visit or that this man would come to Zagreb, is that worthy of a member of the government. After the elections in the same service, the second minister in Karlovac, signed a trade agreement, appeared. Nothing to anyone. I think it would be more serious to react to these phenomena than to write these changes, we would all be more credible, and to our own government. Why are resignations accepted somewhere around here, they're not accepted elsewhere in the same situation. Why is he reacting somewhere, not reacting somewhere? Here in Požega, the next day was immediately a cabinet session, I don't even know if it was Thursday because it was necessary to react immediately and disband the city council. An example in the Supremes where I ask you to have such absurdity that all parties write to the central office, writes the local HDZ itself, but the central office and the government do not react because it is not easy given the coalition partner at the state level. And when does he react? Central State Office please respond when it's too late to request judicial protection because the next regular election. Such a situation was eight, nine months, where no interrogation was required, where it is quite clear that there is no majority and that the municipal council should be disbanded. Please believe, then, with all this when the Government, and this was drawn up by the Central State Office after the local elections, gives instructions to all units of local self-government how to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, where, in addition to the regular elections, instead of the term of office, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities must be represented in the light of the numbers in a particular unit of local self-government of the national minority. Most of the time, it's about Serbs, not stuttering here. Then the Central State Office writes to the Government, and the government makes a decision sending instructions to all units of local self-government. Please, it's not the data from the polling lists, it's the relevant data on the number of people, the 2001 census, and the explanation is that the voter lists were not arranged, and in those elections, and with that list, they went to the polls. And what more is there to say? Is there anything more to be said here? And then the government, after that, please pass a bill like this, that these resignations will be valid if they are, they must not be 24 hours older. How can he be approached within 24 hours? Let's go shop then it's booming, the culmination is, let's go partying, we're looking for that councilman in 24 hours, and he can be withdrawing his resignation any minute. Wherever there's a system in the world where the resignation is if one day it can be withdrawn. This Law could only be solved by those who endure it and whom it is tolerated and it is over, but it is a relic that is still used by the socialist system that is abundantly used by this government. When? In situations compromising when there is that head, he submits that he would wash his resignation in front of the public, and then the competent authority, where he does not accept it, and he is washed from everything, washed and moved on. It's the same way in this situation that he resigns, and then he changes his mind. So what do you need? The current law also said on the day of handling may have remained controversial, it should not be doubted whether the party has a right if it is in advance, of course it is later and difficult to prove if it is anti-dated, if it is the date of submission, but it may also need to be considered and amended, as nothing has improved in this way. So with this proposal, the government has only one goal to wash off its responsibility, to show the public that it is not our fault. It's a bit everyone's fault, all those who've given themselves to corrupt, but not all of them. They need to be removed, sanctioned, and that's what the Central Office is in charge of. But I'm asking a question, we only have one inconvenience here and one unresolved question, who's going to sanction the Central State Office?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54275	Dear Representative Vladimir Jelkovac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54276	I would like to correct the incorrect allegations and he was not first said in this assembly that, among other things, a trade agreement was signed in Karlovac. The agreement was signed between the City Committee of HDZ, president of the Retirement Party on joint action in the City Council, and for your failure, you then disbanded the SDP City Committee in Karlovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54277	State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54278	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We've been discussing the law for two hours now, but we've heard a few attacks on an office that I have the honour of leading. I must repeat this, this office follows the law, implements the practice of the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court and the administrative practice created by all the predecessors who did this work before me. In two years there's been a lot of attacks like this, I've never gone into personal accounts because I don't think it's worthy of this House, and so I'm just gonna be free to show one piece of paper because I'm in some advantage because I have an archive that's been created all these years. I have a memo from the Ministry of Justice, the administration and local self-government since 17 July 2003 in the case of Petrinja. So, the opinion legalizes the change of power that I have to respect and administrative practice and I can't... But since our office didn't issue a deal with opinions, not administrative acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, not a single case that has been in the Administrative Court, which has worked the office has been abolished, and we know the disbanding of the Osijek-Baranja County that has fallen in the Constitutional Court but the Constitutional Court has taken a position on some issues, we respect that, we have even asked some questions about authentic interpretation. So, we are working on the basis of law, court practice, constitutional court, administrative court and administrative practice created, surveillance will be done everywhere and in Bukovac as we heard, I have to look at it because, probably as in procedure we have a service that does so and the court will apply the same criteria. When we write an opinion, when we take a legal stand, when he comes out of the house, he binds us and everyone can call on him. So that's how much we want this law to stop what we have said to the future bianko of the foundation, to contribute to the rule of law, but we are acting in principle, and for our work, the Secretary of State corresponds to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54279	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54280	Mr. President, the imprecise assumption is that Mr. Secretary of State, who has established here on two or three occasions in this address, is to work on the basis of laws, judicial, administrative practices, etc. You can't work under the law when in the last few months in certain cases you're not doing anything. And secondly, at the end of the day, you said that by this bill, I would call it amendments to the law, you would prevent further bianko resignations, and you said well after the cabinet's session that you discovered that the parties would still be able to use the institution-converted resignations with that they would have to be arranged at the latest 24 hours before. Then how do you prevent the future of Bianca's resignation?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54281	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54282	It is incorrect that Mr. Palaric argued that he is holding the Constitution and the decision of the Administrative Court because he has been making it impossible for months in certain units of local self-government so that councilors can address the Constitutional Court in general the decision-making process. But that's why you send in Vir twice administrative surveillance, in Požega-Slavon County nine criminal charges, nine addresses to you. You didn't send any surveillance. Next, you're waving Peter's paper. It's true. And what's so controversial about that? But watch out, keep going. Look at the complete archive so you'll see that the councils were disbanded and where the coalition was, where the SDP itself was in power and show where they, where the HDZ was in power, was in the opposition where it reacted, when you reacted? Never.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54283	Dear representative Milanka Opačić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54284	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Secretary of State who said the Central State Office is working in accordance with the practice of the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court. So I don't know if the practice of both courts isn't to decide for months when the request is submitted by the SDP for supervision but within two days they decide on the case when the request is referred to by the HDZ. It's your practice. I don't know that practice is these two courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54285	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54286	I am also correcting Mr Palaric's claim as quite incorrect because Mr Palaric and his office have not acted on examples of court practice, which is, for example, witnessed by an opinion issued not as a colleague says within two days but within two hours when a group of citizens came to Mr Palaric's office to declare themselves power in the town of Sisak. Then he supported their opinion by the act of the Administrative Court in the case of the Gareshnica which was completely different from what he could not know about in Sisak, because Mr. Palaric did not call the official government of the town of Sisak on the phone, let alone ask for any act to give his opinion within two hours to a group of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54287	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54288	I am correcting Mr. Palaric's incorrect allegations when he said the state's office was working under the law on an up-to-date basis, etc. Mr. Palaric, that's not true because practice disproves you. You don't work in accordance with the law and you don't particularly work on duty, of course, where it doesn't suit you. Evidence of this is your irresponsibleness and your behavior in the case of the Drenovci municipality where thanks to your lack of courage there are two councils. Two councils exist for months and suffers from the municipalities. Should I mention the Upper Goddesses or in order of the municipalities in which you have made a mess?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54289	State Secretary Antun Palaric explains.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54290	There are cases in which it is necessary to establish whether or not a criminal offence and proceedings are committed before the police and the State's Attorney's Office. We can't determine whether the resignations are falsified or not. It's a question of whether a crime has been committed or not in those cases. But there are 600 units of local self-government. We issued an administrative act in Sisak quickly because of Mr Vidovic's insistence. We are convinced that this was based on court practice and finally on this practice from Petrinja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54291	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54292	Well, it's incorrect what Mr. Palaric said. He says there's a situation where we need to determine the facts. There are all situations where we need to determine. Or somewhere in general, you don't do it by fact, you do it by direction and by directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54293	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54294	Mr. Palaric, the facts need to be determined but the facts need to be determined when there is a real situation for it, not when you are clouding the situation. In the case of the municipality of Drenovci, you have clouded the situation and no one has asked the question of falsifying the signature of the resignation but you have, or have given the opinion that the President of the Council does not even have the right to set a session when it is really necessary. Thanks to that, Mr. Palaric, a few months doesn't work for the municipalities. I don't call it responsibility and you comfort your conscience and call it responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54295	And Milanka Opačić. ... You're not. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You don't admit it? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Vidic, did you confess? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54296	I just wanted to make a reference... Correction of the incorrect assumption that exactly what Mr Palaric said was that I insisted that an opinion be issued within two hours as an act of appeal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all I asked, so it doesn't turn out to be my request. Because my request to determine the state and protect legality in the city of Sisak has not been granted nor have I received any answer of that kind.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54297	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54298	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State! I hope, Your Honor, you won't interrupt me today because I'm going to derail me eventually. So today we are here to discuss, unfortunately, an absolutely unnecessary law. This law does not solve anything except to arrange the working time of trade in council terms. In such a way as to limit the working time of the council's mandates and to shorten it from full-time so that it can last 23 hours only because here is shorter than those 24 hours before the meeting of the representative's body can be convened, the resignation may be withdrawn. Instead of discussing today or discussing these days, for example 35 laws that would allow units of local self-government to consume their right to be granted to them by this House to amend the Law on Local Self-Government, which entered into force on 8 November last year, which requires all units of local self-government to comply with their statutes by 8 February. We discuss in a proper reading of something that does not matter at all and does not solve anything. You see, we are discussing when council mandates can be traded, but we are not discussing allowing units of local self-government to manage public roads that we have given them by law and that units of local self-government have installed their statutes. They spent time, they spent money, they tried to carry out the procedure, they signed their statutes that the counties and large cities were responsible for maintaining public roads, but none of it. We debated here yesterday about the "Split bypass" when, suddenly, President of the Parliament interrupted me in an argument You interrupted me and shared a reminder. [[Intruder: I didn't interrupt you just warned you to stick to the topic.]] About the Split bypass, we were discussing the Split bypass here yesterday. "The Split bypass is a public road. Public roads under the Law on Local Self-Government, which entered into force on 8 November last year in Split-Dalmatin County, should be taken care of by Split-Dalmatin County and by part of the road passing through the City of Split, City of Split. The town of Split, not the "Croatian Roads". Not Croatian Roads. The Split-Dalmatian County has changed, I hope, its statute. She has installed that obligation and authority in her statute. I think the City of Split did it, and then the Parliament decided that it would take credit and that the construction of that public road, the construction of that public road would be done by the "Croatian Roads". Now instead of making it possible for us to allow the Split-Dalmatin County to really apply its right to it on 8 November last year, we are discussing today until it can be traded with council mandates. And it is said: "The council mandates can be traded up to 24 hours before the session is held." Well, then you have 23 hours of "treading." You have a time when you will raise your price and then an hour before the session can be held you can withdraw that resignation if you have achieved a good price. If the price is good, of course, that you will resign and will again wait for the next session of the City Council, the Municipal Council and the County Assembly and you will again resign and again have time to bargain for 23 hours and again if you achieve a good price you will withdraw there, withdraw that resignation. Not only are we not preventing the manipulation of the resignations, we are here pretending to pull-pull democracy at the local level. Because we really leave 23 hours of opportunity to determine the price. So it might be better to call these 23 hours of the council mandates. Because I don't see any reason why all councilmen wouldn't resign 24 hours before holding a session and trading. And an hour before the session, everyone just pulls those resignations and keeps on working like nothing happened, right? Now you see the existing law that solves everything in my view as far as the mandate and the new law are concerned, therefore, the amendments and additions to this Law say that the mandate ceases at the time of the delivery of the written resignation. So at that point, the term of office ends. And then the government is now proposing that a second item of the article be entered to say that you can withdraw an hour before the session is held. You may be able to withdraw your resignation, but there's no one to return your mandate. The term of office can only be assigned to citizens in the elections. You can't withdraw your resignation and bring back something that's stopped at some point. So at the time of his resignation, he stopped his term of office. And no one but the citizens can repay the mandate. We can't pull back a little. Well, it's not a rope move. It's a local democracy. Therefore, the government itself is contrary to this, this Law, this absolutely unnecessary law. So what does the government say again? He says, "You can take the resignation 24 hours before calling the City Council or the representative body." So someone who assumes the president of a representative body who assumes, for example, that some of the council members will resign will simply call on the representative body's meeting as the president of the Parliament does. A session of the representative body will take months. Therefore, you will make it impossible for the councilman to resign because there is no reason not for the meetings of the representative body to be convened as the session was called, for example, this session of the Parliament. So I also prevent councilmen from simply using their own, their ability to have their mandates. Now let's go back to what it all started out with, and that's what it's all about. Bianco's resignation. See if the law says both the existing and the amendments to the law to stop the mandate when you resign on the day of delivery of written resignations. It's not in the law you're delivering written resignations to. We can therefore say so if the party has proposed you on the list that it can be interpreted as ending the term of office and at the time when you submitted your resignation to the party. So you asked the party to hand it over to the manual. That's why all HSP council members resigned just asking why the HSP president doesn't want to forward these resignations to the city and county, city and municipal councils of the County Assembly? Because these councilmen obviously resigned. And now the question is, who can decide for them when these resignations will be forwarded? These resignations are reportedly located in the offices of the Croatian party of law. And it should not be reportedly, said the president of the Croatian party of rights several times said that those with enveloped resignations wanted to prevent a change in the voter's will for Croatian citizens. Therefore, resignations were submitted by Croatian parties to the rights, they...... There is none, there is no representative, there is no councilman. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The MPs have more important things to do, counting the envelopes, I guess how many they have left. So they did, the councilmen resigned. The resignations are somewhere. Someone should determine where the resignations are to activate the resignations. The resignations cannot be activated when the party's president wishes to do so, as HSP colleagues also said the resignation is a personal act. If the resignation is a personal act, if it is signed before the party president and given to the party president, then that resignation is simply and submitted. And maybe here you should turn the whole story upside down and ask where those resignations are, ask the president of HSP to bring these resignations and activate those resignations, and then the problem will be solved. I propose to the Government to withdraw this bizarre law, the bill, because there are many things in this law that need to be changed in addition to regulating our working time by trading council terms, and I call on the Government to finally amend 35 laws in accordance with its promises and to allow units of local self-government to use and consume their rights and finally decentralise the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54299	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54300	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. It is quite incorrect that the Split bypass does not pass through the town of Split at all. This is the name for reasons because Split is the seat of Split-Dalmatia County, and “Split bypass” is a state road that connects and enables fast flow of goods, people, capital and which daily serves for this purpose over 300,000 inhabitants of Trogir, Kaštel, Solina, Dugi Rat, Omis and Podstrana and is actually incorrectly also this state office is doing great by law and regulation and using and creating new practice in the charm of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54301	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54302	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. We're discussing it here today, and maybe if we don't get to the break we'll continue on to something that seems to me and the public agrees already with the sparrows on the branch clearly. According to the current constitutional and numerous legislative provisions, all relevant experts in this area agree to a council mandate belong to the elected council member. Also in one newspaper today, the political secretary of the Croatian Democratic Community, our colleague, Zubovic, who quoted him as saying, "The mandate belongs to the councilman, not to foreigners." That's what the Constitution says. Of course, the president of the HDZ party himself, or the current prime minister, said these words. We are discussing here today, I will now say as I said in the incorrect, when I was correcting the incorrect quote, call the amendments and additions of one law when we are still trying to convince the last days of last Thursday that here are these changes and supplementing those two items in the future in fact to clarify all existing ambiguities and then perhaps, even more importantly, I think in this case that finally and the Central State Office headed by Mr. Palaric will know what to do. Because so far, unfortunately, he and his office didn't know that. In some cases, they did not know that they had to work, and especially that they should work quickly because of the local self-government, because of the functioning of certain municipal and city councils. So it's about the lives of citizens in the area of the local community. And of course, how would you even know to work, even if you try to work in accordance with the law and the Constitution? I personally consider it directly responsible for the current legal uncertainty, and probably as it is now already beginning to read the question of the possible legal work of certain county councils, city and municipal councils because of what it does, refuses to give an interpretation, refuses to give, extend time, months pass, hides behind other state authorities and waits for them to do their part of the work and, of course, depends on who should remain or come to power in some local community. And so I agree, and I think it's right that those who are the office, the Central State Office, were renamed to a central state mess. And even the Constitutional Court, let me put it that way, put the ball back to the office, so whatever I think about at this point, that's the Constitutional Court's decision. But even after I know the Central State Office doesn't react. I beg you, there is no Mr. Palarić but there are some of his co-workers from the office, it is not clear to me, so try to answer me and try to convince me why these changes and additions will undoubtedly determine that the mandate belongs to the councilman, the elected councilman, and not to the party that I repeat so much you are trying to sell the last days to the Croatian public. But, of course, it's said, we're sorry, but that law won't be able to be retroactively applied, so what's been going on in the last few months is probably a papal cat or how to say it. What's really changing? I don't think anything changes at all. I agree here fully with my colleague Mršić, who says literally that you have just introduced an office time when some mandate will be activated and how long he has or remains a councilman to withdraw the mandate. And now I'm going one step further, and then I'm asking you. So where it is seen that the bianco resignations are no longer valid, i.e. as counterpart Palaric also said in a daily newspaper after a cabinet session and who now has to guarantee that councilman whose party activated his bianco resignation, who now has to inform the councilman that he has until the beginning of the session that he will eventually resign if he does not agree that his mandate has been activated. I have to say that there is no change here in these proposals. If that's written somewhere in other articles of this law, then explain it to me, because this way I don't know how to avoid any future manipulations. In the assessment of the situation of these amendments, it is literally written that, in certain situations, members of the representative bodies or their deputies were selected to be prevented and disabled by often and extra-institutional means in the conduct of their council mandate. In fact, it was acknowledged that there was an irregularity, but that nothing seemed to be brought to justice in time, which is at the very end of the line of duty of this office, and I think it also stands in his job description. The saddest thing that seems to me after all is that the entire government, but the prime minister, too, is behind this kind of office's unhappiness, because if someone hadn't been standing long ago, they wouldn't have been acting the function he was in. Someone today seems to me on behalf of the club talking about these amendments and the additions to the law said that no matter how much you want them to slap in Croatia, no matter what. I claim that with such changes or what is trying to sell as changes and additions to the law will certainly not happen. Whatever you say to me and whatever you mean to me no matter which party you belong to, our problem is that some of the institutions that the state has and who are obliged to interpret on the one hand, but on the other hand to enforce the laws, they do not. And by their inaction or even by doing, they are directly raising smaller or larger current interests, but what is worst they are telling the citizens of this Croatia that they should not have confidence in the institutions they should have, and these institutions should allow them to achieve and guarantee their right to choose those they want in the local elections, not those who currently like someone who is in the state government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54303	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54304	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, representatives of the ministry, the state office, colleagues and colleagues. The legislation that regulates local self-government is obviously an eternal topic that has been rounding us all along, which is rounding up our voters, citizens, and obviously a good part of the time in the future will remain that way. It seems to me that we also give our discussions a lot of ground and arguments to make such an impression of the functioning of local self-government even though the figures, and the figures say they're not lying, say something else. We have about 600 units of local self-government, i.e. regional self-government and that large part, a large part that works quite neatly and never mentions it quite well, and unfortunately we are always in our minds and always in our discussions are the smaller number of environments where unfortunately some things happen that we would not want to happen in the way that happened. If we have 600 units of local or regional self-government here today in that negative context we didn't mention more than six, and that's just one prominence. But it certainly needs to be resolved. We're also talking about two different things, one proposal for a law that we have today in our first reading and that needs to be solved, just one segment of the problem, but of course we're talking more about the overall functioning of local self-government and then so on. trades in office. Crossing the councilman from one party to another is one thing, and the bianco resignation we should try today to indicate how to get out of the existing situation, something else. In one of my corrections, I have already said today that the problem with irresponsibility, dishonesty, the immorality of individuals who, for example, sell their mandate and that, and we have said that the mandate belongs to the councilman, no one can solve it but voters in the next elections that such a councilman should sanction and no longer choose in the representative body. I'm not sure that only the Croatian state in which such a thing is happening is certainly such things are happening in countries with centuries of democratic practice, but let's just say that we want to do this and we have to prove to our own examples that these miss documents. So in the application of the law, and I am now going back to this particular proposal itself, following the last local elections, there have been some doubts about the application of the institute, so on. Bianca's resignations and here's an attempt to resolve these misunderstandings by law. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Law consists of two paragraphs, and the way it is proposed cannot remain because it would indeed remain undetermined in this way. I'm going to try to suggest or suggest to the promoter maybe a formulation, so if there's anything out of it that can possibly be used, I'll be glad. The proposal therefore states that if the councilman resigns, at the time of receipt of a written resignation which must not be later than 24 hours before the meeting of the representative body, then his term of office shall cease, and then it shall be said in the second sentence that a member of the representative body may withdraw the written resignation no later than the beginning of the session. He's not going with each other, because he has nothing left to pull since 24 hours before his term ended. I suggest that the formulation stands, so if he resigns no later than 24 hours before the meeting of the representative body, so that the resignation takes effect with the beginning of the first session of the representative body. Then there'd be a 24-hour deadline in which the councilman could withdraw his resignation. It is doubtless that the mandate belongs to the councilman, it is also doubtless that he has the right to resign and what I suggest to the promoter to clarify the resignation institute until the second reading, to prescribe the procedure of how the resignation is given within what time and how it can be withdrawn. I believe that it is possible among other things and in this way that I have said in my proposal for a formulation, of course with clarification of the procedure itself, then to see what the role of the mandate committee is, and in the end I think we will solve a good part of the concerns we have, of course not all. By adopting the Law on the direct selection of the Head of the Unit of Local Self-Government and Administration and for the reasons I have spoken, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54305	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54306	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What does this law solve? But nothing at all. Is the term of office binding or not? Does it belong to the councilman or does it not belong to the councilman? Well, we know that. We know that without this law. That's what the Constitution says. This law, it's the release of fog, it's the creation of a smoke screen. Well, to keep it in that fog, in that smoke to hide the real problem. And what's the real problem? The real problem is the faceless, unscrupulous, rude trade in mandates, the act of voter will. To make such a trade happen, there must be two sides. There must be a buyer and there must be a seller. Who are the sellers? The sellers are the lowlifes, the lowlifes, the silver lovers of all colors and the fels. They've always been and will be. No such society can be freed and neither can Croatian. There's always a nobody. Who patented this councilman's purchase? Who's got all the rights, copyright? The late President Franjo Tudjman said at the time of the Zagreb crisis "we will not suffer the opposition situation in Zagreb", and we will not actually endure the existence, the achievement of the voter's will. And that's what he's been through. He patented the purchase of councilmen because two councilmen, then from HSS Bukovic and Šporer, sold out. You know, in history, sometimes a name becomes a general term. That's what happened to Quisling. His own name has become a common concept for a traitor of the homeland. That is what will happen to Bovic and Šporer. Their names have become a general concept of honor sales, reputation, honesty, voter will. And when you say Buchovic and Šporer, then you know exactly what you're thinking. Well, Bovic and Šporer will be joined by another, see, Sisak Nikolic and Kinda. And while Zagreb is there will be terms Buković and Šporer as an example, as an exemplar of corruption, betrayal, trade, silver love. And while Sisak exists, there will be the concepts of Nikolic and Kindi as examples of dishonest, dirty, commercial behavior. Now, so much for salesmen. Now, who are the customers? We know that, too. Mostly HDZ. That is not to be proved, it has been proven, certified and signed when Minister Vukelic signed such a trade agreement with one HSU councilman in Karlovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54307	Your Honor, I ask you not to label the Croatian Democratic Community or any other party in your speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54308	Dear Vice President, and I beg you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54309	These details you now present without any evidence. So neither HDZ nor any other party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54310	Honorable Vice President, and I ask you to stick to the Constitution, the Law on the Rights of Representatives and our Rules of Procedure, and to allow a representative in this House to speak. Because it is his right to be guaranteed by the Constitution, the Law and the Rules of Procedure. Please, don't break it, be worthy of the role you're playing here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54311	I'm very worthy of the role I play, but I'm trying to warn you...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54312	Don't waste my time arguing, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54313	... towarn that you do not label...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54314	Don't warn me...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54315	...any party without proof...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54316	HDZ buys mandates, do you understand? HDZ buys mandates, Minister Vukelic signs a trade contract. That trade contract was published in the paper. Do you understand? Am I clear enough? You want me to do it again? HDZ and Minister Vukelic. That it's an example of a store, so it's not just a Carl case. Well, in Split, Buljubasic won the concession, got a man concession. It has direct material benefits from selling the voter's trust. The president of the Seks Assembly said on a radio show the other day that in these cases the Penal Code should be tightened, an unconditional prison sentence should be prescribed if it is proved that someone had direct material benefits. I call on President Seks to initiate this amendment to the Penal Code or do so in agreement with the minister so that Buljubasic, who received a concession from the government, gets a state concession for selling his term in prison. Then I'll trust Shakespeare, then I'll trust HDZ and you, Mr. Vice President, when you interrupt me from telling the truth. Great Gorica, Brdek. The man says, he says in front of reporters, they offered, "HDZ offered me a suitcase with money. They opened the suitcase and I saw the money." He didn't say, some offered me. He said Hill HDZ was offering me money. He later corrected that statement, said they offered him a suitcase with no money. I don't know what would have been achieved if he had won the suitcase without money, and then later, the binco case did, and then he corrected that statement again and he said, "No, no, they offered me money, but I didn't take the money." He didn't take the money, and he acts like he took it. And now, why the store? The one who sells knows why. Money, position, influence, concession, he knows why. The one who buys what he buys? He buys power. He buys power. And who does the government belong to in this country? And we know that. This was resolved by Article 1. The constitution that says, "In the Republic of Croatia, the government comes from the people and belongs to the people." Now, the people choose power, by their own free will. But then there's someone who trades with that will. When the government is established it is then an expression of the will of the people shown in the elections. When the government changes without a choice, it's an annulment of that will. And here it is quite clear how it should be done. It is necessary to restore power to those to whom the government belongs, to the people, to no one else, to disband such a council where there has been a change of government without a choice and to call new elections. Is that what the government wants to do? No, because if she wanted to, then she'd change Article 3 of this Law where it could be done. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If the government really wanted to abolish such a practice, its results, it would have disbanded these few councils where the government is now based on purchased mandates and would have called new elections in those midst. Will the government do that? We'll see what changes to this law will look like until the second reading. Will you enter the amendments in article 3, or will you continue to sell the fog like this, but that will test the credibility of this government, the credibility of my dear gentlemen in front of the voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54317	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54318	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I understand that a fellow Stazic hurts Karlovci because... Lost the election, HDZ received most of it, but it is not true that any trade agreement was signed there, because if you read that agreement between the party president who received most of the elections and councillors, it is the agreement on the work of the city council, and that councilman has not achieved any property benefit, and the problem is in the SDP, and you have shown it yourself because you have disbanded the entire organisation and have remained on a third of the membership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the problem in the Karlovac party has in its... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54319	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54320	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to do to correct an incorrect quote. The big public will remember Vukovic, Šporer, various names, so I don't think we remember the names anymore, we remember the cases, but the public will remember Mr. Nenad Stazic, who has been very good at swimming in all times, acting and demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54321	Thank you. I give you a warning because you have abused the Institute of Correction of the False Allegation, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Replica, the esteemed representative of Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to replicate very briefly in this section about Bukovic and Šporer, the Zagreb City Assembly. Namely, that story has its own sequel, and that story has its own epilogue. The HDZ really bought these mandates and spent those mandates, HDZ lost the elections, Šporer and Bukovic afterwards tried to re-sell to other parties and failed to do so and to the truth of the will then even every SDP councilman in the City Assembly of Zagreb had a price, the price was offered, but no one agreed to such purchase.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54323	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54324	You tell me she had this story of her epilogue, so you told him. Every story has an epilogue, you know, and Pintaric will have an epilogue in Sisak. He's today, he's lost the election, the citizens are clear in the elections said we won't Pintaric for mayor, we won't, we won't have him as mayor, we won't have him anymore. He's buying again, the mayor. Don't people like that think there won't be an epilogue? Do they think that such a term will last them for life? Do they think that they can make fun of the citizens of this country? Do they think that they can be so disdainful of the will of the electorate and remain unpunished by that same electoral body? It can only be a fool and they end up like Bukovic and Šporer.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54325	Dear Representative Stazic, I give you the notice in accordance with Article 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54326	I'll take that warning you gave me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54327	Because by your behavior you deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly using a variety of words. I'm asking you to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54328	I take that reminder with pride, Mr. Vice President, with pride because I want to say about Pintaric here what he is and I'm talking about, even if you give me 10 warnings about it. Pintaric's fate will be determined by voters in the next election, certainly because he will be recognized as a thief of their will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54329	You can express your opinion of Pintaric, but you can't say he's a fool, because it's not like this High House. Replica, the esteemed representative of Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since we have a fellow Stazić lecture here on morality, dignity, dignity, etc. and more honestly, I would ask him here since I wasn't, and I saw here, I found in the stenogram that this morning he said that the greatest achievements of the Croatian Council of Defense and exploits were the village of Admici, Stupni Dol, so crimes. I ask him if he stays on it? In order to know how to proceed in the Assembly, whether I'm going to call a psychiatrist for help or I'm going to press charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54331	Your Honor, you have abused the Institute of Replica, now it's not on the agenda. ... Yeah, but now there's another point on the agenda that has nothing to do with what you're talking about right now. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Oh, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54332	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54333	Don't pollemize between, I'm asking you to calm down a little passion and continue this discussion in a calm tone. The word has a distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54334	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Central State Office, Mr. Secretary, as far as I can tell, he's not interested in this subject, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, in many debates, there was something that I don't think was really the subject of today's debate. There have been many problems in local self-government, but it seems to me that here with the problem we have detected, which is immoral politicians at local level. In fact, in my view, the key problem is the failure of the Central State Office or better said non-functioning in principle and in accordance with the law, the operation actually more according to certain political instructions. This law has not been passed and is not proposed here to the Croatian Parliament as an expression of the government's love to solve the problem of non-functioning, therefore, and certain units of local self-government and trade mandates, but primarily this is a good brewer of maneuvers in order to publicly close the story of buying a mandate that primarily goes to the detriment of the ruling party. And that's definitely something this government is doing very well. So her pier is very good and her job and everything that stands specifically behind it is actually very bad. If this law were indeed an expression of the will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then today the law here would be slightly different, so it would be before us, and it would certainly ensure that several units of local self-government where the purchase of the mandate changed the will of the electorate would certainly produce new local elections, which is the most honest thing to do in this situation to resolve this immorality in a way that voters should be re-elected. The problem is that the Central State Office did not react in principle and in accordance with the law to the first such case, and then we only had cases that went down from Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Gorica, Sisak, Karlovac, Požeko-Slavon County. In fact, it is about where the elections failed to change their will through the purchase of council mandates, and in this way it was actually intended to take the lead in a particular local self-government. The problem, therefore, of these bianco resignations appeared primarily because the Central State Office did not react promptly but simply disobeyed many demands from local self-government units. Most likely, the Central State Office was deaf because it did not get the political green light to react. This confirms, for example, the last meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when Mr Palaric said at the session explaining the situation in some environments, said the example of Velika Gorica is pure to what the prime minister has stopped him and said a lot, we will discuss this later. That is why we asked Mr. Prime Minister in the current hour whether he intends to give you Mr. Palaric finally and politically green light to give an opinion in some areas and to respond to the people who have asked you to determine a job and give an opinion whether these units act in accordance with the law or not. I will only remind you that there are no less than four SDP requirements on your desk in Požega for the supervision of Požeko-Slavon County. You didn't answer any of them. If you can't give a positive answer you could have given a negative answer, but at least open the space that these people can still use the system institutions to get to what belongs to them under the law. You have not responded to several such requests from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, neither did you answer about Velika Gorica, nor did you answer about Karlovac. But here says my colleague Vidovic, in two hours you responded to Sisak. It's obviously very important who submits the report to you. I think the header is irrelevant, that it's a matter of content and that your primary task is to work in accordance with the law and according to the Constitution. That's what this shows you're not doing. And in the end, I'd like to say this. The fact is that there are no laws and there is no legal act that will protect us from immoral politicians, from immoral people who are able to pass in the elections on one programme on the list of one party and for a month it is sold for some money, for some place, for some, in any case some profit is behind it. Sell to another party and work on a completely different program compared to the one for which they received support from their constituents. However, the fact is that the SDP does not want to participate in all of this, and we have made it very clear to Mr Palaric if by the end of the month you do not resolve this situation with your own opinion and do not ensure the conduct of the elections in these units of local self-government, so Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Požega-slavonska and Velika Gorica in those situations where the SDP finds itself in the situation that, thanks to the party's mandate, the SDP will withdraw its own moves. However, you must also know that we will ask you to act according to the law and that we will seek your responsibility every time you do not respond and do not do what is prescribed by law, when you do not give opinions to people in the local self-government unit that they have asked for, when you do not monitor and when you simply go on a less-resistance line. This will all be done in order to restore confidence in politics in this country, because unfortunately in this country the most popular interest is the interest of politicians. We humans are perceived as immoral, dishonest, corrupt. Well, we're not all the same, I don't think so. We do not consider ourselves such in the SDP, and therefore we will contribute to changing the image of politicians and politicians. And another Mr. Vice President. Since there are some individuals in this Chamber who function like this at a very primitive level I will from now on all these sayings heard here in the hall tell the Croatian public to know who is sitting in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54335	Thank you. There's all kinds of screams from different sides. Obviously, she disagrees with you in some respectable representative Antičević-Marinović, so she raised the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54336	Replica, you should look in Anić's dictionary and see what the replica means. She doesn't mean disagree, not prioritize everything. It means both complementing and communicating with what is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54337	Basically, it's a discrepancy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54338	Well, in that sense, I'm replicating my esteemed colleague Milanka. A colleague of Milanka points out a request to Mr Palaric why he did not respond to four SDP Councilors' Club requests from Požeko-Slavon County. My colleague Milanka, here I speak to you directly. You're asking this gentleman a lot. He doesn't respond to such demands. Especially when it's in the SDP header. Because he's never reacted before, but never. He responds to the government and prime minister's request, but must be aware that the same employer will resist him when the critical mass, and it is very close to that to come that he will no longer be able to endure and violate his government's reputation. So already the public, your Office, Mr. Palaric, is no longer called an office but a state administration mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54339	Thank you. I ask that, that we have the integrity of communication in this House as this gentleman, he, to address with the name and last name and representatives and members of the Government or those representing the Government. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54340	So here's my colleague Anticevic and you said about me asking the Central State Office too much and that... Yeah, that I'm asking too much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I'm not asking too much. I'm just looking for one principled behavior. If it responds within 2 hours at the request of the HDZ, it shall also be requested to respond within 6 months to the request of the SDP. But I would also like the system to function in this country in such a way that it really is principled and fair. I must say that here it stands, therefore, when it comes to Požega County and their objections, 8, 9, 10, 12, so letters to any institutions from the Central Office to the police, to the State Attorney's Office, and that, for example, Mr. Kristian Kapovic, who was the head of the Vir municipality, because he rebelled against the spatial arrangement no less because of the debate held here in the Assembly by counterpart Brnadić from the HDZ Club, three times already the State Attorney's Office sent the police to his office and that the first firm closed at Vira under the new Law on State Inspectorate was the company of Mr. Kristijan Kapovic's father. So now let's talk a little bit about how the institutions of the system actually put themselves into function not really chasing crime. I'm afraid you've put yourself in a position to silence certain individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54341	Thank you. The word has the Secretary of State Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54342	About freedom of journalism in Croatia, interpretation and seeing journalists I will not speak here. You've got all kinds of reporters writing for whom, on whose orders we'll do it, that time will show. Well, in Požega, it's all clear. There's been an investigation into the charges that the resignations were falsified and we've asked the State's Attorney's office to brief us on the results. We have informed that we are waiting for the results of the end of this procedure so that we may proceed further. Oh, there's so much I'm not going any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54343	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54344	You, Mr. Vice President, told us to take care of our dignity. Well, you didn't warn me, I would have corrected Mr. Palarić who here gives the lesson and the media, so when his office calls the office a mess, not an office then he Finds fit, corrects, corrects, where he says that we have all kinds of journalists and you keep silent, we have all kinds of heads of state administration. [[Employment: Correction of an incorrect, correction of an incorrect quote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54345	I give you a warning because you have abused the Institute of Correction of an incorrect allegation. You haven't corrected an incorrect quote. Let's move on. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54346	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government with the final proposal of the law. As the practice puts it, as not only does that practice in the bodies of units of local and regional self-government but also administrative practice and court practice have come a real proposal at the right time that we in the debates in the Assembly have an educational impact on the council, creating a high standard of conduct. It is therefore good that this bill goes to another reading. It is therefore good that in this debate we really try to find what are the possible norms and provisions that would daily harmonize laws, the system, create good practice because what the Central State Office really does is commendable. Fast, expediently working, based thoroughly on laws and regulations. I've heard the predecessors, they're calling for their local environments. In Split-Dalmatin County, there have been cases not as drastic as here, which really shows about the stability of municipalities, cities and the county itself, but also what shows that the office is really working by law and regulation in principle not looking at either side or side of the third party but is only handled by the reason for raising standards in behaviour and I believe that we should also be ahead of that in order to actually tell those states that have a hundred, two hundred years of state and that have developed state administration and local and regional self-government that we are able to overcome it in record time, and we are showing it during this sixteen-year period. But then we had different systems and I believe that this should be a contribution to every citizen's public not only to the party, but also to ordinary citizens that we want to raise the standard high and what cannot be prescribed is a member of local self-government. There will always be certain defectors but they are the only ones who can sanction the parties. When he has moved from one party to another, he will go from the other party to the third party, and he will surely fall. To be a competitor, a candidate for any serious political one, let alone municipal, city, county, or god forbids parliamentary duty. So I encourage, I encourage the Central State Office to continue to pursue good standards by acting by law and regulation as it has been so far using parallel representations of countries similar to its structure, population, surface area with the Republic of Croatia. We need to give him clear indications, guidelines, and in this debate, because without local self-government, local communities cannot think about decentralisation, and the most important thing is to create the responsibility of every citizen that he is the guarantee of his own development, starting with home councils, local boards, city halls, municipal councils, city councils, county councils and this honorable House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54347	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to, and I actually have to correct my colleague Peronja's claim that this debate has an educational impact on the council members of the local regional self-government that they are no longer doing so. There is no way we can do that, because the council members can now only watch Mexican soaps on the Croatian TV programme, and not this debate or it is inaccessible because there has been no transmission long ago, and as far as the debate on the proposed law itself is concerned, unfortunately, we do not have an educational effect on them not to do so. We're just educating them how they'll still be able to do it but for a far higher price by blackmailing, submitting and withdrawing resignations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54349	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54350	Mr. Vice President, I don't know how much it makes any sense today to talk about these things, because as I've heard from these recent discussions of a few friends here, this is the least we can do about the proposed law, so I feel one of the labeled recipients here as well. So, if I were to go back in the same way then I would say that I was labelled by frustrated persons or representatives in this House, but I am particularly irritated by what Mr. Stazic, Mr. Pecek, Mrs. Anticevic said here. Almost everything went to some sort of match with the Croatian Democratic Community. We know who the merchant is, and I will tell you now at all in Zagreb County we didn't talk about things we had to talk about, because there really was a trade, but not by HDZ, but by SDP and HSS. Is trade if you make up one more post of vice president, one more place under the mayor, if you make up three professional places in the headship and you get all those who bought it. Is that the market I'm asking? What's that? It's a clean store. In addition, I have an objection to the state office because the establishment of Zagreb County was carried out in an illegal, illegal manner. We filed a request, but I accepted the explanation given by Mr. Palaric. We made a request six months ago and we haven't received an answer until today and we don't come to a session of the county assembly that isn't legally established thanks to the SDP whose representative is the president and the mayor who is HSS's. Not because of the hate and today I didn't want to talk to you in a letter of hate. When he was talking here, let's think about it. Is that the height of the parliamentary representatives? Do you wonder if someone's telling us we're thieves, that we're this, so we're all being bribed? I didn't want to talk about it, but I was moved by it. When Stazic spoke beside the living former president and declared him evil. I ask the question, is the Stazic the concept of hate? Well, that man can't live long. He'll get sick. I'm sorry, he'll die, he's not happy. They're unfortunate people. But I just wanted to say this. Another reading is a good thing, because I think it will be difficult to pass a law that in a satisfactory way will ensure correctness, morality, and transitions will always be. That's for sure. We don't even need to label all people immediately because of what they're crossing. Who among us hasn't changed in our lives? Who among us has not changed our attitudes and opinions about certain things in life? Thus, much can happen. And that's what they are and the man has reasons, and that's why I'm here to be truly individual responsibility, but to go and individually have the right of one representative to represent his own opinion so that not all clubs are in their uniforms. Now, I've been thinking a lot more, but emotionally excited about the inaccuracy, about the demeaning of this House and all of us, instead of talking about ourselves, we're calling each other out. So what's this world gonna think of us? Instead of really discussing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54351	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54352	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, Reverend Pasecky has made several incorrect findings here. I'll only stay for two. One is that the SDP bought mandates in Zagreb County and that is certainly a great lie and there is nothing you can justify. It can only be said here in the context of the attack on the SDP to defend the HDZ in Zagreb County and its behaviour towards SDP council members and open bids. We also know the prices offered. On the other hand, when you say that SDP invents deputy mayoral seats and thus buys, you are sorry, Zagreb County still has two deputy mayors as it had in the past and in the previous term. The third thing, the establishment of Zagreb County has indeed been six... /The speech room is off, so it is back on./... with Mr. Palarić, there is no answer. I suppose it's really my assumption that there is no answer because there are no illegal actions in that constitution, and the biggest truth is that you do not come to the Assembly of the Zagreb County you and other fellow MPs, but that you are taking compensation neatly from that assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54353	Thank you. Time's up. Don't argue. The word has a respected representative Marin Jurjevic. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The word has a esteemed representative, Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54354	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support the proposal's intention to try to better regulate the legal provision regarding councilman's resignation in the representative bodies of local and regional self-government units. I also believe that it is clear from the government's position, which is also a constitutional category, that the term of office is won in the elections and it belongs to a councilman rather than to a political party or coalition on whose list he was elected. It is clear to me that this whole story of ours, that every political party wants to secure itself from defects from its ranks, so that they are signed for that purpose and so on. The exchange rate, the balance of resignation, somewhere even the bonds, there's that. Or we have a situation where future council members sign statements that in the event of leaving the party they will settle so much money, we had a case in the Zagreb City Assembly in the last term. What is the fact that the change of sides has been since the start of democratic elections, and I am convinced that even any changes to the law will not be able to fully prevent it. They didn't have any other countries where the democratic tradition is far longer than with us, so neither did we. After all, we have had cases of defects not only in the local self-government but also in this House, so we have the situation of the previous Assembly calling on a debate in one political party and a new party was formed that had no electoral legitimacy, and with the aim of keeping the coalition headed by the government then... The fact that these crossings aren't immune to any political party, but we all scream when it hurts. [[You don't understand.]] When it suits us, then the defects are fine. Here we have a case for last term when a colleague of Trječević was removed in Petrinja, when a councilman moved to the party camp then it was okay. When fellow Vidovic lost power in Sisak the same way, it is a trade. Even indirectly, a fellow trader, alluding to his last name, accuses himself of trade. I think fellow Vidovic would have been better off if, according to his last name, he had been more psychic when he was putting together a list for the Sisak City Council, so maybe that's not how it would have gone. But the voter's will changes only by crossing from camp to camp. It also manipulates the council mandates of minority representatives, so the party replaces the council members of the minority people and the national minority, mostly representatives of the Serb national minority, replaces it with members of the majority people, then we no longer have a proportional representation in the city or municipal or county parliament, and then reunites with the national minority, and it is generally always from the SDP ranks. Who we now have a case in Sisak-Moslavina County that the party has deepened its ranks for three new mandates that have not been won in the elections. It's the same manipulation, and where there's political or any morals, let's think for ourselves. But despite all this that is happening in these several election cases, we should nevertheless conclude that it is not all so black because we have thousands of councilmen in municipalities, cities and counties who are responsible and correct in their duties and represent their voters who have given them confidence. But how do you completely prevent manipulations of the mandates themselves? Here I agree with my colleague Lesar, the interest in transitions will surely not completely stop, but surely go to waste when we have a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors. Because what's a fact, transitions tend to happen in the constitution of executive power. There we must certainly be careful and distinguish exactly the powers of the executive authority itself and the authority of the representative body so that this would not be a new cause for some potential future trade, and I believe that we are able to do so. Now allow something about this amendment itself. The existing law in Article 7 determines when a member of the representative body ceases his term of office, and we now say in the amendments when he resigns and at the latest 24 hours before the scheduled hearing, the beginning of the session itself, and then in the new paragraph we say that he can still withdraw it. I think it would be a better formulation in the same paragraph, that the councilor must personally resign in writing with the presentation of his identity card and it is valid if he did not personally withdraw it until the scheduled start of the session. I think this formulation would be more accurate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54355	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, namely the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, are actually intervened in Article 7 of the applicable law which regulates, i.e. giving an answer to the question when the elected member of the representative body ceases his term of office and before the regular four-year term expires. Of course, in that same article, there are also five other reasons for the elected councilman’s end of the term of office within the four-year term. In the opening part, I would like to emphasise the provision of Article 3(2) of the same Act, which literally regulates that members of the representative bodies have not called off, and their rights and duties begin on the day of the establishment of the representative body. Now, starting with the fact that the mandate reached belongs exclusively to an individual as a person, who has become a member of the representative body of the local self-government, the logical consequence of such a determination is that only an individual can resign. That it is a manifestation of his free will and that will must not be expressed in order to be valid under any coercion, defiance, or to be manifested by another natural or legal person. So it's a personal act. If we look at the resignation institute in that sense, then we have to ask the question of which, what kind of character is the so-called binco resignation? And whether the adoption of such documents as legally valid documents has taken place and is in practice the problem which the Proposer cites in terms of resolving or proposing these amendments and supplementing the Law. In my opinion, Bianco's resignation does not constitute resignation, especially in terms of interpreting the provision of Article 7 of the Law in question. This is about a situation where, at that moment, the candidate of a particular political party is obliged to give the political party the right, in the event of a mandate, or election, of a future election in the representative body of the local self-government unit, to activate the political party and give it the right to enter a date of subsidisation of such a resignation that does not correspond to the time of the declared or obvious will. This is obviously not about resignations in terms of the provision of the law itself and for the following reasons. The first is, at the moment the will of a person signing such a document has no mandate. So he's not yet a member of the representative body, he's already a candidate for a representative body, so he can't even step down to something that's just about to happen in the future. Secondly, he gives his resignation to the non-representative body, so in the body for which he is elected or will eventually be elected rather than in practice, therefore, to the political party. And the third reason I quote, the activation of such a document beyond the will of the one who thus expressed his will is not conditioned by the manifestation of the will of the person who resigns but the political party where the document is stored. In a broader sense, it is obvious that this is about an agreement between an individual and a political party. And regardless of the consent of the will, the agreement cannot be treated as a resignation within the meaning of the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government. In the electoral sense, it should represent a relevant fact, and only a valid indication of the individual's will to resign should result in the termination of the mandate and the fact that another candidate has resigned, as prescribed by the legal provisions. In conclusion, as long as in practice in any way we give the legitimacy of so-called. the resignations or bincos, agreements between the party and the individual based on the grounds of mandatory law, and not the electoral legislation, we will always have controversial situations after the election. Not only when establishing representative bodies, but also throughout the term of office. When this fact is added to the fact that a large majority of representative bodies operate in relation to the constitution of executive bodies, i.e. by the principles of the so-called coalition contracts, larger or smaller coalitions and most different coalitions formed, which are nothing but in reality the distribution of political power based on the results achieved, the logical consequence of such a relationship in society is not only the behaviour of the authorities beyond the intensification of electoral legislation and the will of voters. All together already results in situations where the electoral cycle is sometimes a farce or for the formation of political power and the ability to behave in power. Of course, all of this is unacceptable and, in connection with the electoral legislation, it really is necessary, firstly, to work out the institute of resignations, in a material and formal sense. The way it is supported, i.e. activated with precisely elaborated all the consequences of such a personal act. Secondly, it is necessary to specify and strictly develop the ways and options of the election and post-election coalition with the necessary affirmation of the institute of the relative majority of political parties or the coalition of political parties. In this sense, it is certainly, and in itself, a conclusion is made, on the acceptability of the direct selection of the mayors, mayors and mayors. Of course, with the obligation to adequately regulate the relationship between such elected unit leaders of the local self-government unit and the representative body. And at the very end, I'd like to conclude with that. It is about first reading, so I am the Law or amendments and additions to the Law are in the regular parliamentary procedure. I have no doubt that through the working bodies and through the solutions offered in all these discussions, they will find themselves in this sense amending Article 7 of law and an appropriate solution that will in the future eliminate or disable such situations and in this sense I have talked about. Of course, with my note that laws or laws absolutely cannot resolve all situations in life or in this segment of life. Because morality and relations in politics, the system of values cannot be regulated by the legal norm. This is a problem of regulating one other level that legal norm or law cannot regulate. It cannot be arranged directly, it needs some other elements, elements of democracy, elements of the maturation of those values in society that go to make things and anomalies that we have seen during the last local elections, although as exceptions, and not as a rule no longer happen in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54357	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54358	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of a respected colleague who refers to him as the Institute of Bianca's resignation. The law doesn't know the Bianca Resign Institute. The resignation is resignation, so there's no difference whether it's the resignation of this or that nature. The important thing is that the person who is authorized to resign is the person who signed it without coercion. Therefore, the law does not know what he is saying to the bianko resignations as well as the impeachable, irrevocable, the law speaks only of resignations, and when the resignation is arranged, the matter is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54359	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54360	So I fully support the first part of the debate of an esteemed colleague, the only thing I don't understand is why you didn't stand up for it in the Central Office of State Administration? It's obvious to you that you're in favour of what we've been saying in our discussions,... the law all clearly defined by the existing law and that there is absolutely no need to amend and supplement the law, and in particular not in a way that limits the time in which resignation can be given and especially not that the mandate can be returned by withdrawing the resignation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You simply had to advocate it to the Central Office of the State Administration and ask him to act on it. I really support you in this, and then it's a completely absurd law if we're going to change what it's about, and it's changing to regulate working time by trade and to say that the mandate you've lost can be returned by withdrawing your resignation, not by re-election that since these reasons don't exist to amend the law, then the law doesn't need to be changed or changed, but rather by changing it in a number of other elements and articles where this Law is either missing or unspoken or could be better defined. Therefore, it is true, everything is clearly prescribed by this law. The resignation, the term of office shall be lost at the time of the resignation, the term of office shall not be returned in any other way than the elections and there shall indeed be no other resignations of the Bianca or I do not know any resignations when the council member signs his resignation as a personal act, whether he has done so before the party president or in front of the public notary. There's a resignation in that moment. Here's the question why doesn't HSP mail all those resignations deposited with them in their party office.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54361	Replication response, distinguished representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54362	Dear fellow Mršić did not listen to my debate clearly carefully, so he did not understand it in that segment, and I rephrase it to him whenever I mentioned the bianko resignation I mentioned her so-called. or how we are, or how it is common, and through the newspaper, even uses that term from the Bianca's resignation. Of course, Bianca's resignation is neither intended nor defined by law. Essentially, in that sense, counterpart Kovacevic also abused the Rules of Procedure in fact by correcting my alleged something that I didn't even say. What I'm actually returning to you on your line is that it's obvious that in practice as to the interpretation of the institute of the resignations at which point it was tolerated, how it is verified, to whom it is stored, etc., so let's be honest and realistic that there is a whole series of problems in the implementation itself, especially when establishing representative bodies of the unit of local self-government. My proposal, and in the discussion of the concrete proposal itself, is that this institute is being elaborated, and since you are the head of the local self-government unit, you know best how this can be specified from the system to go towards the public notary, to more precisely determine in a way that is in place, when it enters the representative body of the local self-government unit and actually enables the holder of the mandate to freely and manifest his free will. And why didn't I intervene with the Central Office of State Administration? Well, my colleague, we have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act which is in the first reading, so I guess your and my debate are also serving that in one critical way, in one analytical way we try to point out better solutions if there are better solutions than the attached ones and here I have concluded the debate, I have no doubt that from the second reading there will be a crystallization of better solutions and that will remove all of those gaps or doubts that would arise during or the application of this concrete solution that is proposed. That is why there is a regular assembly procedure, and I think that by the second reading it will be crystallized exactly the kind of solutions that we actually had in this sense will remove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54363	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54364	Well, Mr. Vice-President, an esteemed colleague has abused the Institute of Replication in accordance with Article 209 because he has responded to me as well and then attributed me to the fact that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, and you have the authority to determine whether I am in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you could have also been in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54365	Okay. Let's not be such a pain in the ass, and you really haven't corrected the incorrect assumption because he said he was so-called. Bianca's resignation. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Tomljanović did what I did, using the reasoning of this Law, we started calling these resignations Bianca, which the government simply asked us to use this term, but counterpart Kovacevic later corrected it and he's right. Namely, there are no Bianca resignations, there are falsified resignations, and all these resignations are actually forgeries because on them are entered the second date of the signing day, because every date before the constitutive council sessions can't be resignation because it was written then at a time when this man was not a councilman. So I'm not following, and I wasn't in the vault of HSP's main apartment, I'm talking about the resignations that have been entered, and I don't think about you at all because you're not so important to me that I keep thinking about you. And secondly, why do I think it's not necessary to change the law? Because falsifying the document is a criminal offence and all those who participated in making it impossible for the councilman to perform his duty, and who denied any resignation, have also committed a criminal offence. That's what this is about. So, we don't apply the Penal Code, so if we don't do it in the future, we won't solve the problem if you understand me. I appeal that the question of the responsibility of those who have done so far is the most effective dam since the future. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54367	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54368	Well, a very short response to the replica. I think in the first part of the replica of colleague Lesar has actually repeated what I was talking about in my introduction about the institute again I will speak so-called. Bianca's resignation as it's all true to talk about all these types of resignations that are later activated when representative bodies are built up and we all know very well what they're talking about. My colleague Lesar, I am indeed in favour of such solutions that all perpetrators of criminal offences are brought in, of course, what is said, justifies that they are being prosecuted and that any person who commits a criminal offence of course is liable and that criminal sanctions are applied to it. But we're here in the area of electoral legislation and I'm here with criminal legislation or sanctions or a threat to sanctions wouldn't really talk about them. I think we can have a better solution when it comes to the arrangement of the resignation institute as one of the reasons, or when the mandate ceases the elected member of the representative body elected for four years. The resignation may, in that way, be elaborated more precisely by law supplementing Article 7 in such a way that we have clear situations at all those moments of adhering to the resignation resulting from the termination of the mandate of the concrete, so that the councilor of either the county, municipal or city council as a elected member. And I don't see why this proposal and in this sense we wouldn't support the kind of proposals that go in that direction because there's no amendment and an addition to criminal law in front of us, it's going to come into its own procedure, but it's just the amendment and the addition that regulates the law that regulates these election processes. And you know, I also agree that in the application of the rules there is a misapplication, that, in a sense, those clear or clear provisions of the law are not implemented, and of course it should be sanctioned. That's where I agree with you. But I cannot agree with you in your thinking that this law, if possible and the law itself, produces in practice some ambiguity. Of course we can, at the very end of the line, it's our job and the task of trying, the law is in regular procedure, to find the best possible solutions at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54369	Thank you. This is what we ended up doing this week's session. Continuing Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. It's time for the honourable representative of Velimir Pleša. There's a vote at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54370	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. A few notes before that. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government is now under discussion. There are still a decent number of MPs and advocates who have come forward for a debate under this bill. In the meantime, Mr Palaric, the Secretary of State of the Central Government of Central State, asked for an expert opinion on the handling of the bianco resignations and this expert opinion of the Constitutional Law Department, and I received this expert opinion that the term of office belongs to the council and that it is against constitutional and legal law that anyone other than the councilor is available to do so. Mr. Secretary of State, you have announced that, accordingly, you will propose to the government the disbanding of the representative bodies of the City of Velika Gorica, Požega-Slavon County and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. In view of this debate that is under way with this Bill proposal and this position, the Court of Constitutional Rights of your opinion and the Government's announcement, please provide an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54371	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government adopted in 2001 was laid down, still in force in which the council member's term of office ceases if he resigns on the date of delivery of written resignations in accordance with the rules on delivery laid down in the General Administrative Procedure Act. The basis of this law also created the administrative practice that the resignations were arranged regardless of whether the councilor agreed to it or not. This has created several units of local self-government problems, therefore taking into account the consequences of such acts, the government has proposed several initiatives. One amendment to the law that is before us, which we are discussing, which guarantees that this will no longer be repeated, where the Government has expressed its position that the term of office belongs to a councilman and that no one in his name can take that mandate apart from his will. To check what science means, and this government respects the opinion of science, we also asked for the opinion of the Department of Constitutional Law in Zagreb, and this department confirmed our principled position that the term of office belongs to the council. Therefore, we in the government considered the opinion we had received. The Prime Minister insists that the government be principled in all matters, including in these matters, and we will not maintain representative opiates that have provided the majority or most of the state with the opposite legal understanding of science and the legal position of the Government that has been expressed in the interpretation of this law. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will propose to the government the disbanding of representative bodies, the appointment of commissioners and the calling of new elections to resolve in principle political crises in certain units of local self-government. I believe that this attitude of the Government and the Office will affect and that the future debate will be more moderate and principled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54372	Thank you. So, we should expect that today or tomorrow at a cabinet meeting when the Secretary of State proposes it and ever supports it, and the Prime Minister, that there will be disbanding representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government that the Government will assess as not in accordance with legally elected mandates or illegally withdrawn mandates. We're going to a debate. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54373	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, ladies and gentlemen. Here after four hours of debate on Friday and all that we could hear today we begin a session with a follow-up and a new moment which we have also witnessed ourselves and the opportunities to see these days through the press, which is the opinion of the Department of Constitutional Law in Zagreb. For this very reason, I hope that this part of us MPs that we stayed for debate during today will, however, be more moderate in some way and say calmer and more constructively debated than it was on Friday, which was apart from the wonderful exceptions in the individuals of individual club representatives or individual debates, two, three who spoke from the point of view of the profession and how they thought it was necessary to resolve this situation and to give concrete and constructive suggestions, is only giving us the opportunity to hear and hear about trade, as it was trade time, then we could hear that it was some kind of even rude illusions on certain last names. I don't think it was in any way comparable to the function of a representative who here in this honorable House we all want to behave. It has proved to be such an example, such an argument simply simply makes it known enough truth that there are individuals, there are people who are on one side of the mouth full of the rule of law, but that they do really nothing or too little to do in order to give respected legal provisions developed in legal and sublegal acts. It is clear to me that there are also politically opposite views, that there is also a political stage for us to oppose each other, but it is not clear to me that there are groups of MPs, individuals who just need a story about the rule of law to make the best use of leftover holes in legal legislation. And now, while the government again proposes one fire measure, one only part to solve this problem that we have witnessed during these recent months can even be said, and especially in the last few days, instead of taking advantage of this opportunity and making as many constructive suggestions as possible about whether not only this proposal may be resolved but also some other things until we adopt a more lasting and long-term model of electoral legislation in the Republic of Croatia, we have shown through this debate so far at least a simple indifference to this problem and just an interest in trying to offend each other and to bid here who is more trafficked under quotes, or who needs such a law more, or whether a change of this law is necessary or unnecessary at all. I personally want to be in that group of MPs who, during this period between two readings and what's good, I need to say right away that it is two readings that will allow us to make this matter more quality and proper, which will be regulated by these amendments to the law, I want to be part of those MPs who will raise their hands and hands for such legislation, which will ultimately lead to what we all think is necessary, which is that electoral legislation in the local self-government is changed in a way that comes to the choice of direct for mayors, mayors, mayors, means in local units that people are elected directly. I believe that there is really enough time left until the second reading in which the Institute of Resigns should elaborate precisely in both formal and material terms, and especially the way and time to activate the resignation with the precisely elaborated consequences of such a personal act. What we are familiar with today by the Secretary of State, in any case, is a theory that confirms only what we all knew, and that's already regulated by the Constitution and the current Electoral Law, which is that there's nothing to call the balance of resignation, that Bianca's resignation is one of the inventions that some have imposed, so we started talking about it as something that's talked about and in the law, and there's nothing in the law at all and what's most important, now everyone who has never understood it and who's otherwise thought about it must accept the fact that the so-called. Bianca's resignation is about something that's unconstitutional. And for this reason, if we want to take the slightest measure of abuse that we have witnessed in the past few days, I think that until the second reading, we are able to regulate this law in a way that this is going to be clearly put into the new text of the law, who and when it can resign and in any way work out as much of that institute as possible, and then approach a serious job that will lead to a more likely better and more resourceful electoral system in local self-government, and these are direct elections. And even though the vast majority of my colleagues feel that in these direct elections there will be something revolutionary that will no longer be such or any of the situations that have happened under this law, we must also be sure that there is no law where individuals will not find certain holes in which they will be able to do those things that the law has never even thought about, so what the law requires, in any case, does not always have to be moral and vice versa, and I think that what is legal and immoral or what is morally and what is illegal we can discuss on any other occasion. So, in conclusion, I personally support this bill, with it going into second reading at the same time, and that second reading responds in a decoded way in that law, who, when and how can personally resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54374	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54375	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative said, quote, "That we have shown an inadequacy of the problem of selecting members of the representative bodies." That's incorrect. It is incorrect that we have shown inadequacy, and it is true that so far, that until now, the parliamentary majority has refused to directly elect the mayors, mayors and mayors to regulate it. I sincerely hope that this High House will soon correct that mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54376	Comrade Poirot, this wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote. There was a controversial opinion that was not even stated that the parliamentary majority rejected the Law on the direct selection of mayors and mayors. Replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54377	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, Plesha, was saying that the government is taking fire measures and what my colleague Poropat was saying, that we're immature. I must warn you that the crises in the elections and after the elections have been under way since the establishment of municipal and city councils, as well as the county councils. I can ask myself and you. Which prevented the government and the state office, after all, from making contact with the profession and science in the first case. Because this is what the president of this House and something and the secretary of state spoke of today, and it was us who warned from all parties that according to the Constitution it was inalienable council, parliamentary and any other mandate. If so, which it is, it did not need a fire measure, but it was necessary to strictly apply the Constitution and Croatian laws. Whether there was a will or not to become a will, now that we've forced the matter to absurde, it's now going with a fire measure. And that's why, it seems to me that some of us should withdraw some of the conjecture for everything that's been going on in this area so far. Is this the State's Office, is it someone in the government who suggested such decisions, then. However, the very amendment to the Law seems to me that this moment is unnecessary. The constitution as the Constitution is very clear. A fellow Jarnjak casts, so the Constitution is the supreme law in this country. Therefore, if the parliamentary mandate is said to be inalienable with parallelism, it is also a council mandate. And it didn't take a lot of shouting, a lot of strenuousness, maybe a little bit more correctness, and maybe a little more so that sometimes it needs to be by its own party party party, by its own party colleagues, to fire up if they're doing something that's inappropriate. And that's hard sometimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54378	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54379	I have to answer. First of all, it wasn't my debate that went in the direction that I was even talking about us being out of line for this kind of... I said we were colleagues who discussed the debate Friday, not the election legislation that it is now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's first and foremost now. The second thing, of course, was clear to everyone, almost everyone, and they all advocated that the council mandate was the property of an individual, not the party, and that it was necessary to consider the profession. I don't know, you have to ask the State Office, which is why that opinion was asked after a month, why not before? But it's better, I say, and at this point that we've got it so that there won't be any more obstacles to anyone remembering to talk about the binco resignations. Because look, those binco resignations came from here, they came from in this assembly, they came from our story. We started talking about them, and that was the most talk about them. They're not written anywhere. And they spoke well of colleagues, and I support them, those who said and in a debate Friday if the matter of that binco resignation is at all one thing we need to talk about. Now, after such an interpretation of the legal profession, I hope no one will discuss it anymore in a way that will say that Bianca's resignation is or is not. Bianca's resignation is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54380	Another replica, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54381	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I agree with the part of the presentation of an esteemed colleague that these are palitative measures. They're really paliative measures because the main question remains. So we're solving this part, and we're not solving what's worst, trading in terms of mandates. Are we going to solve the trade with mandates? This is all dusting in your eyes. The problem is trade in terms of mandates. So this is the kind of solution we allow to trade in terms of mandates. In fact, we encourage her, and we do small things to others. Regarding this and the opinion of the Constitutional Law Department, do you remember the opinion of the same cathedral when she said that money was not property. The same department said in one case in 97 or 98 that money is not property. Is the money property or isn't it property? So, according to them now, if they stick to that solution then that means trading mandates is allowed and morally. So what are we talking about in this country? Well, the problem is trade in terms of mandates. In all three cases, it was a clean trade of mandates. No, lack of legal regulations. Let's work out whether or not we're going to stop the trading of mandates, and let's not deal with demagogues. The problem is trade with mandates because it is the strongest form of twisting the voter's will. And in the Constitution, Article 74(1) is not about council mandates, but only about parliamentary mandates in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54382	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54383	Of course, counterpart Kovacevic said the problem with trading is mandates. But I am convinced that such trade with mandates, any legislation will not prevent it. No measure will be able to prevent it since after the election, in whatever way they are led, whether directly, whether they are as they are, and again it will be fully clear that the term of office is owned, conditionally stated in the possession of an individual rather than a party. And this individual can work with him and dispose of him as it happens in other countries where direct elections are held. If we talk about it the same way that people go from party to party or other option and now it's called trade somewhere, somewhere it's called a party-to-party transition. But I'm saying, it's very difficult for us to find this kind of legislation and, in general, in the electoral legislation, the possibility of stopping this and that kind of trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54384	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54385	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, this is the second day we've discussed this bill, that is, this issue. I think it is perfectly clear to all of us that the events that have been happening on the political scene of Croatia for the past few months or that I should be more specific. So, more specifically, after the local elections were held in the eyes of the Croatian public, they completely undermined the reputation of both political parties and politicians. And without any exaggeration, it can be said that, thanks to all these events, the Croatian political scene has reached only the bottom. Some politicians have, in the right sense, turned into commercial travellers who achieve their primary goal by offering and demand methods, which is to be in power at all costs. In order to achieve this objective, they shall reach out to all possible means, and they shall not care whether those funds comply with the legal or moral principles. The government had all that was happening in certain counties and cities or municipalities and had first observed and had a wise silence, yet it did react. What was actually going on? With this variety of combinations, the electoral losers became electoral winners and that everything was expensive and even more tragic, all justified by the voter's will, so I think the voters must have made their position and will very clear in the elections, and then the politicians or rather some politicians thought that this clearly expressed will of the voters could still turn to their own advantage and get their hands on the authorities, and now they convince the citizens that it was their will. After the last local elections, we have enriched our political practice with some new categories, so we have been given bianko resignations or whatever we want to call them, we have received security guards who have become an integral part of individual councils or congregations. So if the government hasn't responded to the so-called. Bianca's resignation and she hasn't called a new election in those environments I won't mention at all what environments it is, I won't even mention the political party because I just want to talk about appearances as such, and not about individual actors. So if it hasn't already responded to Bianca's resignation, then it's really unacceptable that the government, or the Central State Administration's Office, has not responded before to those really ugly scenes where security guards provide certain stakeholders with power to retain power. I believe that such methods are extremely inappropriate for a democratic and civilised society because this violates the basic principles of democracy. And then, as the first response of the Government to all that was happening, we received the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government consisting of two articles. Article 1 specifies the manner and timing of the resignation, and it is said that the member of the representative body shall cease the term of office prior to the end of the regular four-year term if he resigns at the time of receipt of the written resignation no later than 24 hours before the meeting of the representative body is held, and that the full wisdom contained in this proposal of the law may be withdrawn at the latest until the start of the first session of the representative body. First, the way in which the resignation is applied to the council's term of office is already clearly regulated by the current law in Article 7(1), so why do I need these amendments to the existing law, and secondly I do not understand why the deadline for resigning is 24 hours before the meeting of the representative body, and why should the councilor not resign in the sitting itself? Furthermore, these amendments to the law give the possibility to withdraw the written resignation until the start of the first session of the representative body. I understand that we can all change our attitudes, we can change our thinking, but that in just a few hours someone is going to drastically change their attitude that doesn't seem like adult responsible people. Well, I guess everyone had a good look at that decision before signing their application statements. It seems to me that this way opens up space for some new manipulations and different combinations. The question that I am being asked is, will the adoption of this Law really prevent the trading of council mandates in the future and thus play the will of the voters? Personally, I believe that the desired effect of adopting this Law will not be achieved and that I agree with colleagues who say that there is actually no law that will completely eradicate this truly ugly phenomenon. The only way to bring these phenomena down to the minimum is to adopt a Law on political parties which should strengthen sanctions against parties, councilors and politicians who resort to such unfair actions, so when we create conditions for the individual who, for the sake of various personal interests, for the sake of obtaining personal benefit regardless of the form of this benefit, is to fail the trust that he or she or the political party to whom he or she belongs in the elections when he is publicly stamped and disabled by further policy-making, I think that everyone will well consider whether he or she will engages in any political trade. This also applies to political parties. The criminal sanctioning of individuals and political parties participating in political trade should also be seriously considered. I don't think that without such rigorous measures, it's going to end up with these bad phenomena on our political scene. In addition, political work needs to be strengthened, political parties are primarily responsible for putting moral and responsible people on election lists who will be able to resist all temptations and various tempting offers. And lastly, I welcome and I am glad that the government eventually decided on what I think is the only possible solution, which is to call a new election in all those areas where it came to power in these least said strange and immoral ways, but once again I believe that it should be reacted much earlier because there is no news that the mandate belongs to the council, it is regulated by both the Constitution and the law, and that, as some colleagues say, it refers only to the mandate I think there is no difference between the parliamentary or council mandate, that it is actually working on the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54386	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54387	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Before I move on to my debate, I would like to express my satisfaction that you, Mr. Secretary of State, will propose to the government new elections in some units of local self-government, that is, as you said Mr. President in Požega-Slavonska, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the city of Velika Gorica, and that is in fact in line with the opinion of the profession that the mandate belongs to the councilman, which we have also said in the SDP all along. I just don't understand why you, Mr. Secretary of State, are not going to propose new elections in all units where it has been manipulated by mandates like that. in Sisak or Drenovci Municipality, not to mention all other units of local self-government. As this bill of law is short, I think my debate about it will be very brief. In the basic issues proposed to be regulated by this Law, the Government says that an institution is being introduced into the electoral system to withdraw written resignations to the council mandate in the representative body. Furthermore, in the consequences that will arise under the adoption of this Act, the government says it will prevent the possibility of supplying so-called. Bianca's resignations to the council's office beyond the will of the elected councilman. In practice so far, such resignations have been signed in advance but without a date or binco, and this has often been a condition for the candidate to come on the list at all. The one who activated and handed it over to the office of such a resignation had previously entered the date so they were no longer bianco anymore, but the councilman was in a position not to let him go to the council meeting because he was allegedly no longer a councilman and most often not knowing that his binco resignation was activated. But they ask that important issues that have been raised by looking at numerous defectors on the other side or phantom resignations of councilors resulting from the purchase of mandates, various blackmails and pressures on councilors. First, how can the councilman resign if one who, without his knowledge and will, resigned on his behalf and at the same time organised to place security guards at the entrance to the premises where the session was held with the task of preventing him from entering. Although we have seen such situations in recent months since the last local elections in the meetings of many representative bodies, the Proposer does not mention or sanction such proceedings either by this or any other law. It seems to me that the only provision for resigning would personally be a real contribution to reducing these phenomena, even though we would not solve the problem of buying, pressing and blackmailing councilmen. That's how we come up with another important question. What's the institute for resigning if the councilman personally resigned. Such an option would not even be necessary because people on candidate lists, and especially elected council members, are old enough and serious enough to play with their own credibility and dignity. And I join once again to all those who think that the fundamental problem is trading mandates and not bianco resignations. I therefore conclude that there is no real desire for the promoter to really change and to sanction phenomena that have occurred in more counties, cities and municipalities in recent months, but only to try to throw dust in the public eye. Finally, we could see for ourselves during the current morning at the beginning of this session when questions were raised on this particular topic. That's why I won't support the attempt to manipulate the public and this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54388	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54389	Thank you, Mr. President. So I want to correct an incorrect quote and he was really often mentioned here, but now he's been said by a colleague. She said this way, I quote, "when will you prevent the manipulation of the resignations" and, for example, listed in the town of Sisak. It's incorrect. In Sisak, there was no manipulation of the resignations. In Sisak, two SDP councilors were dissatisfied with the behaviour of Mayor Vidovic's authorities in favour of his resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54390	Second correction by Honored Representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54391	My esteemed colleague said it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54392	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54393	Thank you very much. Namely, my colleague hurt her rules of procedure because she wasn't correcting my incorrect claim. Namely, I have here the exact text that I have said, and at no point did I ask why there will be no elections in Sisak-Moslavina County, so my colleague corrected my opinion rather than an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54394	You're not colleagues. Comrade Perman, your opinion has not been corrected. You made one claim about Sisak, the representative denied it with another claim, and that is the correction of the incorrect allegations, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... Dear representative Nikola Sopčić corrects the incorrect allegations. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54395	Thank you. A respected colleague said the SDP has repeatedly advocated the position that the mandate belongs to the councilman. That's not true. We have exactly the case of Great Gorica when the bianco resignation was activated but at that time it corresponded to the SDP, so there's the SDP he supported to retain power in that city.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54396	Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I have absolutely nothing against new choices, but I won't support this law because this law doesn't really change anything. Because here it says: "The consequences that will result from the adoption of this law will prevent the abuse of laws by individuals or political groups with the aim of blocking the work of representative and executive bodies in a unit of local or regional self-government, i.e. changes in election results." It does not protect at all any changes in election results, and this has proved that we were the only ones who were actually the only ones to protect against any change in these election results, so I specifically mention the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. There, voters gave Croatian foreigners the rights of four councilors. So, voters wanted the Croatian party to have four council members. The Croatian party of rights has prevented one councilman from taking the mandate to the other side, from changing the election result. So I don't know why such a hack has opened up on the Croatian side of law because it's obvious that only where the HSPs, where the HSP problem is, is only there, are the elections. We're all really calling on the voter's will. Well, we've protected that voter will, but now it seems to be punishing us and calling us all over the paper. I just feel like this is a kind of mobbing because I can't open the paper to not attack HSP. So Mr. Lesar says on Friday it's about the binco resignations that it's a fake and it's a forger's signature because the man who said ten times he didn't sign that he wasn't trusted. So we're all lying, one man telling the truth. Or when the killer kills someone and he also says he's not a killer, that he didn't kill. To him it is believed, another cannot be trusted. I think it's a clean open hack on the Croatian party of law. The central state office addressed the cathedrals and now in February. It happened in the eighth, ninth month. Then why didn't it work out if it didn't bother anyone, but suddenly now. In addition, I can only mention that the Croatian Party of Rights neither gave Croatian territory nor gave its generals, nor participated in criminal conversion and privatisation. Just because we're growing up, because we're strong, some people don't like it and the HSP has opened up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54398	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54399	Thank you very much. Well, I'd actually start with who the mandate belongs to. Here, I must say, it's not really clear to me that it's taken us all this long and this long to determine who the mandate belongs to. I think it is clear from the positive acts, the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because at least it is clear to those who know how to read it and who read it because that is not the case, that the council member does not belong then probably should not ask the party for the Bianca resignation that this mandate belongs to someone else or to the parties but could actually withdraw that mandate in any period. However, this phenomenon of crossing, not to say trade from party to party at both state and local level, is not since yesterday or several days ago. We have actually been facing this problem for years and probably no law, and no decision will be able to prevent it. But there's something else. If that cannot be prevented by law and decision, it can actually prevent the political party's will to put it towards it, according to the problem. Because you have a situation, we have now come into a situation to consider a few examples here and I'm glad that in these few environments elections will take place. However, even after this term, we have had various situations. So let's say we had people before the election on one list. After the election, then the authorities moved from that list to the other side. So it's an obvious example, an obvious example of fraud, a con voter. Now watch out. The fact is that it is easy to prove that these people did not move to the other side because they liked the other party’s political programme more than five days in 15 days. So it's obviously a trade. Because you have another situation. If you do a detailed analysis of those who left one block and moved to another block. So always those who leave one block go to another block. Let's never say those who are unhappy with the situation in one block when they leave it did not remain independent but always approach the other. That's interesting. So it's obvious that this is about different, different types of trade. There's, there's not just money, there's a variety of different offers. Let's say 3 years ago in Trogir, the mayor of SDP, elected mayor of HDZ, was appointed at the same session. What happened? One, the SDP mayor's councilman refused to help hire his wife in kindergarten, but let's just say HDZ did it. And right away, that's what happened at that session. The next day, in fact, that councilman's wife was employed in kindergarten. Now the question is how do you sanction it? Legally very difficult. But politicalally, it can be sanctioned. So I'm thinking, in fact, that with this law, we're not getting anything. That we don't need him. If, if the principle is established that such disputed situations will go to elections, then such a law is not disputed. And if it is not disputed that the term of office belongs to a councilman, and it is not, and if resignation is an individual act, an individual act. But for me, the question is, who's to blame for the fact that in this time of year this concentration is actually this nonsense? Because I call it stupidity. I'm responsible for saying it's a central, central office. Why? Well, for a simple reason. If the man at the head of the state office says, "Ask the prime minister for this problem," and he can't give an expert opinion it's obvious that there is no role to play here but has a role, but has a role in politics. And that's, that's actually the whole problem for me. You can't actually wait for one situation for a report from the State Office for a month, two days, and in another situation you get it, you get it right away. I think, in fact, that both the political parties and the whole purpose of this debate in my opinion is that political parties would actually have to withdraw all of the conjecture from these events, let's say in a certain way, both this Law and this debate. I'm ending it in a way that I think that we, that we don't need this law at all and that it would be best to pull it out of the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54400	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lucin said, "We're not getting anything by this law." It's not true that this law won't get us anything. This bill, however, makes it difficult to move the councilman and, nevertheless, partially difficult to trade in terms of mandates.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54402	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54403	I am correcting, correcting, in my opinion, the completely incorrect assumption that the conduct or failure of the Central State Office is a consequence of stupidity. Nonsense means doing bad things out of ignorance. I claim that the Central State Office acted and did not act in all disputed cases with knowledge and full awareness, which is in order to preserve the power of one political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54404	Third Amendment Honorable Representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54405	A respected colleague said, in fact, he asked a rhetorical question who was responsible for this inflation of transitions? And he claims it's the Central Office. That's not true. So the Central Office did not draw up an election list of SDPs for the City of Sisak from which council members moved to the second camp.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54406	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54407	... be involved. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] So I'm starting again with the same story that this is actually so high that it turns out that, I don't know, 50% of the municipalities, cities and counties are this kind of problem. In almost six hundred units, it's just here in three, four, five cases where this kind of thing is on fire, burning these crossings, all of what we're talking about. Me, there's a lot of mention here of a change in voter's will. I believe that our voters do know and watch the lists they vote for and that each one chooses, I suppose each proposed candidate also has a number of voters. So, I guess that number of voters is also being transferred further. And this looks pretty inconclusive... those statements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Councilman, look, the councilman can cross somewhere else where he thinks he's going to have a bigger effect. I don't mean material. I can understand the councilmen whose party after the election closes a strange coalition. Any similarity to existing cases is random. So a man loses trust in his own party. The electoral law must prevent small parties from selling their voice expensively, so it would not happen that the statutes, such as in Zagreb County, are significantly changed in order to be appointed by the third mayor and so on. Clear as a result of blackmail. The resignations should be irrevocable and delivered personally so that the councilman does not only find out at the session which day earlier that he resigned. I can also understand councilmen who resign but not parties who do not trust their candidates, but on the lists of candidates. It should also prevent manipulation and minority councillors, and it is good that the secretary of state went with such radical proposals, but can I ask myself what is the matter with Bakra or Zagreb County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54408	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54409	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues allow me to repeat another finding and claim that we have made several times in this House, but which is said even more frequently in the Croatian public, among the citizens. And it is a claim that can also be documented that politics in Croatia and political activity and the work of politicians are so compromised and that we have never enjoyed less trust among citizens and that we have never been more a source of dissatisfaction than we are today and that we are the source of feelings of impotence, fraud, or contempt when it comes to police, politicians in Croatia by citizens. We can document this with the fact that the voter's extremely high abstinence, and it is certain that this abstinence will be even higher after what is happening in Croatian politics especially when it comes to these local elections and what happens after that. We, as legislators, but also the representative body, I guess we have to take care of that. I agree entirely with the statements made here, but also to the general public with those who seek hard, hard, severe sanctioning all those who, as a politician and as behaviour in politics, have accepted vermin, immorality, corruption, trade and battle for their own personal breakthrough. A dozen days ago, the President of the Parliament will propose on the radio that the unconditional prison sentence of those found to have failed the electoral will and that they have defected and actually issued the will of the voters. I fully support the President of the Parliament in that assessment, but what we are doing today and what we are discussing today and these days is actually an opportunity to really deal with the real problem. We're here to discuss the false doubt to which the mandate belongs, and we all agree it belongs to the councilman. I would extend the thesis and say that the mandate belongs to citizens who have the right to choose and choose those who will represent them and represent them. I am not questioning the fact that, in this formal sense, we cannot support the situation of any bianco resignations, but that we cannot even support the state in which the council mandate is inalienable, but that it can be the alienating voter's will of citizens. I guess she's in first place. And what we are proposing and how we intend to solve this truly real problem, not this formal question. What we just heard from the head of the Central State Office of Mr. Palaric, unfortunately, makes me think about what I've heard in the past two months or three, from citizens and even honest and well-meaning people who told me, and why you don't buy those two and pay them more than they will pay or you don't buy a few of theirs. Would we consider that a skillful and good policy? Can we give legitimacy to such behaviour in Croatian political life. Mr. Palaric, in a way, gave the right to the people who told me, so you can get rid of their binco resignations. If we had made the bianco resignations of these two who fled to Sisak, today Mr. Palaric would have said it was a cloudy situation and went to the elections and to Sisak. This is how the message that was given was well done by those who did it, and those who weren't there, nothing will happen. I ask who will be the one to determine whether the councilors left and voted against the list and those with whom they were elected and received trust from citizens, as the colleague here will argue, and not by explaining how they would vote for those against whom they resisted and represented themselves as their political or not knowing what kind of antidotes in the election campaign itself. How do you explain that salto mortal? Because it's one thing to be dissatisfied, and one thing is to completely change your political attitude. I will propose an amendment to the proposal for this law for a second reading and announce that a solution is possible. For example, although I do not keep this small law behind Article 7 where resignations are determined and Article 7a. in which it would be said that if a council member, or a representative body, changes or leads to a change in voter's will, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia by law or by force of law is obliged to call in that representative body elections. In this way we would preserve the ownership of the councilman's mandate, but in this way we would also have sufficient clear protection against possible frauds of this type as we have in Croatia countless times. Sisak may have come to the public drastically because of the way the authorities were usurped by a group of councilmen. In this hall I claim, in this hall are the main psychics or the main psychics of the problems we face. Among the most important are certainly the Central State Administration Office. For example, just an example of Sisko, who is so close to me, confirms it in white. What is a small hour, Mr Palaric said was sufficient reason to come and say to this House that he is resigning without appeal, because what the Central State Office did in the case of Sisak city that there is nowhere else would have been sufficient. A group of councilmen without any insight into the real situation, in respect of legality, without any means whatsoever, have declared it completely illegal, completely illegal, legally elected by the authorities in the city, directly opposing the will of 45 thousand voters in the town of Sisak by confirming the headship and mayor of the very person the citizens said no to, we do not want that person at the head of the city. That's enough reason to ask or better yet for Mr. Palaric to resign for what his office did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54410	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54411	Thank you, Mr. President. So I have to correct a few incorrect allegations, so here's what I'm going to do with this first one. Citing the situation in Sisak, Mr. Vidovic said and said again that there were purchases of the mandate of two councilors. It was not the purchase of the two councilors' mandate but two council members in the town of Sisak from the SDP list gave their vote to the majority of councilors who demanded the mayor's vote of confidence. Secondly, it's incorrect that there was an usurpation of power. It is true that at the moment of handover, Mr. Vidovic did not want to leave the city's head office, there were guards who almost prevented most councilmen from entering, and I have to correct the incorrect assumption that it was not a group of councilmen, but it was the majority of council members in the city council of 32, 17 of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54412	Thank you very much. We have seven replicas. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54413	You mentioned the words of the President of the Parliament, which he said on the radio, on the Croatian Radio, I paraphrasise it because I listened to it, that it is unconditionally necessary to punish those who betray the will of the voters. I absolutely agree with that statement, with the President of the Parliament still saying that it can be counted if it is determined that they have received administrative councils, supervisory committees, etc. What I want to say here is that the government was directly involved in such things, specifically in Split, when two time-old Croatian party of pensioners ran to the HDZ with incredible speed, were in one coalition that was opposed to the HDZ, a coalition of the Split jire headed by the SDP, then the government rewarded it so that there were gentlemen, some of them, who, for example, put it in administrative, that the government made a decision, in the Administrative Council of the Port Authority in Split. So the government directly influenced that in Split, the rewards of those who led to the mayor being the man against whom 83% of the citizens of Split voted. I mean, I agree with the President of the Croatian Parliament who gave that statement on the radio, and I would like it to start to apply, because really while the government is not only a local level, local coalitions, local parties rewarding those who are directly working on the citizen fraud, while the government is working in Croatia, politicians will be at the bottom of the hierarchy scale and a negative role model not only for young people but for all honest citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54414	Replication response, MP Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54415	I can't say anything else but agree with what my colleague once again potentials. My point is, now it's Hitch Rhodus, Hitch Salt. It's one principle of speaking about what needs to be done, and one thing is to make concrete moves. This is where the winemakers sit. If we have a parliamentary representative sitting in Parliament, who was involved in such illegal illegal trespassing at the town hall. If we have her party who has not sanctioned such behaviour, if we have a situation in Sisak, not only did the council get boards and boards of directors, but they've operated heavily and materially hard and showed what happened to them within 15 days, so what else is there to prove. What else is there to prove? Any such case is counterproductive, you can see what it's really about in each case. It has nothing to do with politics and pleasure and dissatisfaction. It can only be about what Shime said, whether you indulged him or didn't, buying can be done by yourself and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54416	Another replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54417	Here is counterpart Vidovic and what Jjurjevic noticed, somehow and all citizens may have given at least a hint of hope as said by the President of the Parliament, that they should be obliged to respond to criminally those who trade at the will of voters, who have deceived Croatian voters and where it is quite clear, here are examples of what happened immediately with their property, i.e. their employment after either the subject of trade and met the demands on one side and on the other. So there's a crime of fraud, no one's ever answered. The Central State Office should also act on its own duty, except that it should act within the framework of its law, the application of the law relating to the office, also file criminal charges. The SDP club submitted nine criminal applications in Požega-Slavon County and submitted all information on the illegality to the competent authorities including the central state office. The central state office didn't react. Now we hear that a lifesaving news that has clearly not been known to the government so far, that the term of office belongs to the councilman. That's right. But it doesn't belong to him in the sense that he's free to do whatever he wants, cheat, steal, and that happens, and nothing happens in the sense of sanctioning. So I think it would just be moral, it would be logical after all that you just said, if you had a meeting in the government and I ask you if even the Prime Minister had told you that you had to work under the law and then, on behalf of that, because the argument a contrast was obviously not done so far, should the head of the central office resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54418	Third replica, honourable representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54419	Dear counterpart Vidovic, you are asking Mr Palaric to resign, but Mr Palaric is responding to the question of what he intends to do, ask the prime minister. It is not up to Mr Palaric to decide on anything, and to ask for his resignation in that sense may not be enough. It's the prime minister, the prime minister who makes the decisions. And as the Prime Minister decides, you see. The prime minister does not understand, in any way, that citizens in Sisak had a mayor named Pintaric, that elections were held afterwards, that the citizens would not say Pintaric. He was our mayor, he's no good as mayor, we won't. And they decided to put Pintaric away in the election. And then this same Pintaric, with some kind of purchase past the will of the citizens, becomes mayor, and the prime minister can't figure it out. If this Pintaric were there, while he said his own party was wrong with what he might agree with, that the same Pintaric is now the mayor of past the will of citizens. It's a simple fact. So give me your word, fellow Vidic. Is that so difficult to understand? That the Prime Minister can't understand. A simple fact, the citizens said "a", and "b" is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54420	The fourth replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54421	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Vidovic, which I fully agree with, said the mandate belonged to the councilman. And beyond that, the term of office belongs to the citizens. And that's undeniable. But what do you think, Mr. Vidovic, were the citizens of the City of Labin in the elections voting to support the SDP mayor by the HDZ councilor and whether it was a con voter. Because if that weren't the case, then HDZ and SDP would certainly have done a pre-election coalition, so the citizens would know who they're voting for. Not after 19.7% of SDP votes received with HDZ support... The city of Labin has the SDP mayor with the support of the HDZ councilman. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] Is this, Mr. Vidovic, an experiment of the HDZ and SDP coalition, or is it an experiment on the citizens of Labin? Please, for a moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54422	Replica response, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54423	First of all, I wouldn't, and I hope that's how you understood my argument. I wouldn't talk pro domo sua because that would put out all the key arguments for the thesis I've set here on the credibility of politics. Immoral, debauchery, thieving is not unfortunately the traits or characteristics of one political party alone. That's the first thing I'd do. Unfortunately, somewhere there's a policy that's supported, and somewhere there's an excess. When it comes to Labin, there's a different situation than the one you're comparing here right now. It's about the coalition, it's about party relations. In that case, it was not a word, therefore, within the same coalition. Is that coalition natural, similar, good, that's another thing. It's a matter of politics. This isn't about what we're discussing here. It's an attempt to replace thesis. So, I and Priory do not amnesty of neither the SDP nor any political party as fully protected from some forms of such behaviour. But the question is whether it is a party policy and whether we as political parties will stand behind such behaviour or whether we will judge it ourselves in our own parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54424	Honorable representative Damir Cain. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54425	I agree here with Mr. Vidovic that no one is immune from this political perversion. Neither HDZ, nor SDP, nor HSP, nor HNS, nor HSS, but certainly not IDS. She's unfortunately a general phenomenon. Even if the biggest political merchants let's admit at least to each other, they're so-called independent lists. However, the fundamental culprit of this political immorality, and we should acknowledge this because the existing Electoral Law, because it was adapted in 2000 to those parties who thought it would profit from it. You, Mr. Vidovic, told among other things that elections should go to where citizens are being deceived. And now I'm going to quote your mayor's statement in Labin, Mr Bruno Hrvatin, "The Voice of Istria", on January 27th, meaning 5, 6 days ago where he literally said, "The fact is that our headship is not yet complete as the fact that we are managing the city with the support of HDZ whose word is respected in our coalition." The mayor, former mayor, IDS candidate Tulio Demetlika received 45% of the votes, and you took it down just like that. We call it an experiment, in the world it's called hypocrisis, but we'll all agree it's a moral disaster. And if we don't talk about it in such an open way, it's going to happen in the future. However, I repeat, the main culprit of what we have today is the existing Electoral Law, although the same things, even worse by IDS, happened in 2001 when even Pula was lost because of similar principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54426	Replica response, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54427	Comrade Cain, I find it hard to believe that you really don't understand that there is something called a political relationship between different political parties. Whether you or not be the natural or unnatural support of the HDZ mayor of the SDP in Labin is your business. It's a matter of politics and political relations. It's a matter of morality, of trade and the purchase of councilmen has nothing to do with it. I guess you're saying that the support you had from HDZ is something that's self-evident, and if that's SDP support, then you call it political perversion. These are simply different situations and let's not confuse those two things that are, which have nothing to do with what's the subject of our conversation. No one ran, no one sold and no one bought anyone. And as far as I'm concerned, what you think has nothing to do with the story we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54428	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54429	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So I continue to present Mr. Vidovic to the voter's will. Let's interpret it, which is the voter's will. It was only in our case that it was clear because we went out on our own at all levels. We went on our own at all levels, and the thing was clear that they voted, and we know what the ballot was, first on the list, and it was written by the party. So it was undeniable for us that it was the voter's will in a way that they voted for the Croatian party of rights, they also voted for councilors, but for most they didn't even know who they voted for because his name wasn't even on the ballot. As far as the voter's will is concerned, if we want to protect it from trade, we could have half-opened lists from anything else, and then the German system would know who the voter would like to vote on. If we are to prevent trade from being given mandates, and you have had many examples here of how it can be easily claimed that it is a matter of trade mandates, we determine by law that in such places elections will be repeated, and those who have traded, this party cannot go to elections, nor can the councilman who was the subject of the trade. Why don't we give him a protection measure from 5 to 10 years of banning the election, and if that party repeats that second time banning parliamentary elections, unfortunately we'll have to do it all. And now the biggest problem you've been saying, I'm curious to know how the Central State Office is going to do in the case of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and everyone else, they've been making decisions for six or seven months, working. Is that what you've been thinking about? How is he going to do it now? That situation, is it all ineligible from the day you say it now? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How's he gonna decide that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54430	Replica response, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54431	Here's a short colleague of Kovacevic's. Well, I said now's the chance. Yesterday I hear your party president's announcement that he will make a decision at the main apartment to repeat himself, to vote and demand a mandate from citizens everywhere where morals are questioned, etc. This is what we can do for our political parties and I invite you in Sisak, together with everyone else, to resign and return the term of office to the citizens as you have announced, and I support that decision of yours, to let the citizens declare who they want and who they do not want to lead the administration in their city. I also support Sisak, of course, and all other environments, and so be the obligation not only of the HSP, the SDP, but of all other political parties to see what HDZ will now do in such a case.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54432	Honorable representative, last replica, Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54433	Mr. President. Mr. Vidovic, you have concluded that Sisak is a drastic case. On the other hand you agree that in Sisak there are two MPs, councillors from your list or three seeing that the government does not function successfully as you naturally vomit... But how do you explain the Carlovite gentlemen? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a councilwoman from the list of SDP, HSS, the HSS council hall before the government started to function, which won the elections and on whose program she was elected to the second camp. At the same time, two pensioners signed an agreement to go with the SDP coalition, but at the session itself, they changed things because they made a trade agreement that they had solved some of their problems and now, if there is a trade of gentlemen, it seems to me that there is where there is a trade agreement. If it's about morality in politics, then it's obvious here, and then in such cases it should go straight to the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54434	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54435	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The debate on the amendments and additions of this Law actually raises one basic question, which is whether you are against or are for it and are we all for manipulation or are we against manipulation? In the past 15 years, Croatia's policy has proved completely incompetent to establish clear democratic, electoral, coalition, sub-election, post-election rules of conduct. Recently, the ruling parties were able to justify it somewhat by war, painful transition, lack of democratic tradition and others, but they can no longer justify it with anything. The main challenges facing Croatia are that we can continue to tolerate the political alchemy of Croatian bipartisans, which has led to citizens completely losing confidence in politics and that we have an increasing rate of abstinent voters from the election. The Croatian party wants to restore citizens' confidence in Croatian politics, wants to introduce order, accountability and clear rules. Our model, I will call it and I will call it the irrevocable bianko resignations, made it possible to overcome the mandate and change the electoral will of the electoral body, in fact, and prevents trade in political and political prostitution. In fact, gentlemen of the store need at least two, one who sells or sells, or one who buys. The Croatian party of rights in these cases has neither bought nor sold, and why so many haranga on the Croatian party of rights? Probably on the side of dissatisfied customers who couldn't rip what they wanted. The Croatian Party of Rights as a Democratic Party has allowed its local organisations free entry into the coalition after the elections on one condition that a once agreed partnership must not be let down and no gentlemen have let it down, but we also did not let the street through, call this event of the people or... The revolution changes the will of the voters and threatens the legally established power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder if the public of this country is a criminal trade mandate or against it? Are we against political prostitution or are we against it? In a country of political culture, it is necessary to design protective mechanisms so that certain prostitutes do not turn the entire policy into a public house. The Croatian party has managed to make it possible by its model of resignations to prevent immoral individuals from succumbing to bribery, blackmail and corruption, thus actually playing election results and voter will. We fell in, gentlemen, a moral fungi where we have to prevent a criminal anarchy and call it a democracy by some kind of protectionist. In fact, there is an unprecedented campaign against a party that has prevented the trade of mandates and political prostitution, and we have also entered the absurd where the minister of justice, for example, and the law departments instead of courts actually judge the legal futility of our uninvited resignations. Whether the term of office belongs to a person or a party, the Croatian Party considers that it can only depend on how the term of office is obtained. In the majority election, citizens choose a person and thus the won term belongs unquestionably to the individual, but in the proportional election, voters also vote for the party's programme, so rounding the party's list can accordingly be held that the mandate belongs to some and the party because we do not forget when the council member resigns that mandate belongs to the list or party on which he went to the elections. It is the only way to actually show the citizens that we respect their electoral will to test the credibility of the poll on party ratings and show that we really want to raise Croatia's political culture from the level of fair to the level of the democratic world and whether we really want to or not, whether we are against trade in mandates or not. The Croatian party of rights is absolutely not for any trade, nor will it participate or participate in it so far. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, can be compared, I'd actually compare it to that Bible "Who without sin should throw the first stone away.". From this debate, we can conclude that we are all really hitting on each other as if we were sinless instead of climbing the ashes and showing to the Croatian public, Croatian citizens and Croatian voters clearly and loudly that we are against any manipulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54436	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54437	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct two allegations. The first is that the mandate becomes a mandate only when it is confirmed and, if it is true, it always belongs to the one who carries the mandate and not to the party because before that, he is only a member or part of that list. The second term, it doesn't just take for the store to be the one that buys and the one that sells. There may also be something to be bought and sold. So there must be an object and goods still.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54438	Second correction by the respected representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54439	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Peja Trčević, that we have fallen into the moral fungi. I claim that 95% of the coalitions and all established city, municipal, county councils are correct and correct. We have diagnosed the disease here and we have to fight to keep this disease from spreading, and that's our role not to make these exceptions a rule. Secondly, I don't want to talk, but I don't like the rather vulgar terminology used by my colleague, Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54440	We have five replicas. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54441	Thank you very much. HSP wants to restore citizens' trust, says Mr. Trjecevic. HSP sought to preserve local government as it was established in all environments and did not allow its members to trade mandates such as Brdek in Velika Gorica. With all your good intentions, you did it anyway, as we see in an unconstitutional way, because these mandates still belong to the council. But there is another way to prevent that trade, which is to disburse the representative bodies of those units of local self-government where power has been changed by trade in mandates. And if it is true that your party will make a decision on Saturday at your main apartment in Slavonski Brod that all of your council members resign and in Sisak, for example, return their mandate, allow new elections, restore the term of office to the citizens, then if it comes to it, I must consider it honorable. Because it's the only way to prevent people who don't have scruples, who have neither character nor morals from acting out the will of citizens. If we discourage them now, they won't do it again tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54442	The reply to the replica, the respected representative, Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Trainer, you understand me well, and you know exactly what I was going to say when I said this and whose term it belongs to. In fact, you can't define and say and everybody boasts together that the mandate belongs to a person or councilman and then simply forbid him by law when he will resign. I'm alluding in a way that you have to resign your amendments to this law 24 hours before the session itself, which is absolutely inadmissible. If the councilman's mandate is then he should have that mandate and have it. Which I do not agree with personally is a question. If we all boast that the councilman belongs to the mandate, then that mandate cannot be transferred to another one but at the time of his resignation and the arrangement of his resignation, the party on whose list he was taking over. So again, we're wondering if it's really a mandate belonging to a councilman or someone else. So we've got to get it done with the law. It's always been good will to prevent any manipulation. That's what we'll do on our executive bodies. However, one thing I will warn you and remind you is that we have neither traded nor participated in the fact that your councilmen have left your party. We have nothing to do with it and there has been no trade and exchange for councilmen and council mandates in Sisak. That's the difference between Sisko and these other local self-governments we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54444	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ivica Clem.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54445	Mr. President, Your Honor! The fact is that the voter's will is being played, the fact is that we have not defined by law nor can we define various post-election coalition agreements. In the area of Vukovar-Srijem County there have been many cases and the last case in Cerna where the elections will be held on 19 February, I will briefly describe the elections to you in this way. The Croatian Democratic Union won seven council seats of fifteen. Six other political lists, political parties won eight seats. I repeat, there were six other lists. Which is the voter's will in the Cern municipality. In order to be able to think and discuss how we will improve the Law on Elections in Local Self-Government bodies, we must reach this one civilizational level to make all contributions, all political parties and to enable those political lists that receive the highest number of mandates in representative bodies to make sure that these political lists, regardless of their lack of absolute majority, are and will create power in the area of that municipality. Of course it has to be coalition power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54446	The reply to the replica, the respected representative, Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54447	I agree with you that there is an act of voter will, but we are all together who deal with politics as well as our parties are obliged to prevent it to whatever extent we can. Croatia's right has shown in past local elections how this can be resolved. All right, gentlemen, let's all go to the polls on our own. Let us show how much trust we enjoy in the voters. How much we're worth as a party and as individuals. So if you get as an independent list, like, that you went to the election right to put the executive power together, then that's the voter's will. Is it the voter's will for one party to go out on its own against the other six? That's what I'm asking you, and it has to be regulated by law. Then the voter's will will be respected both before and after the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54448	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54449	Thank you very much. The final manifestation of this election play is famous. Tomorrow, the Assembly of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the Požeško-Slavonska Assembly, the City Council of Velika Gorica will be disbanded, and in some ways everyone feels the winners. Everyone likes how new elections can be made, how policy credibility can be confirmed, and those who have lost and those who have won, even though the public first ruled here, and the public's resistance to disagree with something that is not moral, which is not allowed and is not simply wrong as a practice. But it is no longer a subject but a theme of how to encourage citizens and voters to really go to the polls without putting them in a position to be deceived one way or another. The only right thing to do is to go out on your own. Each party on its own. And the one who gets the most votes to confirm the rule, even if it is necessary for minority governments. It's only right to retain the authentic will of the electoral body. It's the only message that needs to be sent to this very House of Citizens to return hope that there's a reason to go to elections. That there's a reason to go to the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54450	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go. ... And you did, didn't you? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54451	Thank you very much, Mr. President, but I'll tell you very briefly. Here's my colleague Markov actually accepted my initiative, and I understand that as here's a toss for future elections in those environments where we discussed it. Speaking of the winners, Croatia's party of rights does not even calculate whether in certain environments there is a political loser or winner each if we hold that we are in all these environments a moral winner.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54452	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54453	Thank you very much. So I'd just like something about this morality that's trying to convince us of HSP because it's interesting how HSP is a high moral party and just by activating the binco resignations that are on the way to saying illegals prevents the trading of mandates to other parties. But what's interesting here is opening up a store inside HSP. So it changes the ones chosen, and the best example is in Požega County. The trading of the mandate within the HSP has changed the council member who has stood up against crime in the county, against excessive debt and against some illegal decisions. And he was elected second, he was elected the second councilman who actually amnested that poor county government. So it is unequivocally unequivocally that the activation of the binco resignation allows trading within the party, and probably that should be prevented if it is done in this way as it was done in Požega.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54454	The reply to the replica, the respected representative, Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not true that the Bianco Resigns Institute or the enveloped resignations actually open trade within our party. It's absolutely incorrect, but he's preventing anyone from trading. Anyone. So, gentlemen, whoever opposes this solution when there is no legal quality solution is for manipulation. That's for the store. And these are these dissatisfied customers who have failed to implement their political, commercial agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54456	Deputy Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54457	Mr. President, here I believe that everyone who looks at the debate and listens to it today and listens to it, actually listened to it on Friday, sees that we're dealing with ourselves again, that we're discussing a job that no political party seems to be completely immune or can't say that from any party at least someone hasn't tried it in such a store, so in fact, in the eyes of the public, a picture of how to deal with politics is actually not an honorable job, which is certainly a pity. Trade in terms of local or trade mandates in the Assembly is unfortunately something that is known, to which no one has been immune so far and which has actually counted us among the old trades and not quite honorable trades. The fact is, the opposition most often speaks of it and the one who gets it on his head, trade, or loses power or is betrayed by his own. However, voters have always sanctioned it. But also to the harm of democracy. I'm sure the Zagrebers still know who Sporer and Bukovic are. I'm sure the SDP won't forget what happened in Sisak when trade or change of attitude, it'll probably be proven, went from its own party, but it should be admitted. As a consequence, we still have some unconstitutional or under-constituted councils or county councils of what, as in my county and it is no wonder that here more than half a year after the elections we are still discussing elections, not problems that actually directly touch citizens, which is a question of standards. So we also have the fact that trade is actually legalized and that it often applies as a model instead of a choice. So instead of choices. Well, as a consequence, we have a lack of people to vote as he mentioned just before a colleague of Markov's. Well, then, 30% of citizens choose mayors and the government of the largest city. And then it's no wonder that they actually become sheriffs in a certain way, that they're afraid of them and the heads of their own parties, or actually they're comfortable with the financial part that those powers hold in their hands. The only thing we have agreed today is that this law should be changed. This is one of the attempts, let's try to fix it to the final form of it, but without the illusion that we will actually completely eliminate trade from our ranks. Maybe it'll be something rarer, maybe it'll just be more imaginative than it's ever been before. We've felt the store many times in HSLS. They also traded ours as did some of the other parties, some of the other parties from our party, because this was well paid for by different sinacurams, ministerial places. That way the voter's will was changed, and it's certain that it's not the end of it. However, when we talk about local council members, this is currently the sensitivity of more powerful political parties, I think we need to start thinking about what a million kuna actually means for an independent representative in the mandate, so it's hard to guess if someone really is an independent representative, so it's either by conscience or by the question of how to earn a million kuna and be an esteemed representative. These are variations that will really need to be discussed in this honorable House. One of the models is the adoption of a law that needs to be corrected, the other is certainly the direct choice of mayor, and the one that must arise after these two is a certain and real financial decentralisation where indeed local sheriffs could have certain restrictions. We will support this amendment to the law, and I only hope that colleagues and colleagues will not go according to that model we will condemn the phenomenon, but we will protect our comrades and friends.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54458	Thank you. We have six replicas. First and most respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So what Mrs Adlesic was saying about the will of the voters. She first mentioned the Bjelovar-Belova County. Now I'm really interested in how the voter's will was played, and on the worst eclectic example. There they are now in power with HSS, HDZ, SDP and HNS and now about morality, where the voter will be. Let's further discuss the voter's will from the aspect of the Croatian Parliament. If we want to solve all these problems we need... Let's just say the variant, in an ex-consumption, there was an HSLS split into two parties, in libra. [[You don't understand.]] Was the voter's will to start a new party of Libra? She wasn't. Let us now enter the last parliamentary elections, for example LIBRA was on the list together with the SDP and so entered the Croatian Parliament, because otherwise they could not enter the Croatian Parliament and now the situation of LIBRA has moved to HNS, one part has remained. Was that the voter's will? It wasn't the voter's will. The LS example, part of the LS was also in the coalition with the SDP, and that is one of the ways it entered means in the last parliamentary elections, now one part of the LS has come to power in the ruling majority. Then if we want to follow the will of the voters, let's go from the Croatian Parliament and settle. If we solve problems here, it'll certainly be a lot easier on the ground. So much for the voter's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54460	Replica response, respected representative and vice president Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54461	Thank you very much. I can completely calmly listen to my colleague Kovacevic, because HSLS in our county did not participate in voter fraud, but that is why they deceived us and that is why those who spoke loudest of honesty, namely to clarify. With our name and party we introduced HNS councilors who speak very strongly now about protecting citizens from fraud against trade, and then they signed the contract imagine what it is called, exactly what it is, about getting into power and tricking voters and partners, but fortunately the citizens remember and sanction.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54462	Honorable representative of Ante Markov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54463	Thank you very much. So here's a clue to what I was talking about earlier about the voter's will and how it's recognised in the new elections, the Bjelovar-Bilogor County of HSS has the natural right to have a mayor, it's something that doesn't just come out of the law but out of morality and what I was saying when the party comes out and has twice as much as anyone else, then I guess it belongs to the right to have a mayor and that's what should never really be questioned not only in Bjelovar but anywhere else. When a party has the majority and has received most of the support of the electoral body, what on earth will it be discussed whether all of them will join against the HSS in the Bjelovar-Belgar County to lose power? What could be normal, legitimate, and fair? However, none of the laws, no law will regulate these ways of thinking that do not go in the direction that those who have received the most should be supported because it is the support of the electoral body, because it is the support of citizens. And why aren't the citizens coming out? It is precisely because these things sometimes don't happen sometimes and that's why there are these independent lists, but unfortunately citizens have lost their confidence in them too because they have seen that this is not a proper relationship and that it cannot be amortised through independent lists of what citizens expect from political parties. So the ball is on political parties, the ball is on us to try to do in these extraordinary elections what citizens most simply want, which is to respect their will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54464	Replica response, respected deputy president Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54465	... I can agree again with my colleague Markov, it is clear that I would not call it a natural right, but at least a political cultural one that, if those who get the most of them had the right to mayor, we also agreed in HSLS, so that I do not dispute your right but those we have brought into the county assembly so as not to look at it only on the postcard. And what we really want to coalition HSS, HDZ, SDP and one part of the HNS is for our county to stop being a case and finally have another parish and healthy coalition relations. And when you make such a deal, we will support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54466	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54467	Thank you very much. I've really listened to these moral traits that we've had the opportunity to hear and I'm very impressed by it and I'm fully signing them. But we've been listening here and a series of questions that have been asked, and now I'm wondering who these questions are? To me? Well, I guess those questions should be answered by Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic, along with her coalition partners or with this, be careful to hold on to the morale of the lecture and always be able to do a little with the one and the one and now here with the high doctorate, I don't know if it seems to me that the address should be directed towards someone else. Because in democracy, one fact is known, by the number of votes of the citizens, and whether or not you behave in power, is therefore responsible. And when you ask Mrs. Adlesic these questions, maybe turn around where you should turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54468	Vice-President Đurđa Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54469	Thank you very much. Rest assured, colleague Lucine, I didn't ask you anything. I was really looking at the direction of the party that we were partners with in the past government and who actually treated us the way the whole public knows. You probably know that opening questions means looking for adequate answers. I offered them. Let's fix this law. I'm sorry you didn't listen or maybe you didn't understand. I said to support the reform of this law, to pass a law on the direct selection of mayors and also financial decentralisation. I expect after the clarification that I have now given you to support that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54470	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54471	I would agree with my colleague Adlesic that she claimed no one was immune. However, as much as the debate would otherwise go on, it is everyone's fault that no one's guilty. Exactly perhaps that no one was immune, but here is the question perhaps in this particular direction as he detected it, not without reason fellow Lucin. To whom does this question point, and why do you relatify the responsibility of everyone? Who's responsible for this happening? Whoever showed up didn't stop you, and he should have. Who even exists in this country to react to that, which is not, or who encouraged it all. The answer is Government, members of the government. Well, before the local elections, the ministers put themselves in the collapse of a legally elected local government. So what are we talking about here? Therefore, if the Government were to seriously put an end to this, with this shame, in which way it very much manipulates this law with which nothing is dealt with. So, and also prepares not only a strategy, but also an action plan in the fight against corruption. If one were to question the responsibility of those, above all some members of the government, specifically in Karlovac, it would mean more to the citizens than empty declarations, rather than action plans, than here to discuss this bill. After all, I would once again agree with the President of the Parliament who spoke about the criminal responsibility of such behaviour, where a causal relationship very easily, because it is evident. That's what all citizens see, let alone those who are involved in political life. After all, human trafficking is also suppressed by many international conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54472	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54473	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Adlesic, here when I listen to you I feel that you are in opposition especially when you talk about MPs who have changed party uniforms and will receive a million kunas for it. However, you are here in both the Parliament and the Government coalition partner of the HDZ who has just motivated MPs to change their party uniforms and which, by interpreting the law, I again claim by paralegal interpretation of the law, made it possible for them to take these millions of kunas. The HSS was against it then and HSS is against it now. If you're truthful about what you're saying, and I believe that might be true, I suggest you start that initiative right now and make it impossible for those who changed the party's uniform to be rewarded even with a million kuna. I am absolutely sure that both the HSS and the rest of your opposition will support this initiative and then we will prevent what you are up for. Here is what we expect you to do to encourage this proposal that we will discuss here in Parliament and as far as the HSS is concerned, and I believe other objections will be accepted, and then what you are up for and your initiative will be able to change and implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54474	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54475	Mr. President, mentioning the trade by the distinguished Croatian Vice President has asked me to report for this replica. Although I am personally against every store both before and after the election and changing the uniforms as popularly spoken here. But I'm opening up a dilemma, a trade, a negotiation and pre-election agreements can't be called trade and trade contracts without a clause, as we can see now. What if such a coalition is formed to win power? A coalition is not formed to just run to the elections and not win citizens' confidence. Is that why we have to cancel the election everywhere? Let us ask ourselves that perhaps showing such a great appetite that the rule may always be won may turn citizens away from the polls. These are the dilemmas opened to me by your debate and I think we must take great care of them when in some way we define the future in these elections, or in the next elections. And the other thing that I can't agree with is that I'm not sure that the direct choice of mayors and mayor is a recipe to solve all our problems, and I think we need to think very, very well about it before we go into such changes in the electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54476	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54477	Mr. President, I'd like to welcome my colleagues up to, uh, the kids at the gallery, and I'd almost apologize. My contribution to the debate will be very modest. I'm going to talk about three things about the bill itself, the reception of this proposal in this House and the moral panic created about it and the essence of security democracy. As far as the bill is concerned, I think it's some kind of work of art, actually, poetry, or we could say it's some kind of normative haiku. It is a law that has 2nd article, 39 words, which tries to solve a problem that the entire Croatian public is appalled by. People beat each other with shovels on their heads, call on security guards, prevent people from coming in, even sober Davorko Vidovic insults a man on a family basis, which is not only a hate speech, but something that was completely incomprehensible to me and no one has rebelled about it. As for reception, two types of moral panic are usually created in this High House. Otherwise, the concept of moral panic is a theoretical concept designed by a man named Cohen. This creates constant situations when people's devils appear. For the past few days, moral panic has been created around the customs union or the Western Balkans trade zone. All around it are excited, and no one reads the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which in five articles provides for what will happen these days. The left side of this assembly creates a moral panic over patriotism, the right about honesty. When it comes to honesty I will remind you of the end of my favorite novel, it is the novel Franz Kafka "Process" which is about to end, I may miss something, about like this. K was convicted and two law enforcement officers approached him from behind and strangled him. So he's almost attached and the last look he sees throws at the crowd in front of him and has one thought. That shame might survive him. You see, it's a big deal when people, individuals, social groups, parties and peoples keep feeling ashamed. We in this High Assembly have people who, for example, have earned five million kunas on disabled people. I personally have nothing against it, but I've talked to these people, they don't feel ashamed. They don't feel like they did something wrong. You have a man who promised to build a nursing home in Dubrovnik in 91 years, took 182 million of those dinars. He didn't build anything, there's no shame. So that shame is one important element that people can speak a little more critically about themselves. You see, there's a theoretical man named James Fieldson. He wrote a book called Moral Feeling. And the key message of the book is this: "when people express moral judgments about other people, they should do it in private and with a silent voice or in silence." Unfortunately, here it comes from the assumption that others are corrupt, and that I am, or we are, honest, which is not true. Nor can the problem of security democracy or trade be interpreted by mandates or secret resignations to moralist reasons and the creation of moral panic. The reasons are numerous, I will list them here because I have no time, and with the very concept and concept of security democracy I have dedicated a whole chapter in my book "Wolf Lonely" that you will receive by summer break. So, what are the factors that condition such a chaotic situation, some kind of nightmare in the Croatian policy area. The first factor is the electoral system, electoral legislation. On many occasions, I said that as a single Commercial Law, a single Electoral Law should be passed in Croatia. To be fat, to be consistent on principle as large a majority as possible, preferably the issue of consensus not to be constantly improvised. The mayor's direct elections are now being proposed, and no one is thinking that logically we should then move on to the majority system so that they are concreteised, the personification of elections in election units, and not only in large cities. Another problem is the end of ideology and the chronic crisis of parties. In the old order of the Cold War, Communism, capitalism, democracy, dictatorship, everything was more or less the same. Each one knew how to speak, he could report as he said in one place of the kunder, a stick, or a hat on a stick, and report it as a party candidate, and he would superiorly defeat a Nobel laureate or a man who wrote 575 books. It's all mixed up today. ... fighting for fast privatisation, for a flexible labour market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The church is against Sunday's work, and it sold all the premises to malls. So there's a big nightmare going on. That's the third function. The third problem is to change the social structure. In the earlier order, there was no one to vote for. Loyalty was high. The working class voted on the left parties, tycoons, capitalists, moguls and middle class voted for the parties to the right center, the Liberal Party, etc. Today it's all mixed up. Then change in the value system. Unfortunately, the kuna has become a standard of all values. When ideals disappear, it's hard to bring them back to life. Then we have a problem with the irrationally organized Croatian state and in this sense I might have with the most respected representative Damir Kajin, my only great friend, almost as fond of Jaksa Marasovic before he was given the instrumentation of those who had no problem with Franz Kafka. To propose the renewal of the bicameral parliament, because in some ways this regional and heterogeneous element will have to be presented in this House. It is recognized even by the European Union. And the sixth and last thing is leadership in the broadest sense. We have museums run by parties. These museums run by parties they simply created from their own consciousness a turtle idea of their own ability and wisdom. Someone has to say, it's embarrassing for me to say that some of the emperors are naked. It's not because we're going to change something. So, I'd like to end up with the next thing. I'm looking at our secretary of state, he's been to this House many times. He knows what will happen, he listens to that moralization and does not lose patience. He knows what Socrates knew when she angered him, that is, his wife yelled at him... So he said after the thunder and the rain came the sun. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just be patient, Secretary of State. This law won't change anything, but it's not such a bad law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54478	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54479	Thank you very much. The Honorable Professor spoke of the number of words in this Law. Of course, word numbers don't talk about the size of a problem, they only talk about the thickness of a book. Sometimes even the content does not speak of the size of the problem, and the size of this problem if viewed through these values in this Law, of course, would not find tolerance. But just now the Emperor is naked for the reason that today in this Parliament, and even at the beginning we heard about the disbanding of these units of local self-government, says that not so naked is the Law on Local Self-Government. Principles and standards on which we should operate, politicians should participate in the way in which citizens should be entitled to the power they choose. But simply the emperor is naked for reasons that perhaps less law, and more practice and way of political action has led to this. It would be the easiest thing for everyone to blame the law and say it's the law, and then we'll fix it. And if we stay the same with all the non-principals we often deal with, with too much desire to keep power in every county is more important than keeping political face, identity to preserve and and give once on the heart of our own loss of power a good guideline for security in the future. In this way we must today send here messages that we will all agree differently together in these elections and that after these elections there will be fewer reasons for this conflicting interpretation of the law and the diversity of opinion. The message is mine again. Let's go to the election, go out on our own. Let the citizens decide who will act on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54480	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54481	I was talking about structural rises or the etiology of security democracy. Bringing problems to human nature is always risky. We ex-marcists, so President of Parliament and I know that every man has a bright and dark side, that there is another side of Sinai, that in you too, Marco, forgive you, there is a grain of goodness and wisdom in you. So we can live on the negative black side and the positive side. If you say these are all thieves, and we're an incarnation of honesty I'll make an investigation based on your publicly expressed views and you'll see that there's a devil in you. Besides, the devil himself is actually a fallen angel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54482	Otherwise, I've been sympathizing for a while... Marsa, early papers based on Hegel and German idealistic philosophy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative of the Mato Church, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54483	Mr. President. As long as you and your early work are done, I'll say it for a while. Dear Representative Letica made it clear that there should be shame. I really agree with the fact that it is doubtful what a man with no shame is like, and there is Kafka, of course, long ago was right. And I would like to support one more thing in particular, which is that when talking about other people should speak quietly and with great care because they are very easily mistaken. However, Mr Letica, you have here called Mr Marasovic and some others the loudest you could in front of the entire Croatian public, so I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54484	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54485	I didn't call Marasovic... I learned that at that time he didn't understand things well, so I'll call him later because I didn't mention Jaksu Marasovic in any negative context but I just mentioned the fact that he forgot when he talked about other people about a party from which he also springed and came from evil. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54486	Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54487	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, it may be an interesting debate for us here in the assembly on this bill proposal, but it's my assessment and I'll make it public that the bill is actually an alibi for the Croatian government, which I publicly said is legal silence. Why do I think that? After 15 years of Croatia's independent state, democratic states, after 15 years of the Croatian Constitution and after several years of the Law on the Election of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Croatian Government is seeking legal opinion whether it is valid in Croatian democracy, the basic democratic principle that the government belongs to the citizens and that the mandate of the elected representative is its and no one else's. In ancient Rome or ancient Rome, there is a rule of law, says that the one who has done something that the law forbids, and the whole law is played by the one who is formally right, but is playing the point of the law. Why did I read that? Here's Article 70. The Constitution of Croatia says: "The Croatian Parliament is a representative body of citizens and that means nothing to the government." Article 30 is then replaced by the following: The law on local and regional self-government in paragraph 1 states: "Members of the representative body do not have a binding mandate and have not called off." And then the government, after it does not want to interpret it and it does not want to interrupt these activities for anyone to happen and who it thinks of as an alibi, wants to say in this way that we did not have regulated matter in law, so we could not do anything about it, so we are now required after 8 months of legal advice from the Department of Law Department in Zagreb. Is it really so far that I could say that it is not known that the mandate belongs to the citizens, the man chosen from the citizens? And one more thing. So please, why are we philosophizing to whom is the resignation? Every one of you on the test will say so it's a personal act. Well, someone can't resign my men instead. And one more thing. Can anyone resign from what they don't have? It's really absurd to talk about Bianca's resignations, so a councilman or a citizen who wants to be chosen has to resign? Bianca resigns to whom? The party's leader, and he hasn't even elected gentlemen yet, and then the party's leadership will eliminate the representatives' council's right to decide by its will and vote as it pleases. My colleagues and colleagues here have a lot of questions that we must not ignore by preventing the trade of mandates, which is a problem that must be declared by the authority that must enforce the laws so as not to destroy the right of the councilman to think for himself. We must maintain that the representatives who have been given the term of office of citizens are able to vote on their conscience and express what they think they are asking of him. Let's imagine the situation now that we've passed a law like this as proposed, we're actually just regulating the way to resign or resign. In a situation where the law provides for a resignation delivered today, my will does not produce a legal effect and days to whom it is given. And I change my mind for 24 hours tomorrow and I take it back as if the resignation was available for the event of death, as a will until they produce legal effects and it's already produced. Done. So hiding behind a legal stand is good, but that wasn't the point of anyone here who was arguing. The point was that there is already a precise regulation that belongs to the mandate of the councilor and the representative and that there is no binding mandate and that the government had to prevent at least what it could. Of course, there is a party responsibility in democracy. That's not the issue. But the parties really need to be taken care of by its members as well as by its citizens. Citizens must be able to identify who is manipulating their interests or who is selling them and the government must worry about implementing the law and not ask for an opinion after six or seven months of what I believe to be the most well-intentioned or well-educated citizen of Croatia. That is why I ask once again whether it is necessary to pass a law on what is already regulated and thus to say we did not have a law and all that has happened so far is worth it because there was no law and it is worth it. There's nothing we can do about it. Or try to interpret the provisions of the laws that exist, take action against those who have violated them. And finally, something else that wasn't mentioned here. The change in the flocks, the change in political opinion and the change in the party is politically incorrect but we cannot punish it as it is predicted here. We can't punish it as predicted here, but trade, blackmail and purchase must be prevented by the government. In doing so, it is her responsibility and the party's responsibility and the civic responsibility is for those who have changed the political option under any circumstances to be sanctioned in the elections in such a way that citizens can play their part in a democratic society. Maybe in the end there's just one more, and I think it's a political assessment. Any change in government after the election procedure has been declared and completed if it occurs by special purchase, or blackmail, or by changing the political uniform should be returned to the citizens that they decide in the elections who will act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54488	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54489	Mr. President, an esteemed colleague, in that sense, would have corrected the incorrect allegations, he said, quoting the provision of Article 74. A constitution that defines that MPs do not have a binding mandate said, "To the government it means nothing." And that means nothing twice to the government as a constitutional principle. On the contrary, that's also incorrect. Given the fact that the constitutional principle and the provision of the Constitution for the Government certainly means not only as a constitutional principle, the Government has made a proposal to amend these provisions of the laws that have in practice obviously led to ambiguity, not to say abuse. So, such qualifications with regard to the government when they actually want to solve the problem with this initiative not only are they incorrect but they are also inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54490	The second correction by the esteemed representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54491	Thank you, Mr. President. I think my colleague Leco said in the last sentence, and there's always something to be forgotten here through all the debates. I don't think it's true that it's enough to call new elections in local self-government units suspected of trading. Which will be resolved by the new elections and who guarantees that all the expensive "trafficking" will not happen again. If it were that simple, then we as a society could very simply prove it and then solve it in the simplest and most painless way of bribery and corruption. But imagine that, before disbanding such councilors and calling new government elections, the authorized authority should also have evidence for that trade and that is what is hard to prove and there is no law that can eradicate it. The only ones who can sanction such councilmen and parties are voters in the election. That's what you'll believe, this is going to improve something, but no law is going to eradicate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54492	Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Leko said something I fully support. Any electoral fraud created after the elections must be returned to voters to elect their representatives in the new elections. I fully support it. But I think there's something else missing, Mr. Leco. Who's gonna pay for the new election? Are these parties involved in anti-constitutional activities, or are they taxpayers?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54494	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54495	Comrade Poirot, let me tell you first. In democracy, unfortunately, all are paid by citizens, and they are the last judges of both our and the council's mandate. So let's not replace the thesis so they don't pay us to decide. Let them pay. This is their obligation and their right and let them punish those who, at least in their opinion, committed a fraud of the election result. And as for Mr. President of the Parliament, I'd like you to protect us from providing replication in the form of an alleged correction. It's not simply a correct relationship with colleagues. Then we can't replicate and answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54496	Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54497	In one question, Honorable colleague Leko has actually summed up something that confuses me all this time listening to this discussion, and he said, "Do we even need the law?" Well, I really don't see why we should, but he's probably hiding somewhere for a reason. I see something I don't understand. Strong illnesses and dilemmas, dilemmas about whether or not a representative is allowed to resign, may he not? This and that. Well, he's allowed to give every day. Well, it's a political process. No one has the right to even within their own party to provide such methods with some particular loyalty because they are also dynamic processes within the parties themselves. What's the only question here is, is there ever any corruption based on changing and delegating the meaning of the choices themselves at all? And it needs to be solved through corruption issues. So if someone changed their political opinion, someone changes it every day. That's why some parties are more convincing and others are less convincing. But if it is corruption, then it needs to find places in the law to cancel the election. And then they are also known, and whose responsibility is to whom if they are cancelled, if the elections have been annulled. In Canada, one election for one MP was annulled because he spent a little more money than he could under the law. That's what Canadian voters used to pay for. But he probably paid for it, too. But please, the dilemma to which the mandate belongs is absurd. Well, that's not what I mean in the first grade, I mean in the first grade, I mean political, kind of class, not school. Let's talk about this, these things here we're seriously discussing here in the Parliament. Focusing on the issue of corruption and implementing the amendment is probably something in the style Mr. Vidovic spoke of that is the only meaning of this whole of our grief, not insulting ourselves and ourselves as we're all young, no one is immune to it. I'm sorry, I'm immune. My colleagues are immune, too. We all thought, I don't know, we were wrong about something. Well, that's not true. Individuals made a mistake. And if they have not wronged those who gave in their belief their resignations and changed their ways, and changed parties. It was those who did it because they achieved direct material illegal benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54498	Thank you, colleague Leko, for trying to protect the MPs from correcting incorrect allegations under the replica company. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54499	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm a little upset and angry because I heard that this morning in the Assembly's service log someone handed over my resignation. I remember, though, that in 1997 I signed one resignation at the amateur football club, so if that resignation comes to you, please don't ask for any graphic skills or opinion of the law school, I declare that I did not hand it over as the law requires. And I'm sorry about this joke, but I had to use it to explain to myself what we're obviously discussing. In the local law, local elections say the councilman resigns. Now we have to supplement the law to convince ourselves that the councilman is resigning. Apparently, there have been cases where councilors have failed to resign, but then I remind the following. And the government. All election documents from a declaration of acceptance of candidacy, an electoral list and every paper must have on it the signature, stamp, date, and even the power of attorney and even the signatories of the list of candidates had to prove that, by the president of the parties, they proved that they were authorized persons to hand over the list. When the election was over and the resignations were obviously someone thought they could handle the toilet paper. The signature doesn't even matter to anyone anymore. And that's why we have to spend two days arguing about this. How is it possible that even this updated law does not provide for a verification of the signature of the resigner? Which is not a document equal to the meaning, importance and impact of the work of the representative body as well as a statement of acceptance of the candidacy. Well, that's how we interpreted it by general administrative procedure, and Article 7. The law then states that an unconfirmed signature from a public notary would not be valid no matter how many witnesses there were written. So the problem was caused by the documents of HSP councilman's resignation. When I mentioned it last week, my colleagues told me I couldn't see it, that I couldn't talk about it, but in the meantime, I looked up the newspaper and found statements by the president of Mr. Djapic's party saying that all their council members had signed the binco resignations. "Absolutely he signed his resignation by thinking of Veraja as it was signed and always for the activation of the ready-made resignation of Ruza Tomasic, Ante Djapic, Miroslav Rožic, as I assure you, also Miso Veraj." It's a newspaper quote. Now if the resignations were signed with the date of signature, that was before the election, I can't be worth it. Because no one's ever been a councilman before, so he couldn't resign. If resignations are not valid without a date, it must be a date on the document. However, if resignations are subsequently entered dates, then please, we must use the Penal Code, which states in Article 311: "Who makes false corrections or amends the right to use such an instrument as rights or who uses false or modified corrections as a right or obtains it for use will be fined by fines or fines for up to 3 years." And Article 313 states: “The committing of a criminal act of counterfeiting an document will also be considered a procedure when: Under the 1st time of any paper, blanket, or any other object on which a person has placed his signature unauthorizedly fills in any statement that has the value of legal, legal relations. So I will be pleased if the State Attorney's Office and the Office of State Administration apply Articles 311 and 313 and determine whether the actions were contrary to these two provisions that I read. Only then can we say that using the criminal law will prevent all future signatories and collectors from making statements. It is said that part of the trade in mandates, mandates, no one admits to buying or trading. Apparently, there was only a conflict in the fact that part of HSP's councilors entered retail instead of wholesale and were no longer satisfied with the wholesale price, they went to retail. Nothing else. Whole sale is what needs to be prevented. We're afraid of competition, that's obvious. Who's to blame for this? In my opinion, all those who in 2001 and 2003 and 2004 and 2005 in this House rejected our proposal to introduce direct elections for the leaders, as the subject of trade is merely a technical means, and the essence of the purchase is the head office of the mayor of the municipality, mayor and mayor. Functions are purchased, and mandate is just a technical means to open it. And here we are listening to the moral lectures of counterpart Adlesic, who and whose party has four times refused direct elections and voted against these proposals and says we must introduce direct elections and thus prevent the trading of mandates. We also hear lectures on the shame of fellow Letica who entered the Parliament on the party list, turned into an independent representative, and under the Law on political parties the dead takes a certain amount of kuna. He's probably taking that money with a little shame because I understood it so much that Kafka ordered him to. Therefore, this intervention by me is neither necessary nor will it prevent us from applying the provisions of the Penal Code and introducing direct elections and voting in the Assembly the interpretation of the Law on Political Parties on the agenda of this session on our request that no one be independent who has not been to the elections as an independent candidate. Believe me, we will give the best prevention and best message and restore citizens' trust not only in representative bodies, but also in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54500	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54501	Well, a colleague said he was joking about his resignation in the Croatian Parliament's service log and then he added that it was impossible for this Parliament. A colleague that's possible. In the previous assembly of the Parliament, a prominent member of the Zlatko Seselj Party resigned from the post, you were then in a coalition with the Party and did not talk about it. The second thing, during that term, the Party split the HSLS into two parts and created a party that served very well and your third incorrect quote did not want to defend my fellow Letica but you gave one notorious lie. Not false, the Constitutional Court has given Mr. Letty the right to the money that belongs to every representative. Otherwise, you who are in the parties also each gets, but this is used by your parties, and here is used by fellow Letica as well as other independent representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54502	Second correction by the respected representative, Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54503	Thank you very much. Mr. President, my colleague Lesar is for the first time mentioning the Croatian party's rights and these enveloped binco resignations discussed them as if he knew them in detail from the first article to the last one standing there, and in fact, in life, man did not see it, and so measuredly discuss it. And it's not true that the signers didn't do it personally and that it wasn't any legal effect afterwards, then it wouldn't be worth any other stuff either. So it is incorrect what it says about the resignations given by the Croatian party's council members.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54504	Replica, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54505	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, proceed to this presentation of an esteemed colleague. First of all, fellow Letica is not dead and cold. If he was dead, he wouldn't be able to get that part of what you were talking about. Secondly, you are really sparking and replacing the Croatian Party's intention was to protect the will of the electoral authorities and to prevent trade in terms of mandates. So, stop trading for mandates. Therefore, each of them voluntarily signed that resignation. No one under duress signed that resignation. Everyone signed that resignation voluntarily, and that's the thing that's clear. On the other side of the date. The date, look at you then it wouldn't be worth it, then it wouldn't be worth it for you. You understand? How do you speak? It wouldn't even be worth it, and it wouldn't have legal force. You know, it wouldn't be worth it in front of a marriage contract. Watch the prenup. The premarital contract regulates how it will be resolved after the divorce. Is that legal? He's allowed in front of a marriage contract, right? That the rights and obligations of a spouse will be regulated when they enter into marriage. So the thing is, we have missing regulations. We have, we don't prevent trading in terms of mandates, let's say in terms of trading in terms of how you explain that your members have now entered the club on the SDP list and are now at your club. And how do you explain that, why don't you tell me? How? How moral it means. You want to apply this part about counterfeiting and this part right now. So be careful what you say! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54506	My colleagues and colleagues, please pay more attention because it cannot be understood whether it was in front of a marriage or outside of a marriage contract. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54507	Yeah, well, in my debate, I didn't talk to my colleague Kovacevic about the intentions you had. I believe that you had these intentions, but about your actions. I can't... I was just commenting on what you did, and I didn't say you had bad intentions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I won't talk about your intentions, I really don't know them, and that's your right. But the works that he did, I guess I have the right to comment. That's the first one. And secondly, by comparing this situation with the fact that the two parties have fusiond, joined one and talked about it as some kind of political trade that remained opposition in this Parliament and did not once support key documents such as the budget on which the rulings fall or pass. I think you missed the part. The Constitutional Court has not issued a word on independent MPs or has declared itself incompetent. You should be able to read the decisions, and someone couldn't say anything about last term I haven't been in the Assembly as a colleague of Loncar for 22 years. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54508	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54509	Well, this gentleman, I don't know his name, but it doesn't matter, I know he's been a union boy for a long time, and I guess...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54510	Thank you very much. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. No, no, it's not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54511	No, no, I'm not. 209 article item just a little, please nice. It is not paragraph 3 but paragraphs 4 and 5. So he insulted me here, and what he's saying now is I'm here in front of this Parliament and I'm telling the Croatian public he's lying. He's lying...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54512	He didn't insult you, and don't. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You cannot correct an incorrect quote. It's a claim, a counterclaim. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a correction of an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54513	Dear Mr. President, read Article 209. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54514	I read it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54515	Well, don't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54516	Very good. Replica, please. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54517	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to replicate Agent Lesar when he says. In most of his presentations, I would agree and sign it, but he only made one mistake when he mentioned it in 2001, and he forgot 2000 and a month in February when the Zagreb Assembly was torn down. You had authority in the state, and you weren't in the City of Zagreb. Then two days before the 10th of February, the resignation was signed, two by Mr. Sulj and Marinkovic and the assembly was disbanded immediately on 10 February, where you and the SDP were a month after the elections were called and you took power in the City of Zagreb. So, you didn't ask to check out who signed it, whether it was a public notary, but just said, we have two binco resignations, and that's where you called the election and won. So we're going from the beginning. You won 19% of the vote in the re-election, SDP 20%. And great, you had the right to establish power and that's how it should be in everyone. The one who wins most of it has the right to establish power. Whether at the level of state, county or cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54518	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54519	I must admit that I am pleased that my colleague, Arabovic, agrees with most of my presentations, and I am really pleased. But maybe we didn't understand each other when I mentioned 2001, 3rd, 4th and 5th. These were the years when the Croatian People's Party was in parliament, he proposed a Law on the introduction of direct elections for the mayors of the municipalities, mayors and mayors. That's why they were mentioned that year. And this in Zagreb in 2000, I don't know, I didn't understand what you were talking about. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54520	Please, if there are problems with the guidance, finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54521	Yes, yes, yes, but as far as I remember, the Croatian People's Party in 2000 was not in the power of Zagreb, was it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54522	Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54523	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State. Here, for two days now, we have been having a heated discussion about, as my colleague Letica said, the haiku law or 36 words, 2 legal articles. But what else we're discussing and we're proving ourselves to be a two-day notorious fact about the scrawny reputation of politicians, and we're persistently destroying each other if there's anything left in public. We heard, and I'm going to go back to a really dry room now, you'd say, legal debate. We have heard here that it is embarrassing that the State Office after 15 years of the Croatian State, after just as many years of Croatian Constitution requires professional expertise from our Faculty of Law and the Department of Constitutional Law. We've heard it's been 15 years, or I don't know how clear it is that the councilman's mandate and mandate is non-binding and irrevocable. However, I believe that it is very important and that today we are much easier to discuss after the Court of Constitutional Court's expertise for the reason that it has confirmed the constitutional provision of an irrevocable and non-binding term of office. Namely, why does it matter? It is undeniable and doubtless that the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government sets the council's mandate as non-binding. It is undeniable that the Law on election of members of the representative bodies also established an irrevocable and non-binding mandate. However, there were no clear nor explicit views on the constitutional determination of irrevocableness, the non-binding of council members and members of the assembly's mandate in the units of local and regional self-government. In this regard, Article 74 of the Treaty on the The Explicate Constitution speaks of the non-binding mandate of a parliamentary representative from which theological interpretation could be concluded, given that it is the same electoral procedure, that this applies to both council members and members of the local and regional units. But it should also be kept in mind, which supports the constitutional provision of a non-binding mandate, Article 132(2) of the Croatian Constitution, which says "rightly on self-government is achieved through local, or regional, regional representative bodies composed of members", not from a list but from "members elected in free, secret elections on the basis of direct, equal and general electoral rights". I, too, am pleased to find that democratic proof is undoubtedly a non-binding and irrevocable mandate and that this is the foundation of democracy, not the rule of parties or parties. I welcome here today the discussion of all those MPs who haven't focused on actors or on political options because I think this phenomenon is universal. That unlimited imagination and ingenuity are in the manipulation of achieved democratic achievements. So also at the session of this session, we have one obliging interpretation or not to give mandatory interpretation where it is also suspected of possible manipulation of some achievements, mainly in the rights of national minorities. I welcome the State Office's express intention to propose to the Government and to use its legal powers as set out in Article 84 on the disbanding of a representative body in the event of the establishment of illegality. But it's only for past cases and we wouldn't have to disband and establish illegality every time because this institute is subject to judicial protection of the Court of Justice, so maybe it's not so easy to resolve. Despite the opinions of some MPs here, I believe that the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of local self-government units is necessary and in order to establish procedures and conditions in advance. The resignation, or resignation, is no doubt a personal act. What I feel is that these amendments to the law want to be achieved, not that it seems to me but certainly is so, is that it is determined that at the time of the resignation it was indeed the will of the resigner. In this case and in such cases as no procedure or conditions under which the resignation is lodged today, any time in the event of a suspicion in criminal proceedings, as it was said, of some kind of counterfeit or something like that, it should individually determine the lack of will on the part of the resigning party. So I think that this kind of stipple of changes and additions is kind of trying to make sure that, at the time of the resignation, it really was the free will of the resigner. As this is the first reading, it would be good to consider whether this is the best way to determine this free will or whether it would be better and more effective to prescribe perhaps some procedure as we have for applying and so on. In any case, if it decides on this type of manipulation, i.e. to determine the time limits to be resigned before the meeting of the representative body, then I hold that paragraph 2 could not, by my deep conviction, be read like this because it is that at the time of receipt of the written resignation, the mandate has ceased and the mandate has already ceased and it is questionable that it can then be activated if it stopped 24 hours after that. Therefore, a formulation should be considered where it would be said to cease with a delay if it is not recalled within 24 hours. Here's what I think is good, that we all know the trade situation we're all talking about, about trading mandates, one party has tried in some way to prevent it, how morally it is to oppose someone's original and irrevocable will, by calling for a barat's mandate. So, certainly one, one, one immoral act, unfair in a small number of politicians who cast a bad shadow, then the overall political body should be prevented, but here I firmly believe that the direct election of leaders, so mayors, mayors and mayors of these and these situations will be less and less interested in changing relations within the representative bodies, and of course not only that, but it will be necessary under the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government to work out mutual relations, preventing obstructions between the so directly elected head and representative body, and I am deeply convinced that these cases will be less and less and less. While this is the case, I should and welcome once again the intention of the central state office to resolve the situation in a decommissioning manner, but also to prevent any future situation from happening through clear legal procedures and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54524	Thank you. Six replicas. First, respected representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54525	Mr. President, I express this instrument of replica to actually express my opinion of something that is unacceptable, and here it has repeatedly repeated itself. Dear MP Lovrin says, we're destroying the reputation of politicians, he's thinking of this rapsage. Mrs. Lovrin, how who? We've been arguing for two days and breaking the reputation of politicians. Would the reputation of politicians be greater or better if we didn't discuss these two days? If you said maybe if politicians didn't say that then their reputation would be greater, they'd agree with you. Or Vice President of the Parliament, I'm sorry she's not here right now, she said her own, says we all do. That's not true. I don't. Please, yes, I simply express my opposition to such generalizations and in these discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54526	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54527	A respected colleague of the Church, of course, would certainly not, some politicians would not ruin their reputation if they did not speak. I didn't talk about talking for two days and discussing the day, these two days, but about the way some of these distinguished colleagues are discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54528	Another replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54529	Well, I would agree with my colleague, Lovrin, that there are different manipulations, and she also noted the manipulation of the mandate of the National Minority Council. Here you see this is an eclative example where everything is fine with council members in the assembly, but the government wants to instrumentize through the central state office, or manipulate council mandates. How? Neither she herself but wishes to transfer responsibility to the council of God, so it is not a clear law, so when they no longer dared to do so themselves through the central state office, responsibility is now transferred to even involve the entire Parliament. We need to point out here the president of the Committee on Legislatives who remained at the level of honor of the defence, the Constitution and the law and the entire Parliament when he opposed such a request from the government. We will also discuss such a proposal for a decision soon here and discuss it. And on the other hand, here is an obvious example of how the government is doing, that is, what it is doing and how it is harassing, and how it wants to reverse a political situation that has completely and perfectly legally and in accordance with the law, even the president of the Committee on Law, so your HDZ colleague has opposed it. On the other hand, in the city of Zadar, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities does not want to be applied so that we were forced to appeal again to the Constitutional Court. There, therefore, against that decision, i.e. the very conclusion that not as a central state condition, it has instrumented the government itself as to whether it is coming out of that situation, so it is still ordering instructions to local self-government units that are relevant data, that the relevant data is not a list of voters on which we have accessed all local elections because it says it is not arranged, the electoral lists, please, are not arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54530	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54531	Kolice Antičević in the town of Zadar is fully respected by the electoral legal procedure and the moment the city of Zadar receives notice from the electoral commission that legal representation of members of the national minority is not guaranteed in the past elections at that time, the city council of Zadar will act in accordance with the law. Here I was talking about something else, which is that the law says nicely if the elections did not achieve the appropriate representation of representatives of national minorities in the presidential body etc., etc., but that is where miracles occur, where representation is achieved, and then those elected have representation, resign, then some others who are not that national minority, and then from that same list are complemented by the number of councils and seats or members of the assembly, and so the majority of the representative bodies are characterised.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54532	Next replica, respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54533	Your Honor, Mr. President. On the trail of what my colleague Lovrin was saying, I also believe that everyone today is well-intentioned and serious about being talked about regardless of which party they were from, they were actually saying the same thing. Unfortunately, behavior in practice is not like that, but attitude is. It is also my opinion that this proposed article will not solve all possible situations because today and the last time we discussed it was a lot of the thesis that will not be solved by this proposed article, so here we are today and recently talking a lot, but little is being proposed. I will try to say on the basis of this one proposal may be able to help one article, one of which is difficult to cover all of what has been said recently and today, perhaps it would help a credible interpretation that would interpret the text of the law, the spirit of the law, and then, on the basis of that, the State Audit Office might react afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54534	Next replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54535	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lovrin, I think what's going on should be placed in the right context, which is exactly the love between HDZ and HSP, it's time to break up the marriage contract, I would say so, and then we call initiatives actually not to be taken. We are looking for an interpretation of the Constitutional Law Department which is not binding, and at the same time we are not looking for an interpretation of the Parliament or the Legislative Committee which should have been done. I remind you that at this session under agenda 35, we have a proposal for a proposal for a credible interpretation of the Law on Political Parties. Here, this is the path that should have been applied to interpreting this Law. Which is why we haven't done so, it's probably not hard to answer, but what concerns me in these cases is that no supervision in any county or in any city has been carried out in any of these cases, so it would be very easy to determine whether there were illegal shops or not, but there is no surveillance. The same for any case, we don't have any evidence or police. We've been talking here for 15 days that they have elements for bribery, corruption and everything else, but we don't have these obviouss here. We're changing the law and we're interpreting it in a way where the water obviously came to the mouth, we should have done it a long time ago, and now we're in a big problem, and I'm proposing that the entire law be interpreted by the one who has to, and that's the Assembly, best said by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54536	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54537	Thank you very much. My colleague Pacek is not involved in any institution whether someone had or had stopped and how someone loved him. We could also discuss this in that sentiment of the famous voter's will, because all the post-election coalitions that are not announced to voters are actually a contemplation of the electoral body, and this is about amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies simply to implement consistently and properly the constitutional principle for which we have now received and a confirmation of the Chamber of Constitutional Law, therefore professional expertise, it is not binding, but certainly has one power, professional power, it is that this Constitutional principle of irrevocability and non-responsibility of the mandate is carried out through the law and through these provisions which make it impossible for someone against the council to have the will of the council to have its mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54538	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54539	Well, Mr. President, I'd like to remind you that this is the same Department of Constitutional Law '97, '98. she also claimed that money was neither property, the same cathedral claimed in one particular case, and the same order was done by the government. So much for that. Now, you can legally explain to me, and here's Palaric's legal right now to explain what it means now that he's taking that part. Does it produce legal effects from the moment it was accepted... The resignation, or from this day forward today, until that opinion came to the cathedral? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That would explain what that means. And why are we brought to this? Because neither this authority nor the former one had previously wanted to nor wanted to regulate legally either in which way and then you say how morally it means by alluding that it is immoral for them that we wanted to prevent trading from mandates, how morally those resignations mean for you, then it is more moral for this trade to mandates, or if we decide to do so, it is certainly more moral to go to these resignations than that situation to allow trade in terms of mandates. And with us, the situation is much easier, we went to all the elections on our own, so let's go to the elections on your own, and we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54540	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54541	Kola Kovacevic, if it is an illicit trade, will be resolved by other legal regulations, criminal law and law enforcement bodies in this country. So, we're talking about the councilman owning his mandate, that he's non-binding, that he's not owned by a particular political party, and therefore these amendments and additions to the law go only in order to unequivocally determine the will of the resignor at the time of resigning after that personal act. The amendments and additions to this law in such a statement or until the final proposal in the amended statement will be clearly laid down in a way that will undoubtedly determine the will of the resigning applicant. Here, that's all there is to do and in all cases so far it will be necessary to determine the lack of will on the part of the applicant and it is obvious if the applicant himself declares that he has not resigned.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54542	And the esteemed representative of Nikola Ivanish's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54543	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lovrin, I would like to replicate the last part of your presentation with the intention of first and foremost in the replica to comment on what you have made quite clear even though it has been heard in a lot of debate and that is how the direct choice of the mayor, mayor and mayor will solve this problem. I don't think he's gonna solve this problem. I think knowing the political, party and other opportunities in Croatia can expect us to have even more complicated situations in another way. I say that regardless of what I am for both the first and the first procedures and the second procedure of the proposal of the Law on Direct Choice, I was myself a proposer. I think that's the answer and I'm defending him. But the expectation that after that there will be no of these situations is simply incorrect. Namely, the direct selection of mayors, along with a certain system of selecting a representative body, will lead us to a situation that we will certainly have a significant number of leaders who will not have a qualified and firm majority in the representative body. Every legal system and ours will determine no matter how complicated the possibility of recalling a head man by a representative body because it simply has to be for cases of different levels of violations of the law. What are we gonna have in that case? Maybe more circuses than we have today. And for that reason, I think the expectation that one, first of all, is the moral question can be solved solely by regulation, I think it's unrealistic. And at the end of the line, I'd like to say one thing. There is only if, of course, you'd be willing to think about it at all. There really is a way and there are societies, there are countries that don't have this type of problem, who don't know what an institution of extraordinary elections is, who don't know what impeachment is, who don't know what destruction is unless it intervenes on crime. It's a preferential system. Why don't we just say it once? A preferential system in which anyone who wins by 0.1% gets the advantage of a sufficient amount of mandate to have a stable electoral system. Well, these traditional democracies of the West know that, and I think that's quite clear, and we obviously don't want to because we want to be able to manipulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54544	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54545	Thank you very much. I agree with you colleagues that immoral spells will never be completely dealt with by law. At that point, they will no longer be immoral but illegal if we manage to cover them with the law, but I think that one critical mass of public and public change and learning democracy will teach politicians and that these immoral acts will become less and less and less. But I would not agree that this situation will not be improved by the direct selection of leaders, mayors, mayors and mayors, and because such changes in political options by one or two councilors will not necessarily lead to the removal or change of the head of the executive and certainly before the direct election should be thoroughly resolved by the Law on local and regional self-government of mutual relations between the so-called executive and representative body so that it would not be possible for each other to be obstructed in a manner of balance between the executive authority and the representative body authorities that they have mutual mechanisms for disbanding the representative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54546	Honorable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54547	Mr. President, Secretary of State, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues! Well, here's the second day we've been having a debate about this bill and there's a lot of things being said here. Anyway, we all or almost all agreed that the mandate belonged to the councilman. So, that's unequivocal, and that's what's said here from the law that says, so Article 3 of this law, which says that members of the representative bodies didn't call it off. that they do not have a binding mandate. It's also the government's position because it can't be different because it's so defined by law. Today we received the opinion and attitude of the Department of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. So it's an unequivocal matter that the term of office belongs to the councilman. What the government's intention is to prevent me from manipulating the council mandates, thus preventing anyone from resigning beyond the council's will. So to prevent the activation of so-called. Bianca's resignations. In fact, the government has offered here a solution that can be such but not necessarily, and it seems to me that more in this debate, we should concentrate precisely on offering some better solutions than the one offered by the Government and not dealing with it, and it seems to me that this is too much to deal with, rather, part of the debate was based on this criticism of the Government and the Central State Office, so it seems to me that the government and the Central State Office have nominated candidates on the council lists in representative bodies of local self-government units so that they can manipulate them. It seems to me that we should focus more on this and think about that, in fact, the greatest responsibility of political parties in running is therefore for specific local elections. In fact, political parties establish candidate lists, they choose and put on lists of people who can be like this or like this. Therefore, political parties in my view should take more care of what kind of people they put on lists, about their quality, about morality, about the responsibilities of these councilors who will exercise this very honorable duty in municipal, city or county councils. Unfortunately, I don't think that's been taken care of enough, and then we're doing business in terms of mandates. It is possible that the councilman also changes party colors, party uniforms, whatever we want to call it, and for reasons as far as possible, the political party to which it belongs does not implement what is promised to the electoral body, therefore to the voters. He's starting to disagree with that kind of policy and he's looking for other solutions. Therefore, it is also a certain possibility to show itself when crossing the council members from one party to the other party or the existence of their mandates to the independent. So here I would point out that we in Croatia have no such problems. So obviously we took care of the kind of people we run for on our lists. So these are primarily responsible, moral and honest people who don't change party uniforms, who aren't prone to trading, so they can't be bought. I therefore think that this is a good way and a good example of how politics should be conducted, i.e. that in the field, the Croatian Democratic Community consistently implements what it has promised its pre-election promises to citizens. But to return to the very proposal of this law specifically, and I will offer certain solutions that I think will be of more quality or quality to secure this mandate that belongs to us told the council. First of all, I think the law should be introduced by the Institute, so the resignation has to be verified by the public notary. Thus, we can clearly determine when it is submitted, so the date it is submitted. It can be regulated in such a way that resignations are submitted and certified by the public notary after or before the election is called or before the election is held is zero. So in this case, we would prevent this influence or a certain kind of blackmail that is possible by political parties towards councilors. So they say we won't put you on the list unless you sign that binco resignation before the election. So this is one possibility and, of course, in that case, it could also introduce the institute and the possibility of withdrawing, withdrawing. Another possibility is similar to what the government is proposing, therefore, also in the public notary of that resignation, but in some time. It can therefore be regulated that 15 days to 24 hours before holding a meeting of the representative body or between, for example, two meetings of the representative bodies, it is possible to resign, therefore, which must also be certified in the public notary. So you can see that, that's how you'd see that it's certainly the will of that councilman. And then in that case, in fact, that institution's withdrawal, the withdrawal would not be necessary. Let me also suggest this time when we are discussing amendments to this Law and perhaps the need to define exactly who the resignation is referred to. So is it a representative body, is it the president of the representative body, is it the mandate committee? I'm going to say one particular case. In Vrbovac, where the situation occurred that the councilman resigned from his post in the City Council but sent the resignation to the party. So not the representative body. The party submitted that resignation to the representative body. She's arranged. The representative body therefore established and accepted a deputy representative, and the councilman, meanwhile, appeared at a session of the City Council at another party's club and said he had never resigned. So now the situation is that it is decided in the Administrative Court or it is going to be, it seems to me that the opinion of the Central State Office is also required. So I think that this situation should also be predicted in this law. So I think by the second reading, we have the opportunity to reach this law and that it will benefit, above all, the citizens who, I'm sure, are paying attention to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54548	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54549	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague said the government's intention by this law is to prevent trading or manipulating councilman's mandates. I'm correcting this assumption because I don't think the government is going to prevent this proposal from manipulating or trading councilmen, but surely this law will make it difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54550	Replications. Honorable representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54551	Mr. President, I'm sorry to hear from you more than once. I really don't like it, but I think some things really should be said on this occasion. He would say this to Mr. Sesvetan. He rightly stresses that these phenomena should be prevented. That we should offer solutions. That we shouldn't just criticize the government and the Central Office. But in these discussions, we have to ask the government and the Central Office what does it look like? The president of the parliament has been competent to say that appearances that are obvious to anyone on the street can also be prosecuted. What did someone do about his statement, and is that what we and his institution are questioning? It's obvious that most of these cases we're talking about are so-called. The store simply results in corruption as Mr Vujic says. It is about material, financial and other interests or blackmail. Like the rule of law that the President of the Parliament calls and what are we doing about it and what have we done? Who's investigating this and what's been investigated in connection with this by the authorities of the administration and everyone else? We were now waiting for the opinion of some cathedral. I didn't even know until Mr. Kovacevic said it was the cathedral that legally found the money wasn't property. We wait for such opinions, and what do we do as a state competent to do certain things? And can it be reported to the public, including the Parliament and the President of the Parliament, on what is being investigated? What is done about it when every citizen is clear what is behind it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54552	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Holy One.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54553	Well, certainly if it's about corruption, it's about bribery that it's not the subject of this law. So it's the subject of some other law. So this is the subject of criminal law and, above all, the police, the State's Attorney's Office, the judiciary in general, which is obliged to prosecute such cases. So it's proven in courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54554	Second Replicated MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54555	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Sesvečan, that's the responsibility of the party that puts on the list people who are later to be sold. That's right. But that's the lowest degree of responsibility. This is the one, therefore, that the party cannot be exculpated to the end, and it bears a part of the responsibility it has sent to the list, or to the elections. So that's it, she made a mistake in choosing. Eror and eligland. That's the third degree of responsibility, the lowest. The second degree of responsibility is this particular person who has been sold. And the first degree you don't even talk about, which should be talked about here today, which is who the customers are. Customers are the ones who have the means. You say HDZ's sold out nowhere, but that's why they created a super market, a mega store, and they always show up in the role of customers, and we're not going from the lower levels that are numerous and where our citizens, which is exactly what our citizens know about and what happened to these councilmen, or their employment status and other benefits or purchase prices. But here we ask a question if the government is seriously thinking about what happened to and who first started it, among the first. So, the Carlovac case, and that's why it's right for a fellow Churchman to appear here. So, from a sales contract concluded on behalf of the buyer, none other than a member of the government, Mr. Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54556	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54557	My colleague Anticevic is asking a good question. So, who are the customers, but with that question, we're going back to how she says the first level of that responsibility. So, the party's responsibilities are what people put on the list. Because I think we should all strive for these people to be such a character, such morality that they can't be bought, that they don't have a price, so there won't be any buyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54558	There is colleague Antičević mixed and culpa eliglendo and eror and eligland. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54559	Thank you very much. You see, Mr. Sesvečan, in his debate, you make some suggestions on how to fix this law. You would be correcting this law, but please understand that the law is unnecessary. So it's unnecessary to fix something here that's in itself unnecessary. You see, if the treatment of a patient is unnecessary surgery, then it is absolutely unnecessary to discuss how this surgery should be performed and that this law is unnecessary to prove the government. Because today, without law, she decided to disband three councils. What do they need the law for? What do they need the law for? So this law tells us what we all knew and what the government knew and it proves today. And instead of withdrawing this law, just to make it seem logical, not to be ashamed any further. To say, here we have laws and so far, and we can disband three councils and they will disband and we will withdraw this law as unnecessary, completely excessive. This law is the release of fog. It's a smoke screen that wasn't discussed trading mandates. When you say Mr. Sesvetan that it's possible that some councilman disagrees with his party's policy, that's why he's changing addresses. But consider the situation in Split. There are two councilmen or how many of them have gone to the opposite side before the constitution. You know, they were elected on list A, because the voters wanted to, voted for him on list A, and they formed... with list B. Take Carlovec. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the same thing. The selected lady on the list A before the constitution comes to the list B. So she disagreed with. What decisions of the headship when the headship didn't even start working. Well, it's clear from that, you can see from the plane. It's obvious to everyone in this country that this is about faceless trade, private interests, people want money and they get money. Who gives them the money? Well, whoever wants to be mayor instead of citizens. No one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54560	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54561	Mr. Stazic says the law is unnecessary. I don't agree with that. I think the law is necessary and that it is precisely the government's intention to prevent this particular irregularity, illegality. So, with a clear determination of a certain provision of the law. So that's the government's intention, and these are all certain insinuations that can be produced and that we've been listening to these two days. So, as far as buying, shopping, so that's what I'm saying again, what I said in that case if it was found that there was bribery, corruption, then it's the subject of some other state bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54562	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54563	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm going to start with this last part first. He says, an esteemed colleague that the government's intention is to prevent these manipulations and everything else, and it's now contained in this bill of law. I agree with my colleague, Stazic, that it's a fog sale. On the contrary, the effect will be that it will facilitate trade. This law will now facilitate trade and raise the price. Here, it doesn't even... It'll be easier, and now you've been saying what he said about, and that's what Mrs. Rose said, you haven't heard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You spoke nicely of the party's responsibility to be careful who they put in place. I will now present to you the case of your party related to the City of Petrinja where the holder of the HDZ list in 2000 crossed over to HSS and replaced under the lip of Mayor Pejo Trčević and then approved by the assistant of Ingrid Teodor Antić. Here's a case of concrete, so much for responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54564	Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54565	Thank you very much. Col. Sesvečan said that we must all try in some way and give certain solutions, suggestions, how this law really should be what he wants to be - a defense of all possible immoral, unprincipled and illegal ways of dealing with mandates. That's right. In the second part, he said something that doesn't hold water by claiming that HDZ has no problem with these phenomena. I'm not estimating how many HDZ problems there are with these and those kinds of phenomena. But surely society has problems, citizens have problems, and we here, by our debate, show and determine that we all have problems together. Of course, the government understands the size of the problem and takes measures to disband as much as in time, as much pressure as I will not judge it either. But there is one very thin thread that divides democracy from partytocracy. The thin thread that often came all the way here at one time even challenged a exactly non-binding mandate. On the side of political parties he is not very desirable, because regardless we cannot all councilmen who have decided to change their policies and vote differently to call traders and thieves. It can be done for an honorable reason. There may be an honorable reason why a certain honorable councilman disagrees with politics says that I will not vote, and I believe that I won the term of office on the list and that I have received votes and trust for him precisely that policy that I am carrying out. So there may be various variations. Of course, the law cannot solve all these variations or solve them, but the political environment in which we live should simply be built from such impermeable valves that such negative ones appear and do not accept on the other side. The same is the one who accepted the immoral offer as the one who gave it. So we're all in the shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54566	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54567	So I was also talking about two options why someone's changing party colors, party uniforms. So one is immoral, commercial, so I didn't say that all councilmen are like that, and the other is the possibility that someone disagrees with the policy as it began to run the party that it belonged to, that it began to betray pre-election promises, to implement some kind of different policy. So these are the two possibilities I was talking about, I didn't say all councilmen were merchants and thieves, I don't know what you called.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54568	And distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54569	I replicate in that part of my colleague Sesvečana where he says that this law with any further supplements will solve these problems that we are discussing. Namely, both the Constitution and the Law on Local Units elections define who the mandate belongs to, today the secretary of state tells us that he also has an expert opinion on it. Therefore, it is not necessary to clarify this further. Also, the existing law says the councilman's mandate ends with his resignation, and therefore it does not need to be further elaborated. I think if we don't change something else, this is really groundless in this way to change this law. I agree with my colleague that the responsibility of the parties who are proposed to the electoral lists and if a council member is elected on a concrete list disagrees with the policy and for this reason resigns, the party has already been punished by the fact that she has lost power if she has been in power, and therefore nothing is disputed either. However, if such cases arise, that the councilman moves from one political group to another because he will achieve through this property benefit, then he should indeed initiate certain procedures, conduct an investigation and possibly criminally prosecute such persons. However, what is disputed and controversial in all of these cases is that if proceedings are not respected and if no sanctions are carried out because of the non-compliance with the procedure and if the state office which is responsible for these proceedings is delayed or does not react at all as was the case in the town of Sisak, when an illegal session has actually been declared legal and all decisions made on it have been declared legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54570	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54571	I'll just say about this finding around the city of Sisak, so I'm not exactly familiar with the situation, but as far as I can tell from these discussions that were being held, and the town of Sisak and the situation in Sisak has been mentioned very often. It is therefore that the two council members have voted specifically from the SDP and given support to the HDZ mayoral candidate. So, I don't think that's what you're talking about, what you're talking about. So it's some other stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54572	The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54573	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here we are approaching the end of a really long debate, of course the public will assess how useful it was. It seems like everything is said, we're probably repeating ourselves sometimes more than necessary. But on other occasions when discussing a bill, amendments, and additions, a number of questions are always asked, why the law is passed, the more important question is why changes and additions, and it is only the real question of why they are supplementing them, and it seems to me seven times already, why not change the law if there are so many changes. But the real questions are why now, and not before local elections, crossings, kidnappings or buying and selling mandates are probably over and we are talking about consequences now, and not whether or not we can prevent the cause. The same issue concerns the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, on the obligation to form a headship in small municipalities, which, however, caused a lot of anxiety over renegotiation, agreements, the procedure for something not to happen unforeseeable, that something should not be wrong so that the state office has to give its interpretation or opinion again, and they do not have these small municipalities of professional service and it is a question of who will and how it will help. And now the question is, why didn't all this work out before the local elections? Were there no transfers and acquisitions of mandates in previous mandates? It was that we all know. There would be only a lot less unwanted scenes, there was no security democracy, and today it is also more and more about the political settlement, I quote Mr Butkovic. Today we already know the expert opinion, i.e. the rule of law of the Faculty of Law of Constitutional Law, which instead of state, central state conditions seems to have resolved the the thesis in Velika Gorica and two counties, Požega-slavonska and Dubrovačko-Neretvanska, or at least we think problems will be solved. Isn't it strange that the basic and all of us have to be cleared of the law in this way and only now? It would not be good if that exception of the right word or professional opinion became a practice. I guess the central state administration office has employees of legal experts. Now what? The damage must have been done and irreparable. It seems to me after that Mr. Palaric as Pontius Pilate washes his hands, the problem will be solved by new elections. Who's going to compensate for the damage that the city and the county haven't been working for a few months? A pre-election campaign follows, elections, agreements on a new government for another half year, means nearly three-quarters of the year will not work, and how much this will cost will surely remain a secret and who will be responsible for not reacting right away. And there's been an example before. It is one thing to talk about this topic from some theoretical background that it was heard, read, and the other if someone had gone through and lived. There's probably a few MPs that have passed, so let's call it a torture trade with various methods. Unfortunately for me, I'm one of those. Which pressure methods were used better if you didn't know. Who and where he spoke with the councilmen, let it be a nightmare for those who ordered it or did it. And in that 95th position today, we might even be able to understand, but we can't justify it. But not today, not in your sleep. It's hard for us to change something here in the assembly, especially not with these amendments and additions to the law. All this is the result of a day-to-day, current policy of course of the ruling structure, which is understandable, which is spotlessly not responding in accordance with the law, i.e. stalling depending on the need. You can't bring an opinion that doesn't have any value. All you have to do is respect the law no matter who it's about. And even worse, you can't make different decisions in the same case in two different environments, and that's what happened. Who's to blame? Well, I guess the governing structure in that term is in power. Did anyone suffer any consequences for non-compliance with the law? I'm not sure. I also don't know what we should do with these changes and additions? A councilman's transition from party to party? We won't. Trade terms? We won't. Corruption? I'm sure this law doesn't. The responsibility for transfers is most borne by political parties who need to respond to voters as councilors or candidates were on the lists. Which leads to the dissatisfaction of the councilman with a policy conducted by the party or the head of local self-government. Also the question, will the party whose list of defectors will punish in the next election? Who's going to go to the election or the reelection? But it has already been spoken several times today, and the question is, who do voters trust, whether parties or people? I personally believe that voters are closely following people whose lists and voters choose and believe, I'm quite certain, people. And to conclude, this amendment to the law does not solve anything. It would be best to give up this bill. The damages to untimely and poor tactical and political moves are large and irreparable. Who's going to be responsible for that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54574	Replica, a respected representative of Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54575	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sabati says you need to see why councilmen are unhappy, what kind of policy are certain parties unhappy? So it can't be decided if he was sitting in that party all the time, on that list, it hasn't even started yet, the county assembly even started, he's already decided to move on to another party. So he's been supporting that party's views all along. He is, so the only thing that matters to me, how he can cross is buying it, so someone bought it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54576	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54577	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the issue was raised by political parties. Each party must answer itself or find or give the voters an answer as to why someone from the political party has left. Dissatisfied with either the party's policy or any other reason. That was my intensity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54578	Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54579	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, indeed, we are all in a way and rather emotional when we talk about situations that we have actually experienced in our local environments. And it's quite logical that today's debate was both tumultuous and numerous because we all carry some experience from those environments in which we were chosen in one way or another regardless of the level of government. I would really like to say very briefly that in Croatia today everything is known or better, in Croatian politics everything is known. It is known who is in good relations and who will be co-ordinated if the government is in a position to form power. Of course there are certain exceptions in that situation, but the exceptions are here. Indeed, by voting for a particular party, citizens generally know in advance what the future government will look like, as should a possible post-election coalition. And that's why it's surprising that one party who lost power afterwards finds it perfectly legitimate, completely correct to buy in different ways the council members themselves, the members of the council. It regains the opportunity to create both economic and social policy of a particular local environment. The same thing happened in Sisak, we've heard it many times. We also heard the qualification that it was an election body fraud and I agree with such a qualification. I'd just like to say that then it's not good in the same basket, with the same qualifications to talk about some other environments. For example, for example, Velika Gorica is a great example that it does not mean for the SDP and it is not worth being in power at all costs. There has been a lot of talk today about Zagreb. Zagreb is a very interesting and very attractive topic. In Zagreb, all eyes are on each other, but very often in this kind of Zagreb practice, some things are being silenced, some facts are being ignored. I also said this on Friday, those years, in the late 1990s, for example, from 97th to 99th, all SDP council members in the City of Zagreb City Assembly had a price, but did not agree to be bought. Therefore, we are not all alike, and we do not all have the same morals, and we do not all have the same rules of conduct. In 2000, when the SDP in the City Assembly collected a sufficient number of signatures to disband the assembly, the SDP assured the citizens of the City of Zagreb to go to elections and choose a new power. The SDP could have had no choice at the time, but it did not agree to such a solution. It is a sad fact that this crisis of government, including the image of politicians that exists today in Croatia, is based on the fact that citizens choose one thing, and after a variety of council overcomings in some way for 4 years they have to suffer. For me, this is the primary issue of both an internal life and an internal trust, and indeed every party, and now we have a 15-year tradition, should have known who it proposes on the lists, so people who are truly in their local environment and internal life, internal policy, proved by their work, their reality, their principle of principle on one hand. On the other hand, we should also ask ourselves what kind of message it is, of course, we send to all our voters when it seems to be of interest to all of us, which is to act as a government, so I would, as a political layman, only say two sentences about that and such authority. The government should be able for all of us to achieve the programme, the electoral programme with which we went to the voters, so to achieve one alternative to economic and social measures, an alternative to the former government. This should be my authority, and the fight for that power should be an exclusive struggle for the implementation of this programme. What we're talking about today is who's gonna make this program happen. Each party should indeed look into its ranks and find those people who are competent and quality in some way and promote, on the other hand and realize each party's programme. Finally, it seems to me that we are actually experiencing one speedy way to experience certain children's diseases of democracy, of course we are concerned at this point, but I think such discussions can still contribute to the quality of future political life in Croatia. I heard that this debate is not really being transmitted, maybe it's good, maybe we need the same time when we need to close up in all four walls and within one house, and this is one house, this is one institution, tell ourselves what's going on, and then after such a debate, after the conclusions that we make officially, but each of us turns a new page for ourselves, and really more moral and quality, we start treating our fellow citizens and the government that should be, it has to be the only execution of the program with which we have gone before the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54580	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54581	It's not the reply to the replica, it's the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54582	The replica, yes. I've already had too many replicas and responses to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54583	You say, fellow Members, at the time of the Zagreb crisis, the SDPs were offered money, they did not succumb to this... They're calling, they're not that, not the SDP's are others, they're Bukovic and Šporer, they've been rewarded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bukovic became hospital director because he changed addresses, which he played the will of the electorate. To remind you this is the same doctor who said on television that he taught medicine from the Bible, that the Bible is the best medical textbook and that he became hospital director, so he paid it well and watch out for me now, we are proving something that is quite clear and that this has not started now, and that is what the late President Tudjman gave at the time of the Zagreb crisis full legitimacy for that. He said I won't let it, I won't let voters decide who will rule in Zagreb, I won't, I won't let it be such an opposition situation and then they found it, they bought Bukovic and Šporer and look, and it's not possible that the two SDPs bought in Sisak now. Well, you'll always find bastards in every party. Well, there are, in every society, spineless, immoral person, there will always be someone who will sell honor, face, voter trust for his own material breakthrough, but what's the problem? The problem is that he offers money and the problem is in the government that allows it, which allows mandates to be bought instead of disbanding such councils, and when the government disbands such councils would discourage these traders, it would discourage them, but the government won't because it suits her because she doesn't have power, because she can't get it in the elections, that she will rule if she can't get most.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54584	Yeah, special people, that's the problem. Replicate reply, respected representative Jelena Pavicicu Vukičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54585	Thank you very much. There's really... It started, but it would be very good if we with our conclusions and our discussion allowed her to end as happily as possible. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Obviously, the government is so interesting that it causes both the best and the worst in us, it is up to us, of course, to assess to each of us what we are going to give to this country or the local environment in which we act, and as far as the trade of all the people who have participated in it itself, I really believe that everyone, that the punishment that deserves, and I think that we have made a significant shift in relation to the 90s, because it was not in this way and so much discussed, so we have managed to sensitise the entire Croatian public on this subject, I think that all relevant factors in the territory of Croatia have been involved in this debate and I think it is undoubtedly one big contribution whether we want to adopt this and this unnecessary law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54586	And respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54587	Thank you, Mr. President. I would refer to the last sentence of a respected colleague, this Law not only is unnecessary but it is empty, it does not actually say anything, it re-discoveres warm water. Namely, whose mandate it is clear, it is written in the Constitution, it is written in the law, whose resignation is and that is clear. The law says that the councilman resigns, so I guess he can stand it to come somewhere and file it live, bring a human paper or sign it in front of someone who's authorized to do it, not that someone else is doing it for him, but the government now treats this segment of all these post-election carnivals as the most powerful of course to push other segments aside a little bit. But neither is this segment actually so naive. Namely, when signing these so-called so-called. Bianco's blank advances are two possible, two possible two bad scenarios. One is that the resignation was signed and dated before man became a councilman. In that case, whoever took that resignation and subsequently activated it is aware that it manipulates a completely invalid document because man could not resign to what was not yet. This is a matter of Article 311(1). Penalty law. The second solution is that the signature... Dated, so he resigns without a signature, the signature signed later and then the resignation arranged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that case, it is a clear falsification, therefore, of something which is a forged public document which treats Article 313(3). In both cases, I wonder what the State's Attorney's office is doing. Well, that's not one case in Croatia, there were, personally, five, six. There are probably even smaller municipalities I've never heard of. What the State's Attorney's office does in this situation is not processing people who've started and invented such illegal work. Now, about the intentions. I believe the intentions were extremely good. If I didn't believe it, I'd have to say I don't respect my HSP colleagues, which is not true. I respect them, and I appreciate them, and I like them most of the time. However, good intentions as well as bad very often lead to hell and especially a good intention that speaks but leave the law and the Constitution now. We have more interests here. They were once higher interests of the working class and became the higher interests of the Croatian people. There are no higher interests in Croatia than the Croatian Constitution and Croatian laws. These are the only higher interests and they must all respect, especially the political parties. But why does the law go into a procedure that is unnecessary right now. Partly because there was an apparent conflict of interest between HSP and HDZ and partly because the entire carnival actually crossed the limits of good taste. The store started a long time ago. There is, of course, everyone talking about the Zagreb case, these cases were around in Croatia. I remember such cases from Karlovac in one two terms, including members of the HNS who passed over, became this and that, getting jobs, their wives getting jobs, etc. But now it's out in public, and we need to thank the media. Had it not been for the media that put so much emphasis on the immorality of this whole situation, we probably wouldn't have discussed it this way today. And if it were immorality, stealing and thieving, selling this already... The carlovian case is perfectly well-confirmed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the young lady who was on the HSS list at the time was the president of the Croatian youth. The moment the council was established she moved to another camp with an argument that the programme for young HDZ was much better suited to her, that it was much better quality. Well, she wrote that program that she went to the polls with. Well, this one's a lot better. Clearly, in the harsh competition these days she got a job as an intern in one of the services in Karlovac. She's obviously a capable girl. The second crossing was the transition of a pensioner who, meanwhile, founded a retirement club as the second, the third group of pensioners in Karlovac that would be able to finance relatively well the pension needs in Karlovac. That's cute. The mechanisms of solving the problem seem to me triple. One is a direct choice. Of course, he's not gonna get those results we all swear when the extraordinary elections come. It's gonna be great. He won't. But they'll partially narrow the market down. That market will no longer be such that one in the store will be able to make God know what, it'll take a lot more to buy and that's already harder. The second foundation of actually solving this whole situation is the financing of parties that must exist transparently. He buys someone who has money when it comes to cash. The question where does he get it from? I do not know that we have ever seen a clear report on the financing of political parties in Croatia. And, of course, resignations and resignations are illegal, so there's no need to discuss it at all. However, it is evident that where situations like this happen to cross one, two, three or not, I don't know how many councilmen change camp. So change power in that unit of local self-government and clearly that the state must intervene because it is a fraud of citizens, about taking their constitutional right to manage their own community and has to call new elections. In that I absolutely agree with what Mr. Palaric said the government would do. However, it is not just the three units of local self-government. There's more. All in all, the principle of equality before the law. So, if in all situations it were treated in the same way in such or similar settings, it would lead us to have these cases really become a rare thing that we can all stand together and say it is a situation that none of us want to tolerate because it is a situation that goes on the back of all of us and this situation is going on behind all of us. Let's not fool ourselves that someone's out of it. That I didn't buy or sell anyone has nothing to do with it. The same way we citizens say, "Ma, you all have that bill." Unfortunately, that's what the situation looks like. We're all equally guilty of that. Regardless of what one HSP leader in Karlovac says now, the president actually, I don't think politics at local level or at this parliamentary level is the art of trade. The art of trade is commercial. This should be something a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54588	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivo Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54589	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Vuljanic, who said that a colleague in Karlovac had moved from HSS to an opposing camp. That's just not true. A colleague in Karlovac just left the HSS camp and remained an independent councilwoman, and she raised her hand at the constitutive session for a party she thinks she has and the position to have a better programme than her party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54590	Replica's esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54591	Yeah. The whole debate today has the impression that it's turning into one of the most common larpurartism. We're telling a story, but we're still doing it our way. There are no innocent gentlemen because otherwise how to interpret HNS president Vesna Pusic's metamorphosis which, up to 7 days ago, decidedly told the Croatian public that the mandate belonged to the party because it is only possible to prevent all these amoral trades. And the day before yesterday, it means two days ago in Pula in the wake of the campaign to amend this Law, Mrs Pusic receives two articles of the LS. Asking the press: "Wouldn't Mrs Pusic, as you publicly state the mandate, now agree to the party?" Mrs Pusic says, "Yes, but you know they are members of the coalition, so who should he give to then, to give them a mandate?" However, I ask myself the question of where morals are, where ethics is, where is the principle, where is principle because in that case it is not necessary to receive those members. You don't have to participate in that one amoral game. Moral can only be one. The principle can only be one. If it's worth something to others and it's not worth it to me, then it just doesn't make any sense anymore. It's not politics anymore. It's a store. It's against what needs to be condemned and what needs to be made clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54592	Thank you very much. We're gonna hang up now. Then we'll have two replicas. Honorable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and then respected representative Ana Lovrin. There will probably be replicas and answers, all together. So we're going to break up with this, with these replicas. And then there's the honorary representative Bozidar Pankretic. We'll continue at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54593	We're continuing the session. Replica is a respected representative of Antičević. ... I'm sorry, then. Here. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54594	Thank you. Mr Cain objected to the non-disciplineability of the Croatian People's Party in representing views on the imputability, i.e. the irrevocability of the mandate. Mr Cain, of course, I am not responsible for Mrs Pusic's words as a public figure, and especially not when it comes to any official party proposal, and the official views of the party are well seen in the documents that we have proposed to this Parliament. But among other things, Mrs Pusic did not say that the mandate should belong to the party, but, if we remember, she spoke about the content of the irrevocability of the mandate, not about who should be given the mandate. It's perfectly clear which mandate belongs to. In any case, the transfer of the Liberal Party council member to the HNS, not in future HSLS in Istria, is not subject to any trade. These councilors move from opposition to opposition and you know that in such a situation trade cannot be because there is simply no coin and no goods bought and councillors simply do not want to be in a coalition that is in state power. So if it's any doubt about the store then the logic seems to me to be segregated. In other words, when it comes to manipulation in the elections, in the last local elections in Istria, we did not invent the Green Party and falsify the data on its registration. Someone else did it in Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54595	Thank you. Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54596	In his debate, says counterpart Vuljanic, there is a public report on the financing of political parties. But if we also pass a new financing law and at all what the public report means, when here is the public, the trade contract concluded by Minister Vukelic with a retired member of the pensioner's party and you say he crossed over. Then he didn't cross over. He was simply transferred into the ownership of HDZ, which paid for it so much, according to point 5 of the contract, that the party would also be financed in a way past the law and all on the burden of taxpayers from the budget, from the city budget. And that's how you see when nothing happens to anyone and when it can be done by the highest government official, what to do then. It simply shows true contempt for voters if it is tolerated and as embarrassing as that act is, it is even more embarrassing to tolerate it. In this way the message is given to others who have not been involved in this, please include yourself, it is very lucrative. Therefore, with such behaviour, Croatia is indeed and this debate should, in this sense, show that Croatia is saved from disappointment in this one powerlessness, in one ineffectiveness of democracy, in one silent acceptance, tolerance of such anti-democracy procedures and practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54597	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54598	Thank you. I would like to point out once again that the financing of political parties and the transparency of this funding is of paramount importance. There's no shopping where there's no hidden money. Such marifetteluke cannot be performed with money on the public stage, which can be seen from where they came from and what they have spent on. Of course, no one will write in their report I paid so much and so many thousands of euros to buy that and that councilman. So, the more transparent the financing of parties, the less chance it's going to be of doing something like this. As for the contract in Karlovac that we've talked about a hundred times, I guess the saddest thing is that it's been done in such a clumsy way that it actually disgusts a man. First, a contract was made saying money. That contract came out in the paper. A few weeks later, that contract was withdrawn, a second contract was made with no money. Well, that's below the criteria for the functioning of a poor agricultural cooperative. Instead of launching such a law, the Government would certainly be able to better confirm that such a case has been sanctioned. So one of his top men, one of the people at the top of the party, sort of sanctioned, to show that such things would not be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54599	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54600	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, here's my colleague Vujanic you said again that this law is unnecessary, changes and complements this law that they are unnecessary, that they speak nothing and serve nothing. On the contrary, in my opinion, they serve exactly the legal debate of constitutional expression and the constitutional principle that the councilman's mandate originally belongs to the councilor and that he is non-binding and that the councilor is irrevocable, and clearly in such a statement or in some, something modified in the final proposal of the law he will clearly foresee a procedure that will immediately make it clear whether the resignation is an expression of his own will of the person who resigns and will immediately know whether it is illegal or not. Because in this state today, it is actually a question of where this illegality is, and even with regard to those anti-dates, because I am not obliged to resign today, and a series of doubts that would then be overcome by amending this law, and it is very important that what we are discussing, and I think that most of us have agreed that the constitutional expression of irrevocability of the council and the non-responsibility of the council mandate is important precisely because of the announcements of some political leaders that the mandates belong to the parties and that, in that context, too, there are possible amendments to the law, so it is important to establish this constitutional statement as already established in the Constitution of Croatia so that we do not go to change the law in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54601	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54602	I continue to claim that this law is completely unnecessary and that both the two elements that this law speaks of are unnecessary. One whose mandate is, it is perfectly clear in the current law, and it is perfectly clear in the Constitution, it should not be repeated anywhere. And the second element that explains what a resignation really is, so that's perfectly clear. Of course the procedure should be prescribed, every procedure should be prescribed, the essence of democracy is in the process and that the rules of the game are equally applied. That procedure belongs to the date. You say the date is not important and mandatory element of resignation, but the essential and mandatory element of each public file, each public act, each document is the moment when it was adopted. It's not all if that resignation was signed until man was still a councilman, but when he became a councilman. It's not all if it was signed and left without a date so that it could be activated when the party fits or is signed two days before resigning, which I don't think was the case in either of these resignations. So the date is talking about whether it's a malicious falsification or whether it's really a fair resignation. So I think he's the key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54603	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's a few words about this law. I think it should be pointed out that it is impossible to pass a law that will regulate, I would say, something that will need to be regulated by a long-standing democracy in Croatia and whatever law we have here, the implementation of this law will depend on all political parties and all those involved in politics. We can't say this doesn't fix anything. I'm gonna say it's fixing something that, and here's some say maybe it was clear before it was visible, but now it's more clearly defined. But one moment that I would say to all of us should make it difficult is when one law is in office, and then we need someone to interpret it as much as possible or we need someone who needs to be above the law or in this case who will give certain instructions to a solution, which is a state office. There's something wrong with that moment. At first I mentioned not the good part that is with us, where we have a situation which unfortunately will want me to or will not admit, another longer stay in Croatia, and on the other hand we have a situation where when certain things are interpreted then they can also be subjective. Of course, then we have a really difficult situation. A problematic situation, for example. It happened in a municipality called Cerna where only the institutions that had to confirm before if anyone had a council I would say and the right to run, and not after three or four council sessions were determined that someone had no residence, participated in the elections and then the elections had to be annulled. On the other hand, we have the Drenovci Municipality where the state office even goes into a situation where it determines whether the President of the Council was entitled to a break or not. I think when we get into situations like this, we really get in trouble. We also have situations when the direction turns in the wrong part, that then she insists on me saying irrelevant things to function if someone were to judge in any interest. All this is not good for Croatian democracy, all this is not going in the right direction and then what is evident in action, and it is in the work of trade, in this, that way, everyone should judge how it is. I think it forgets what's most important, and that's where in all of it those citizens, those people who didn't just vote for one party because they were ideologically or somehow different about it, but they voted primarily because of that authority, those people who act as authorities do something good for that community, for that city. I'm afraid in situations like this, individual municipalities and certain cities, these residents are suffering from a certain political competition. So we have to say a lot more work, but we can help each other. In my view, we also need to put in place some principles that we may find difficult to legislate in a certain part, but should be something that should be a political practice. If a list gets the highest percentage of votes, then it has the right to be a prime minister and it should be something that is the principle that should be applied. I will also say the list carried by the HDZ in the previous parliamentary elections received the most votes and we, as the Peasant Party, supported it. If we knew what they were going to do afterwards, they might not have done it, but in that part, but you never know, you have to give a chance to some who got that trust in that part. But it is important, however, to enter certain principles, to avoid I would say all the bad things that are happening here right now, because there will be a lot of blame, there will be those individuals who, unfortunately, will find themselves on the fire they have found and will find themselves in certain trials. It will not be possible to resolve any interpretations, any additions, but must be resolved by political principles which unfortunately do not have enough in Croatian politics. I think this is one thinking that's called not to be found and the direction isn't going wrong. For example, the principle of Zagreb County, which has been waiting for a certain solution for months now, is not a good direction. There may have been some awkwardness in formulating, creating, I would say certain committees, etc. But we don't have to wait too long for this solution to arrive because then they're born again, I'd say think of certain councilmen and certain parties, and then it's an opportunity to work in a certain way in a dim way. I think that the overall thinking of certain situations that arise with us can also be addressed by certain political agreements that have been discussed here and here in Parliament. About one thing, I'd say, with the principled behaviour of all parties, about one way that, here, parties don't accept those who go from party to party. Because unfortunately, they want to or won't admit our democracy isn't at the point where everyone would expect such people to be convicted and that such a policy will be condemned and that in politics they can't appear and can't be the ones to decide. Unfortunately, we don't have cases where some parties have a larger number of councilmen, a good majority so that someone can cross somewhere. You always cross over in tight, I'd say, most of them, and then things come up that aren't good and that are for every conviction. Maybe there's one more thing that needs to be said here that sometimes isn't spoken directly enough. We have sometimes in this principle and parties that sometimes get lonely. Almost no one wants to make a deal with them, etc. However, that we can't legally prescribe anything here, but most likely those who are on higher ground in those parties might ask why, for example, some in some environments, and we've heard from some of the ladies here, too, they won't exactly be left alone with them. I guess it's a matter of party functioning at lower levels, and that's a question in that part. So I certainly want to point out here that for the legal solutions and these changes that are here, and colleagues have defined, they are already in some way defined. And it is clear, however, that we will not solve all that is happening with them. I think we have to do this in a different way, and that will certainly depend on how we, politically, all of us, grow up together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54605	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54606	Dear Vice President, I am forced to say, correcting the incorrect Mr Pankretic. Because the Zagreb County was not about awkwardness, but we could say before we knew it. But it's hard to tell someone that something was doing ignorance than knowingly disobeying the law. Disrespecting the provisions of acts of Zagreb County. As for what Pankretic suggests, those with the highest number of votes should have the mandate. We absolutely support it because it would be rare for a county where then HDZ would not be amongst...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54607	Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54608	Yes, and among them in Zagreb County.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54609	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Bosnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54610	I would correct only this inaccuracies, where counterpart Pankretic said there was awkwardness in Zagreb County when the committee was formed. In fact, it is true and true that there was in fact illegality and it was brutal illegality because at the constitutive session of the Zagreb County Assembly, it was against the statutes and rules of procedure which imperatively undertake that the composition of these committees corresponds to the party membership of the party assembly. In the constitutional session, in fact, it happened that basic committees were drawn up without members of the Croatian Democratic Community. It's like having a session of Parliament's constitutive parliamentary committees, say, formed without the SDP, without members of the SDP as the main opposition party. Here, it is simply true that illegality happened in Zagreb County, not clumsyness.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54611	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in his presentation, the esteemed representative said and mentioned the Drenovac municipality. I think that the municipality is also mentioned in one presentation by the SDP. It's like there were some wicked, not democratic and illegal acts going on there. For the truthfulness of the information, I will say that in the municipality of Drenovci and in 2000 and this year in 2005 the Croatian Democratic Community received 7. And if we were to abide by one of the democratic principles, and as well as the principles that we've all supported here, then we could say that we should have, in fact, been perfectly normal to exercise power. But now there will be reelections so that it is not any community where there is a case. But it's also true that the chief who's part of the HSS doesn't want to hand over power under any conditions, so there are further complications.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54613	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54614	Thank you very much. Well, here you go, buddy, I mentioned... a specific case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the State Office is dealing with who's giving it to the municipal council and whether it's right or wrong, and whether it's being respected, then dear lady, I don't think there's anything to talk about after all. And you study whether the State Office should have interpreted whether the break of the day was on time or not given to the President of the Council in time. So then another one came in, I'd say that president's shift, etc. But the citizens will also give their judgment on that. But this may be my chance to answer to my colleagues who gave me the correction of an incorrect quote. I, I would say, quite correctly mentioned Zagreb County in a way that I consider the situation there to be very clean, real. And because of these situations, we do not perform those functions that the citizens have entrusted us with. And that's how we take care of development, take care of certain things. I would say that certain things can simply be solved if they want to, but if they want to be done in a way that if something is wrong in the Rules of Procedure, that it turns into a big problem against the law or illegal action, then we will come into question in terms of functioning and who will suffer? The citizens of Zagreb County will suffer, which will then be blocked. Well, I think it would be my turn for the State's Office to answer that urgently, in whatever form.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54615	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, has come to our parliamentary benches, I would say as a consequence of less or more dishonest actions over the past months. More specifically, after last year's local elections. It is clear that from last Friday to this day this debate has already been exhausted in many ways and that many things do not need to be repeated here. I'll base myself on just two, three things. I would like to say that I think that really these proposed changes are no longer so important, especially because they were intended to solve the issue of the so-called problem. Bianca's resignations. We had the situation here just this morning before the start of the debate when the secretary of state told us that the expert opinion was requested, meaning that he had received the expert opinion requested and confirmed what we had been saying all along and on which we based all the requests and all the debates, which is that an unequivocal council mandate of the council itself was confirmed by the Professional Court of Law, which means that such changes to the law are not necessary because and the existing law meant that such a crisis situation could be resolved because it was precisely the basis of the applicable laws that would solve these crisis situations in three units of the regional, or in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Požeko-Slavonia and in the town of Velika Gorica, but what I am doing here is crucial that it took so much time for the Central State Office and so much expertise to determine this situation, and I am afraid that it just coincided with today with the situation that was caused by the City Council and the City of Slovenia. It's quite a coincidence that after that interpretation came to your office on Friday, you say today that you will propose to the government the disbanding of these three units of regional, or local self-government. I have the feeling that you and the government have simply found yourself pressed against these SDP and HNS procedures in Velika Gorica and that you simply could not have acted differently but had to admit that the eternal mandate of each individual, not the party, had to admit that these bianko resignations were not valid and that the only correct solution to getting out of the crisis in these situations was simply to return these mandates to the citizens and to ensure that they again tell their court in the elections and that by the basis of these elections we are establishing the authorities in those units. Evidence that the SDP that I belong to and that the SDP of Zagreb County does not need to be in power at all costs has proved today in Velika Gorica when we have witnessed principles and when we have witnessed the situation we have announced that we will take steps ourselves if the Central State Office that had all the powers and which should have long ago not taken steps until the last day in the past month. I believe that voters will appreciate it, but I also expect that all those verbal principles witnessed by other parties are concretely proven in other environments and that all the environments that have changed power without the will of voters, i.e. the change of power without elections, and after the election, I will not go into what ways the council members went from one party to another before the constitution, and I have witnessed one such situation. I would like for such situations to be avoided in the future and, in fact, all of us to return the dignity of one political call, to raise one honorable call, and to show, by example, that such situations should not occur and that just as you have announced today, we bear in principle witness to the development of these crises not only in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Požega-slavonska or the town of Velika Gorica, but also to apply the same principle of principle to Sisak and Karlovac and in other areas where there has been a change of power without elections. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54617	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic. ... He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54618	Dear Mr. Vice President, let me briefly refer to the adoption of this law. So I can say that I support reading this Law in two parts, in the first and second readings, at least I repeat that I am not satisfied with the proposed solution because I don't think this solution is going to help solve all these problems that we have in the system, in the choice of our municipalities, cities and counties, and today I'm surprised at how many of these really problems there are. Here today some are resolved in this way, we could say in the ultimate way that some county congregations or city councils will be disbanded and therefore elections will be called. In my view, the current law also allows us to control this problem, and the essence of this problem is in the electoral law itself or the electoral legislation itself. But before that, I said that many of our municipalities, cities and counties were problems, both before the local elections themselves, during the local elections, and especially after these local elections when different combinations occurred, crossing councilmen from one side to the other, which therefore greatly threatened the dignity of these elections, because what happened and what citizens certainly did not accept was that politicians were not credible, because that is why. It often happened that citizens voted for one political option, and their votes ended in another political option. As a result, the assessment of politicians to us, i.e. The political parties give citizens, when I spoke on behalf of our club MDS, PGS, SBHs, I also showed this table where citizens on the scale of trust assessments just gave the lowest score to the political parties, from 1 to 7 they only gave us two, and perhaps that assessment would have been lower if these elections had been made after the local elections, so these studies were conducted before the 2005 local elections. We must therefore imagine ourselves above that fact, and it is also a fact that in the moral or morale of politicians, there is no law that can be deceived, but that is why it comes primarily from the persons of the politicians themselves, and also from the behaviour and politics of the political parties. So as far as this problem itself is concerned, I think the Constitution itself, we've heard, is largely giving answers to some of the dilemmas that have been put in place here today. The Constitution itself states in Article 132 that citizens are guaranteed the right to local and regional self-government, as well as that the right to self-government is exercised through local or regional regional representative bodies which are composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct equal and general voting rights. Therefore, the Constitution puts citizens but also members of representative councils, members not political parties or stakeholders, and I therefore think that it should amend the Electoral Law in order for a citizen voter to have the security to influence the work of a representative council, so that he is truly sure that his vote will not be lost or redirected. Also, to know and to be sure that the candidate will be trusted to make decisions in his place and manage that he will indeed be in the council or assembly of his municipality, city, or county. So, in order for this spirit to also be achieved through the Electoral Law, it is up to me to amend the Election Law itself because our current Electoral Law rests on the fact that all candidates are proposing electoral lists, whether they are party lists or independent electoral lists we have heard are often not independent but are very interesting, which is directly in the conflict with the provisions of the law which speaks of a non-binding mandate. So, on the one hand, the Constitution and the law itself are talking about a non-binding term of office, i.e. on the freedom of a representative council member to therefore lead himself in most of the policy in that council where, on the other hand, the intention of the party again is to lead a party policy through that member and that it actually determines who will represent it in that representative council. In order to reduce possible abuses or to bring the Electoral Law into line with the Constitution itself, it should therefore adapt the entire electoral system in several ways. First, to introduce a direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. In this way, the citizens would be sure that their leader would be the person who received the most votes in the elections and today we also heard examples that, for example, the holder of a party list which is therefore a potential candidate for the commissioner, the list that received 45% of the votes in the elections did not therefore become the chief of the elections but became the man of the list that received less than 20%, but by a combination he became chief. Such an application of the direct choice would avoid this. Also, it should change the electoral system itself in this section that we have left in the selection of members of the representative body so that half of the members of the representative body are elected directly by election units and half by election lists. In this way, citizens may also know who will represent them in the representative body. The elections should therefore be held in this majority section in the same way in two circles so that the representative is the one who gets more than 50% in the second round and not that it is usually so... Also, what we should do is make the advantage of forming a representative body's leadership a political option, a political or an interest that wins the highest mandate or vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can talk about political correctness here because it is the custom out there to take precedence in the formation of an executive body or the leadership of a representative body has that party with the highest mandate or to win the most votes. Somewhere it is regulated and the laws so far away that the party that won the most votes has the ability to form both power and itself. It's regulated in some states somewhere and legally. It is not yet with us, but I think it would avoid any possibility and manipulation, that this should also be introduced into our legislation. The law should also explicitly state that the mandate is non-binding and that the council members have not called off. The current law states that members of the representative body have not been called off, but it does not say anywhere that their mandate is non-binding. I think it should also be incorporated into the law. Also, the same should be imposed or provided for penalties for all those who have been proved to have used their candidate or councilor position for their personal material benefit. The candidates themselves and the political parties involved should therefore be responsible. And the sixth most important thing that should be pointed out is that the duty of all representatives of the council members is their duty, therefore, or at least it should have been to act morally and responsibly towards those who have given them confidence that they instead manage their municipality, city, county or Republic of Croatia, and many have unfortunately forgotten that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54619	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54620	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President! A colleague, Pavlic, advocated and accepted the introduction of direct elections for local self-government as one of the ways and possibilities of preventing the purchase of mandates of elected council members and then used experiences and suggested that those who win the largest number of votes in the representative body form the authority. In fact, those two proposals don't go together. Namely, when the direct elections were elected by the citizens. The leader has been selected in a direct direct selection model with no headship so this rule cannot be valid, possibly except for the principle of the representative body. So that's understood. By introducing direct choices, all of these philosophies that we are told are becoming completely unnecessary because then we have come so far that only citizens assign mandates to the assembly of executive power. That's the essence of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54621	On behalf of the IDS Club, five minutes of debate, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54622	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament! During these days, however, it could be heard that individuals should be prosecuted for abuse of the mandate until the parties should be banned from the elections in the case of the political trade. However, it is also necessary to tell the truth. That no one is immune from this political perversion on the political stage, no matter what omen the individual party was wearing. This perversion is somehow becoming a general phenomenon at least in my court, as I have said before, honor to the exceptions, but the biggest political traders are the so-called. independent lists devoid of any ideologies only see their own personal interest with the exception of Mr. Glavas. However, anyone who thinks that on the other hand fair behavior either of the council's council functions is wrong, however, is a privilege. On the contrary, I claim that the people in these public enterprises from Croatia insurance to Croatian radio television, from Jadrolinija to the Croatian Privatisation Fund are privileged... Position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main culprit of this political immorality is the existing electoral model. Why? Because in 2000 he is adapted to the parties in power and whenever it happens in political life happiness simply can't be. It's clear to everyone the same way or it was clear to everyone in 2000, we warned that with that law of happiness there would be no. And he, and the one who says that in 2001 there weren't those running overs, was also lying. Perhaps the best example is that we lost Pula when it was offered open and jobs and employed women, traded everything at 16 and so on and so on. But what's happening now in 2005 is still too much. She ruled as Kramaric would say, the security democracy. Third, this principle that is proposed if precise regulation is not to be rejected. Mr. Letica said this law won't change anything. I agree with him absolutely, but to continue that quote, but it's not such a bad intention. Exactly. This bill doesn't have a bad, bad intention. It is clear that the mandate must always belong to the council because, between one delegate system and one quasi-democratic system, the mandate belongs to the party and, on the other hand, to the principle that the government in all democratic structures from Austria to Switzerland, from the United States, I do not know until England, what is the parliamentary principle. However, it is also necessary to change the electoral model by key as it was in 1993. 50% versus 50% because picking out a list in small areas just doesn't make sense. But we will all agree that it is likely in radical decentralisation when local self - administration is in harmony with and clearly in moral principles. And that should put an emphasis on that. What began, however, to be done with all without any criteria from one Labin, Velika Gorica, Bakar and so on, the declared mandates simply these principles and such practice begins to destroy Croatia from the inside. I welcome the new elections that have been discussed today from Velika Gorica to Dubrovnik, but the country will continue to deal with itself for several months, perhaps 3.4, and local elections will largely destabilise opportunities at national level because it is impossible to include both ministers and vice-presidents of the government and President Sanader and SDP and so on. It's just impossible. So what we need most at this point is an honest election mandate and clearly this morale. If you want to move into another political option, come in, but don't clearly destroy those established political structures with your passing, because it just doesn't lead to anything. However, it is clear that this cannot be regulated by law. So leave with the mandate, don't destroy the established structure. If that happens then the public will react in some way, but if it is of interest, business, I don't know someone else well, then it's understandable that an individual should be punished. However, this should not be prescribed in the Law on Elections, but it is already embedded in the Penal Code and the State's Attorney's Office only needs to initiate certain processes. So once again I'm going to say the key is to change the electoral model that we had in 1993 half. 50% direct, 50% off the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54623	Thank you. On behalf of the PGS Club of the SBH, the distinguished representative of Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54624	... Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, please allow me, too, to repeat once again the important views of our club on this issue. [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood]] So we see we've opened up a wide debate. So not only are these articles of the law that are proposed by this law but it is therefore questionable and we also agree that the main generator of the crisis is therefore the electoral law which we are witnessing, and we suggest that it is going to be changed so to those points that we have already stated, which I will briefly repeat. So we support reading this law in, this, in two parts primarily because of the overall problem. that we really get to grips with problems and try to make things right together. That's it. that together and try and achieve the goal that the legislator points out. to prevent the abuse of laws by individuals or political groups with the aim of blocking the work of representative executives or units of local or regional self-government or changes in election results. So that's the goal that the promoter himself set for himself, i.e. The consequences for which he would wish to be realized, but unfortunately the changes proposed in this law will certainly not happen. It is also our view that we are going forward with the normity of a problem which we cannot even control by law, so it is a matter of morality and the integrity of politicians, therefore, and the behaviour of political parties, and this cannot be regulated by any law until the end. We agree, once again, with those who say that how many solutions to this problem or these issues will be in the change of electoral laws, so I repeat it for us is a solution to introduce a direct choice of commissioners. Yes, and also to change the electoral system for it to be combined. That half of the council members of the representative body are therefore elected in the constituency units, and half of them are elected through the party lists. Therefore, to establish some balance between the interests of political parties or other stakeholders, as well as individuals who would perform with their own persons. So on the election lists. So, all in order to make sure that the candidate they're giving a vote to is also their representative, so in that representative body. It also takes precedence in forming the headship of the representative body, not to be confused with which Mr. Lesar may have warned. I'm talking about the leadership of the representative body, not the executive authorities, that it has an option which, in its highest mandate, which I think would be correct, so that we all accept together this way of conduct. Also define the 5% electoral threshold. According to the 1992 law, it was possible, therefore, that the law states that the government is involved in the division of the political parties they have won, not participating, which won less than 5% of the mandates. The law says that they participate, which won over 5%, but even happened that some parties won 6% of the vote, and could not participate, did not have their own representative in power, which I do not think is good. This is a large number of votes, which often ends with Dont's method in political parties' accounts, which are often the opposite of those voters who have given support to certain candidates. So we think that it should start, that we should start reforming electoral legislation not only as far as this local level is concerned. The same is true of the election for the Croatian Parliament. I think the same principle should be put in place for people to choose both people and persons, not just political parties. So hopefully this year we'll move on to these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54625	Thank you. On behalf of the DC Club, HSLS, LS's esteemed representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54626	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here are two days here in the Croatian Parliament we have a kind of public examination of conscience. Obviously, there's a lot in us that's been accumulated, so we said what we said. But in the end, it seems to me that it wasn't a key thing, a key problem that was actually bothering us here. This bill of amendment and supplementation of this law he holds one small shift forward. But in fact he has not solved or can solve what the real problems of these 15 years of Croatian democracy are. Obviously, this proud knot, which has long been present on the Croatian political social scene, requires a far stronger, stronger, better mechanism, one better quality and better law, which could eventually be heard from individual proposals here by colleagues to come out of this kind of problem that is kind of breaking our heads both as political parties and as a society as a whole. We're not here to say, I'm holding on to a real hotspot, a hotspot of trouble, but in some ways we've identified places where they're standing and where the problems are. If we now make it easier for those who have made it easier for their conscience here and for us to keep it in this political struggle, we still have one permanent shift in this political work. There have been a lot of words here about trade, the famous trade in mandates, the mandates. It seems to me that this only helped the councilman means the holder, the temporary holder of the mandate not to be harassed anymore by his political party or any other group to support one or another solution to the relevant representative body. I believe it will continue, that we still haven't solved the danger of trading the mandate. On the contrary, it seems to me that now they will be perhaps more sophisticated, more sophisticated trade procedures in terms of mandates themselves. Let's just say we're starting from the citizen himself, what the citizen is interested in, we didn't find out during this two-day debate who those who made the biggest contribution to trading mandates, who these people, who these groups are, that we know ourselves actually to protect ourselves from them in the future. So we don't have them, we didn't name them here. It seems to me that it should have been one of the contributions to the debate itself. And yet we do not know, we did not emphasize here who those who prevented and prevented the elected member of the representative body from carrying out their constitutional and legal duties. So these are the shortcomings of this debate. I believe that the right solution to what most colleagues have mentioned here, which means one new legislation, means a new electoral law. We have proposed as a democratic centre here a law on the financing of political parties. We believe that this law should also find its place here in the Croatian Parliament, so that in future such a monster that has been bothering us for a long time would somehow be resolved. I'm saying, here's what I'm saying, and I'm saying that this is a little shift, but we haven't solved this burning issue with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54627	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the SDSS Club the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54628	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After this experience in the past almost a year, and in fact, in the past half of the year, it is quite clear that in the behaviour of the government, and especially in the constitution of the government, not all the funds are allowed. And from what was happening in different environments, it manifested itself in one such philosophy to get our own piece of power, to maintain power, to form power, all resources are allowed. From blackmailing people, buying people, or manipulating them in a wide variety of ways, the system of resignations, discussions about legality or illegality. Those who say the whole thing should and could have stopped earlier are right. As counterpart Leko said in this morning's debate on the principle of his own jurisdiction, i.e. the Central State Administration Office had every right to act and protect legal mechanisms. In this case and on the basis of such action, it is certain that certain types of party security measures for the maintenance of congregations, or assembly meetings, etc. would not be formed. And in that sense, it is a failure of the central state administration office because it is quite clear in the law it has a foothold for its action. However, it is clear that the failure of this office created a space for a kind of political games which then resulted in the fact that we had to reach out to the authority of the Academic Community, or the Faculty of Law, which should have given us a kind of external authentic interpretation of whether such political games were allowed or not after we allowed them. Well, it was clear they'd say they weren't allowed. It is also clear that we could have asked for it much earlier, and it is clear that we could have done so without the demands of that kind. And in that sense, it is one of the places where the competent state authorities fail to carry out and ensure on the basis of supervision, ensure the legal functioning of different institutions, in this case the institution of the establishment of municipal, urban and county authorities. The second thing, of course, is a matter of criminal persecution and indeed in some cases there were grounds or at least justifiable doubts that USKOK can act and that, for its part, what the central state administration office cannot do, and that is to prevent a kind of criminal activity in this sphere, so on. political games. And for that there is certainly still an opportunity no longer as great as there was a few months ago, but with adequate action it is quite certain that it is possible to determine whether in some cases there were different types of blackmail, threats, and purchases. And in the end, what was also talked about here this morning is the question of that moral dimension. To what extent and in what way the councilman's mandates, in this case the councilor and then, of course, MPs, contribute to a kind of political morality or a kind of political ethics. It is quite certain that what happened and what we have allowed to be brought is, in fact, to a good extent, a weak moral dimension or a weak ethical dimension has made it even more effective and even smaller. And finally allow me, Mr. President, to agree with those who are referring to a series of situations from Eastern Slavonia to Istria, to say that it is not acceptable but that it is not good for the functioning of a stable local government if it will gather and collect council members to ensure that most people do not respect the fact of the will of the majority. And it is not normal to do so in Knin, it is not normal to do so in Plaška, it is not normal for those parties that get most of the mandates on this or on that basis to seek to exclude responsibility for the functioning of local self-government regardless of what kind of political orientation it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54629	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives, the esteemed representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54630	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since I haven't had a chance to discuss it on Friday, here's what I'm going to try to use these five minutes and say a few words. That this proposed solution raises more questions than it solves problems for two reasons. The first reason is that the proposed solution is less precise than the existing formulation of Article 7(1) of the Law where it is said: "and on the date of delivery of written resignations according to the delivery rules prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act." If it is to be arranged, that this must happen no later than 24 hours before the session is held then it should be added to the existing formulation, that is our suggestion and our proposal. The second reason is the possibility of withdrawing the resignation as proposed by the new paragraph 2 of Article 7 is not permitted because the end of the term of office has already taken place in accordance with Article 1(1) of the same Article and has already begun to run the term of office of the Deputy Councillor under Article 8 of the Law. The term of office of the deputy member of the representative body shall begin from the moment when the proposed member of the list determines from the order of unselected candidates a person who will replace the member to whom he has suspended his mandate or we have a case of an independent list where he says that the new member is going in line, so he does not need to be particularly determined but practically read from the list. In the light of the decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 84(1), point 5. The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, National Journal, No. 106/03. These solutions are the result of a different regulation of these issues compared to the beginning and termination of the term of office of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In order to ensure the authenticity of the resignation which would be an expression of the will of the councilor, Article 7 of indent 1 should include the obligation to hand over his written resignation or the possibility of a council member to hand over written resignations. The formulation of this provision could read: If he resigns, on the day of his personal surrender of written resignation or by giving authority to a person to surrender his resignation, not later than 24 hours before the meeting of the representative body. In relation to other issues governed by the law, however, the situation is now not a possibility to discuss it. What else do I want to say? No, I apologize in advance, participated in last debate on Friday, so maybe I'll do some things again or make a point about what was going on. I believe that this interpretation that the government has made in the past 15 days, 20 days, is indeed one attempt to sell fog and deceive citizens and the electorate. There should be a clear and loud saying that this institute so-called. Bianca's resignation was introduced by the HDZ in 1992. I personally had to sign the document of the bianco resignation when I signed my candidacy or the application for the County House of the Parliament, so in parliamentary elections. I had to do the same thing in '95. It's two years, or two election cycles I remember for sure, and I personally testify that I had to sign off on the Bianca resignation institute. Thus, the Institute of Bianca's resignation is neither the wetlands nor the other political options of the political party but the Croatian Democratic Union in the very beginnings of democracy. So then, as a candidate, I objected and publicly made it clear that it was not correct, that there was no basis in the law. But if I wanted to be a candidate, I had to sign it. And Mrs. Petricevic, you did it too if you were a candidate. Therefore, I know in advance that you will come forward and try to correct yourself, and the Rules of Procedure do not give me the opportunity to answer you. I responsibly claim that this institute was introduced by the Croatian Democratic Community. That it was conducted by at least two election cycles in the 93th and 95th parliamentary elections and perhaps later. And therefore, the political parties and the political options that are now being shoved into the pillar of shame and prove to be non-democrats, such as the parties that break the law, as parties applying the rules of the way and methods that are haired with morality do not really stand. So they're just copying what's HDZ's wetlands. As far as security democracy is concerned, Mr Kramaric spoke about it last time. Protection democracy in the Osijek-Baranja County was introduced by Mr Kramaric when he brought 20 security guards to the City Hall this summer trying to prevent the establishment of city authorities in line with the election results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54631	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54632	I have to say in advance that I forgive all my colleagues to Glavas because they are, he is, indeed, both naughty and funny, but he knows very well that in no way, I am correcting this very false assumption that I am the one who introduced the security democracy. I don't use such methods even though these guards allowed him to sit where he wasn't supposed to sit because he wasn't a councilman of the City Council at the time because he resigned because it was incompatible to be at the same time, or he froze his council seat. ... Looks like it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54633	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54634	Mr Kramaric injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 209. So he raised the institute to correct the incorrect allegations, and he didn't correct anything, but he made it false. So he abused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54635	You're very charming with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. And respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54636	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I just wanted to say that this whole "bianco" thing is definitely not true. I've participated four times since 93, so far in local elections. I've never signed any bianco resignations. And in fact, I also wanted to commend these HDZ deputies, just a little bit, and I wanted to commend HDZ representatives because they were the most honest. They have always founded a new party and thus are politically euthanized. Well, fair enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54637	The same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54638	Mr Markovanovic injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 because he did not correct anything. I didn't say he had to sign, but I said I had to sign under the cover of HDZ democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54639	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Dear MPs, they were indeed signed resignations but the same as only one moral effect, and the party made it clear that it was legally worthless resignations without any effect. And you are your contribution to democracy, to resign and I thank you for the trust you have made to contribute to the democracy and the resignations that you had to sign. Are you insulting the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54640	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54641	Does State Secretary Mr. Palaric want to explain the proposal even briefly as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54642	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have been discussing the amendment of the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of the local and regional self-government units for two days. And one significant part of the discussion went in this direction that he wanted to prove that the law was not necessary. That the existing law is clear and they wonder how we haven't noticed it before. And they forget at the same time that they were tolerated in different variants of the bianco resignations and they stuck to the majority with those bianco resignations, that they were not released in different situations, different options for different council members who were deprived of the term of office to participate in the work of the representative body. The central state office must apply the law, it must apply the case law, but must also apply administrative practice. Once published, once a legal position is taken, it must commit not only what it has been busy over the past two years but all the authorities in charge of local self-government that have taken it since the law was passed. So there has always been a problem with the resignations since 2001, since the law was passed, different interpretations have been given. It was all in favor of grammatical interpretation. So, the moment the resignation is arranged, the product is an effect. In one opinion, it is said that the subsequent withdrawal and withdrawal of the orderly delivery and one of the resignations received is not possible, therefore, the subsequent withdrawal and recall is not possible in orderly and the reasons for the abuse, delusions and others which are often cited as reasons for the withdrawal of the resignation cannot be relevant. So, we've had in, I won't, I mean there's this solution to such, a legal position that resignation produces the effect of the moment when it's being arranged, regardless of who's being arranged. This seemed questionable to us, and so we asked for the opinion of science so that we could, because the government was discussing the problem and when it proposed this Law took the view that the mandate belonged to the councilman and we are now glad that we all agree on it. And she wanted to clarify, install mechanisms so that the bianco resignations that circle can be eliminated. We went in two readings to find it and perhaps even a better formulation than Vladina, perhaps even that formula that the councilman must personally submit if possible, but which is with someone who is in the hospital, which is with someone who has been on the road for 3 months or I don't know what, but we will sum up this debate, we will read a phonogram and thank everyone who has purposed to improve and clarify the situation in the future about these paragraphs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54643	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54644	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Palarić, the secretary of state, incorrectly claims that they were different interpretations, it is contrary to the real situation, and it is contrary to your exact statement. You knew that the bianko resignations were worthless legal paper and for such an assessment you should not have asked for neither the opinion of the law school nor the interpretation of anyone, you as Parliament president have now directly said that you knew that the bianko resignations were completely worthless legal paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54645	For the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54646	There is no difference in the democracy of representation or council, all representatives of citizens in representative bodies and nothing else, Mr. President, don't let yourself be disavowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54647	I will not disaugurate myself because I only know that the central authorities of one then ruling and now the ruling parties have made such a decision by neither being able nor ever used in the Croatian Parliament towards MPs who have signed the bianko resignations, but. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54648	The State Secretary says his office only applies law, court practice and administrative practice. That's not true. You were asked yesterday by the press what you intend to do, you replied to ask the prime minister. You did not specify court practice, nor law, nor administrative practice, you did not have your own position to take, you said ask the prime minister. Therefore, your office exclusively applies neither the law nor the practice but the will of Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u54649	What the Secretary of State in Government will do but act in accordance with the Government and the Prime Minister. Part of the government acts as government, acts as prime minister, as was the former government, as was the previous government, as will the future government. ... It's part of the government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm concluding a debate on this point. Thank you, Secretary of State, thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let's move on. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes for, one abstention and 30 against, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57173	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues The election for the election, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament at the 36th session held on 27 January 2006 was unanimously set out by the Proposal for a decision to elect the Vice-President of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. [[/Intruder: A few more seconds!]] Zvonimir Sabati is elected vice-president of the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57174	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. Who's in? To vote. How about a score? With 91 votes for and 2 abstentions made the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57175	At the 36th session held on 27 January 2006, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Croatian Parliament's Committee on Legislatives. Zvonimir Sabati is elected member of the Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57176	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Let's get on with it. The result? With 86 votes in favour and 7 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. We're done voting. Continuing Wednesday at 9:30 with a agenda item on Amendments and additions to the selection of representative bodies. The MPs know the order. Elections, appointments and resolutions. End point. I ask the board president, Nevenka Majdenic, to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57178	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! At the 37th session held on 9 February 2006, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament Milanka Opačić is dismissed. Secondly, Ivana Posavec-Krivec is elected as a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57179	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 93 votes for and 1 abstention instead of a representative of Milanka Opačić for the mandate commission goes to Ms. Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57180	Thank you. At the 37th session held on 9 February 2006, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to resolve the election of members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament Milanka Opačić and secondly, the member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is elected Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57181	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57182	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established the proposal for a decision on the selection of the Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. The vice-president of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament is elected Milanka Opačić instead of the late representative of Snježana Bige-Friganovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57183	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for, 1 abstention of the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57184	At the 37th session held on 9 February 2006, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Marijan Mlinarić is elected member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57185	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 votes for a unanimously accepted proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57186	At the 37th session held on 9 February 2006, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. Marijan Mlinarić is elected member of the Board of Representatives and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57187	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? With 92 votes in favour and one abstentioned proposed decision. What else is there?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57188	At the 37th session held on 9 February 2006, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament and a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Marijan Mlinarić is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57189	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. The young forces are outsmarting. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote Experienced, yes, they go experienced. [[The intruders don't understand.]] The result? With 89 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we did what we needed to do for the vote. Elections, appointments and resolutions. I'm asking Committee President Nevenka Majdenic to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57191	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the 38th session held on 15 February 2006, the Board of Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament Emil Tomljanovic is dismissed. And secondly, Rade Ivas is elected member of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57192	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 94 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57193	Thank you. At the 38th session held on 15 February 2006, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect the chairman of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. The president of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee is elected Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57194	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 94 on the contrary, no proposed decision has been taken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57195	Thank you. At its 39th session held on 17 February 2006, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the appointed member of the National Committee. First, a member of the National Committee Zlatko Tomčić and secondly, as a member of the National Committee, is named Josip Frisčić, president of the Croatian Peasant Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57196	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? With 92 votes for and 3 abstentions made the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57197	The selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament is held at the 39th session 17 February 2006 unanimously established the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. [[A little louder, a little bit, just a little bit for 10 octaves more.]] A member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is elected Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57198	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting the motion, the motion for a decision. The result? 92 for, 3 abstentions. With that, most of them made the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57199	At the 39th session held on 17 February 2006, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Rade Ivas is elected member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57200	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? 87 for five abstentions. The proposed decision shall be taken by that majority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57201	At the 39th session held on 17 February 2006, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to resolve the president and members of the Committee of the Awards "Vladimir Nazor". First, the president of the "Vladimir Nazor" award committee is relieved of the duties of academician Milan Moš, president of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Secondly, members of the "Vladimir Nazor" award committee are relieved, Tonko Ninić, Tonko Marojevic, Jagoda Maja Martincevic, Goran Grgic, Pedja Vukić, Krešimir Nemec, Ante Petelić and Jerko Rošin.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57202	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 for and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57203	At the 39th session held on 17 February 2006, the Committee for Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Committee of the Awards "Vladimir Nazor". First, the president of the "Vladimir Nazor" Award is named academician Milan Moš, president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Secondly, as members of the "Vladimir Nazor" Award Committee, Goran Grgić, actor, Krešimir Nemet, literary historian, Jagoda Maja Martincevic, music history professor, Tonko Marojevic, art historian, Ante Petelić, filmologist, professor at the Academy of Drama Arts, Jerko Rosin, graduate architect, Damir Mataušić, professor at the Academy of Fine Arts, the Cypriot Department, and Tonko Ninić, professor at the Music Academy in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-01-27-0.u57204	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? The proposed decision was adopted with 85 votes for and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. And I'm closing the 18th session. The next one will most likely be March 1st. Now we're going to the next two points I'm proposing a merger. One is – - The proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the human resources policy and the overall state in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, with a report on the implementation of the defence plan and defence preparations Where the proposal for an annual report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the other – the proposal for a conclusion on the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up a proposal for defence and national security strategies – the proposal for the Association of HSP representatives is a joint discussion based on clubs for 20 minutes. Consent? Consent to the unification of the debate? You don't agree to a grouping of debates? Mr. Kajin, Your Honor, the question is addressed to the esteemed representative Kovacevic, and you answer to him, are you Alte rego or what? You're not a fiancian pronoun. Comrade Kovačević, come in.
