ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74262	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You shall be presented with a report submitted by the Agency in accordance with Article 21. The law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which actually consists of three separate reports, last year three unrelated institutions to oversee different parts of the financial sector of the non-bank financial sector. All three institutions such as HAGENA, the Insurance Supervisory Directorate and the Securities Commission were in charge of supervision, supervisory, supervisory, therefore non-bank financial sector, and as you know at the end of last year this House adopted the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. In your report, therefore, there are three detailed descriptions of all three sectors that have supervised the three institutions, and I would just like to point out that this sector, the total financial sector today has about 340 billion kuna, which is about 50% more than gross domestic product. The assets of the non-banking sector now controlled by this united agency, and last year all three institutions are about 65% of gross domestic product or a total of around 130 billion and total assets of the non-bank sector. In achieving its objectives, this agency has the first objective of stability of the financial system and the second is to monitor the legality of the work of supervisory entities. The Agency is carrying out various activities, i.e. according to the instruments stemming from the Agency Act, and I would also like to point out that at least six financial conglomerates operate in Croatia. The process of harmonising the legislative framework with the legal gains of the European Union is under way, and what is most important for us is that this sector, the financial sector, is growing annually at an average rate of 11%, while at the same time gross domestic product is growing at less than 5% which requires even greater engagement of supervisory institutions. In this case, we are talking about the agency, on the other hand, the banking sector is in charge of the Croatian National Bank, so there are two institutions that oversee the non-bank and banking sectors. Given the importance of all three reports, and now the position of this agency and all that is described, so all the activities that are in the report before you, I ask you to adopt this report, and I would also like to point out that next year will be a single report that will now be working on a united agency. I would also like to point out that in the nine months that have proved to be justified unification, the agency has had a lot of work and that we are the most recognized through this process of taking over Pliva and that, therefore, for the pleasure of this Parliament, the overall business community will end this process in a transparent and legal manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74263	We've got this now, because there's no minister yet, so let's get to this point. ... The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74264	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. On 1 January 2006, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency took over as a legal follower of the Commission's powers and tasks for securities, the Pension Funds and Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Insurance Companies' Supervisory Directorate. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency developed a joint report on the work of those institutions for 2005. According to our assessment, the report is methodologically and contained in quality, therefore it would point out the following for those institutions. The Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia during 2005 carried out the regulation and supervision of the securities market in the Republic of Croatia and acted actively and systematically throughout the capital market. In addition, it approved 20 applications for the approval of a prospectus in the issue of shares to a public or private offer and resolved 43 requests for the publication of bids for takeover from which 42 applications were granted and one rejected. Of these, 6 requirements relate to bank takeover, 9 requests were made to issuers whose majority of shares were sold from the Croatian Privatisation Fund's portfolio. In these downloads, I would draw attention to the takeover of "Sunish Hvar" d.d. Hvar whose takeover process established the market so-called "market". a public private partnership between the Republic of Croatia and the "Orco Group" from Luxembourg. In 2005, 192 million kunas were paid to all companies that had made an offer to take over small shareholders who had stored their shares. The Commission refused to grant the commercial company "SN Holding" Zagreb a request for the publication of tenders for the acquisition of the public limited company "Liburnia Riviera of hotels" d.d. Zagreb, i.e. Opatija and with this solution has annulled all transactions of the transfer of shares of the issuers of Liburnia from the Croatian Privatisation Fund to "SN Holding" d.d. Zagreb and "Dom Holding" Zagreb. During 2005, 56 open-end investment funds, 6 closed investment funds, the Homeland War Fund and members of their families and pension funds were held, and 22 investment fund management companies. So the total assets that the funds had at 31.12.2005 amounted to 12 billion 480 million kuna. The Commission also monitored activities on the Zagreb and Varazdin Stock Exchange daily. In the Republic of Croatia there were 40 authorised companies that had a valid permit to carry out securities transactions, 25 brokerage companies and 15 banks. The Commission also adopted 54 solutions which ordered the removal of established illegalities and irregularities in the business of those companies and ordered measures to be taken to eliminate them. On the basis of the Commission's application, the courts of the Republic of Croatia made sixty-seven rulings and resolutions. The Agency for the Control of Pension Funds and Insurance in 2005 carried out continuous supervision of the operations of pension funds and companies, pension insurance companies and of the central insurance register. During surveillance, no major infringements of the legal provisions of the observed minor irregularities in the work of pension societies have been identified. These pension companies irregularities, within the prescribed deadlines, have corrected the company. The supervision of the work of Regos and the pension insurance company have not identified the illegality and irregularities. It is worth noting that on the Croatian pension market in 2005 there were four compulsory pension funds under the management of compulsory pension companies owned by Zagreb Bank, Erste Banka, Privredne banka Zagreba, Reifeisen banka. The number of members of compulsory pension companies increased by 87 thousand 881 persons during 2005 so that the total number of members of insurance companies amounted to 1 million and 248 thousand 935. Mandatory pension funds during 2005 have been paid 3 billion and 100 million kunas of contributions and made contributions from the investment of the capital of compulsory pension funds from the past years. Net assets at the end of the year were 11 billion and 700 million kuna of which 10 billion and 670 million kuna were invested in securities and deposits. Mandatory pension funds continue to invest the most on the domestic capital market in state and other... Of the assets invested, 89% account for investments in domestic assets while investment in foreign assets amounts to 11%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The investment was made in the 2005 Mirox index of 6.78%. During that year, there were also six open voluntary pension funds that included 51 000 and 158 insurance companies and had 206 million kuna capital. The majority of the assets were also invested on the domestic capital market in government bonds, porter bonds, investment funds of 88.54% while 5.65% were invested in foreign assets. The contributions from these funds ranged from 5.13% to 11.06%. Also during 2005, there were eight closed voluntary pension funds owned by employers, trade unions and independent unions. There were 5 thousand and 336 members. The property of these funds, the closed funds is 21.5 million kuna and the contributions they made from... From 0.52% to 15%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This segment of the pension market is the smallest but it is expected to see further growth in both the number of funds and memberships and the assets they manage because the growing number of employers decides to be the sponsor of closed voluntary pension funds. I must point out that the investment of pension funds in the Croatian financial market has increased trade in domestic securities both in the state and in the corporate sector. This suggests that in the coming years, pension funds will become powerful institutional investors whose investments will allow significant economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. According to an estimate by 2012, there will be more than 30 billion kuna in these pension funds. As regards the Directorate for the Control of the Society for the Insurance of Characteristics of that market in 2005, the continuation of the high growth rates in the non-life insurance segment was 7.8% and 20.8% in the life insurance segment. The total premium of insurance is 10% growth compared to the previous year. In 2005, insurance companies made a total charged premium of 7 billion 350 million out of which 5 billion and 450 million relate to non-life insurance premiums and a billion and 900 million kuna to life insurance premiums. 23 insurance companies and two reinsurance companies operated in our country during 2005. During the year, the merger and takeover of companies continued so that two companies ceased to exist as legal entities and one company was established. The ownership structure changed significantly so that fourteen companies became property with majority foreign capital. The company's insurance activity at the end of the year was 16 billion and 600 million kuna and was 15% higher than the previous year. Of the total value of the asset, 81.5% refers to investments. 12% on claims. 4.2% on other assets and 2.2% on immaterial property. The pasive structure is dominated by technical reserves with 75%. Investment in the funds of a mathematical reserve that is otherwise formed from the premiums of life insurance according to the provisions of the law and the companies are obliged to invest them in the Croatian financial market. In most cases, these assets are invested in the following: in securities 4.3 billion, in banks' deposits of 678 million kuna, in real estate with a fixed income of 257 million kuna and in other investments of 498 million kuna. So the largest, highest amount of 75% was invested in securities on the Croatian market. Other available assets have been invested by companies in land and buildings, securities, deposits, loans secured by publishing law and other valuable assets. The insurance company control directorate during 2005 actively supervised the work of companies, insurance companies. The supervision identified irregularities and 10 requests were submitted for the initiation of the infringement procedure and two orders were issued for the remuneration of the guaranteed capital and several orders for the removal of irregularities related to the investment of funds. As a result of non-compliance with the tasks in two cases, appropriate measures have been taken, and one consent has been refused to perform the duties of a member of the management of the company. As a result of the lack of guarantee capital, an authorisation for the work of an insurance company has been withdrawn. I would like to conclude that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this united report for those institutions of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74265	Thank you. For the IDS Club, a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74266	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Director of HANFA, the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives, I will rely solely on pension funds here in this material. So that side 105, means the company for managing and dealing with pension funds 106, the assets, the contributions of 107 funds, the voluntary pension fund management company 108, the assets, the offering of 110 and that I do not now list this site. As my predecessor said, we all know clearly that we have four funds. We have the AZ run by Alliantz, we have the Erste Blue Fund, we have the Business Bank of Zagreb PBZ behind which is the Italian capital of Intese, we have the Austrian Raiffaissen Bank or Raiffaissen Fund. In 2004, the funds were the only one to receive two billion 741 million kuna in that year alone. The net assets from 31.12.2004 amounted to 7 billion 913 million kuna, and by the end of 2005 we see this report that has already grown to 11.7 billion kuna, and what is the essence of this whole story is the structure of the investment of the total assets of these funds, where out of 11.7 billion kuna money is mostly deposited or invested in securities. In some ways mobilized mainly through government bonds or ammunition bonds and thus the clear risk is largely avoided. It's good, it's kind of bad on the other side. It's a small income. But at least when pension funds are due to that income are constant and amounts are safe. We see that only 350 million kunas have been invested in shares since 2004. Not $342 million. So we see that he's playing here safely. I said that's good, that's bad, but I only say that, and that's why I only answered my word to say that at a time when, in some ways, Croatia's total dissales are moving towards the end of the debt to pensioners, or as the Constitutional Court of Reimbursement of pensioners, sometimes these funds may show a little more courage around the INA, and the next day, I don't know, don't God if someone remembers privatizing Croatia's electricity. It is clear that something else when shares on the Croatian capital market are de facto not allowed to go. However, I would also like to say whose property are these pension funds? Clearly, they're owned by investors and the question is, who's in charge of them? Understandably to run by foreigners, so we have this Alliantz, we have Erste, we have the Business Bank of Zagreb which we privatized there in 1999. We have a clear Raiffaissen fund. I said it's about extremely fast-growing funds. In 2004, it was 8 billion kuna and 2005. 11.7 billion kuna. On the other hand, owned by the Croatian bank. Clearly, 95% of the same are in the hands of strangers. It's about hundreds of billions of kunas of money that turns in one way or another before, over the same. Whose property are private investment funds? Today holdinzi, I don't know, like... The "Home" fund also mentioned here because of Lebanon, which failedly tried to swallow Liburnia in some way and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Clearly, these funds are mostly in the hands of foreigners. What am I saying? And the same goes for HT, for INA in one part and so on. That the state must clearly protect national property. Let the national property not be sold, and let not the citizens simply be prevented from managing their own, according to their own opinion that it is the mostportunistic of them. That's actually the point. You have, we have a situation that we can't sell, say, 500 meters of land, but the state sells the bank without a problem. We can't sell 500 square meters, I don't know those crops, but the state will have to sell them to, say, the INA. You can't sell 500 metres of that field, but the state can sell Liburnia, Pliva or what I know, if it's even a good example of Pliva because she's long ago found herself on the London Stock Exchange that if I'm not mistaken in '96. They're almost taken over by strangers. That's the point. However, we see the offerings come true. In 2004, this amounted to 5.82% of cca and yields were made in 2005. It means more than banks. And the funds, which is only important, are safe, no matter what they are in some way, we see money factories, at least for the members of the clear administration, including employees, etc. It's even dared to say about the most privileged jobs. Once again, members of the Supervisory Boards are also party to these institutions at this time. The board members are still ours, as if it's changing things now. But what is also interesting? These are, say, voluntary pension funds, but unfortunately these things don't look so good. We have only 30 thousand and 43 members here, so those who don't want their pension to happen to them are all thousands of 244 kunas, or as Lesar said yesterday 900 and some kunas in 2009 unless the legal regulations and so on change. The new pensioners don't match the old ones. So on today's pension day, these people are thousands of 244 kunas, these new pensioners. The old pensioners account for a thousand 928 kuna, meaning some 700 kuna, with 423 thousand 34 out of 760 thousand old pensioners still earning the right to return on average to 27 thousand kuna per person. So someone less, someone more, but let's just say it's some average now. For the end of foreign capital absolutely rules Croatia. That's how he mastered that pension system. Before that, he reigned in banking, and once he reigned in banking, it just goes in order like when the domino dice fall. Okay, come on, at least today the banks aren't going down like it was in the '90s. But Croatian sovereignty left only the flag, coat of arms, anthem, football team, but almost all football players play in foreign clubs anyway. Here's what's here. We formed this system, it seems not for ourselves, for others. And I'm going back to the beginning where everything is said to be successful. That's right. It's successful, but it's not too comforting that there's nothing in this country that we can control ourselves. Of course that report should be accepted as such. To be honest, I'm not too afraid of foreign capital because I'm aware either they'll come or our people will follow it but sometimes I'm bothered by the hypocrisy of the government, for example. You can't sell 500 square meters of field, but the state can do INA, it can swim, I can't know, and then there's really something wrong, and then there's really a question of who's normal, not to say crazy. What may have affected me lately is the statement by Mr. Ante Sabopol, director of HANFA, who said what is called this conference of the Zagreb Stock Exchange in Rovinj. I literally want to quote his statement that the media is passing on, that no one will ask anyone else in Croatia for the first million dollars you've earned, I suppose you've been thinking about the euro or the stamps, not swearing, but for everyone else you want, because it's past the time of non-transparent trade, almost a quote, literally so, the media has passed on your statement. We all know that that's how he was out there in the '60s, in the '70s saying onsis, but that's not how those who had to oversee Onasis said it. But we'll also agree that there was another country there at another time, and everything that makes the top of Croatian politics, I don't know, it's some political absurd, I guess, in order to amnestize all the banditism through the conversion and privatisation that took place in the '90s. Interestingly, the statement by Mr. Samodol, director of HANFA, came out after an anthologically that the revision of the conversion in Croatia had fulfilled its purpose. What I certainly welcome, however, when it comes to HANFA, is your engagement around Liburni Hotel, and also about Pliva where we see that both Sir Covic and shareholders have earned well, and the state has earned some two-and-a-half billion kuna, but Actavis, who was present in the Croatian market from this country or from that company over 100 million kuna. It's the same story I guess we should open. However, after the sale of Pliva from tomorrow it appears that the biggest loss will be the Croatian General Hospital, better said their owners, are the counties. Because I doubt that after he invested nearly 15 billion kunas in that transaction, Barr will wait for the drug to be paid off as is now common between 180 and 300 days. Why am I saying that? In order for the Minister of Finance to really engage in some way to think about how to simply go through this situation of financing general hospitals where, as their founders, more accurately, countys that regularly have incomes are incomparably less than general hospital revenues. There is no general hospital in Croatia that has no enormous dubiosis of the one in Sibenik Zadar, Pula, Dubrovnik, which I know where everything is not. As a rule, even these dubiosiss go beyond the budget sizes of their founders, i.e. County and I'm afraid what nobody really wants is going to happen to us, which is that this health care system is going to collapse. So much of Pliva's fate was more than interesting, provided we could keep it there for 90 and some years in our possession. However, with this I will say once again that this report on the work of the Commission on securities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Agency for the Control of Pension Funds and Insurance and the Supervisory Directorate for the Insurance Society for 2005 IDS accepts this one review primarily of pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74267	Thank you. The HSS Club, a respected representative of Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74268	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, President of the Board, HANFA and colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a very specific annual report for 2005 submitted to us by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency to the representatives and the Croatian Parliament, with the exception of HANFA. The report is also specifically due to the construction by one state institution, which refers to the operation of three other state institutions. Institutions such as the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia, the Pension Fund and Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Insurance Society's Supervisory Directorate. As said in the introduction of the report, these three institutions ceased their work on 1 January 2006, and the work was initiated by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, HANFA as their legal successor. She made a joint report for 2005 on the work of the extinguished institutions according to her commitments and delivered it to her, as the law requires, the Croatian Parliament for consideration. Most of the report is dedicated to the work of the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia, which is understandable, given that its and its partial work and competence was far greater than the other two institutions. According to the report itself, the Securities Commission of the Republic of Croatia during 2005 carried out its basic task, which is an effective regulation and supervision of marketable securities in the Republic of Croatia, has actively and systematically acted on the entire capital market. This assessment of the commission's work on the very beginning of the report is also withdrawn through a full review of the commission's work, which I reiterated, written by the new management of the newly established agency. Not to worry too much about the numbers of solutions issued regarding the issue of corporate bonds, commercial records, the issue of shares to public or private offerings, the takeover of stock companies, the approval of the work of new investment funds, the supervision of a large number of participants by their supervision, and, under its supervision, the Commission had two existing stock exchanges in Croatia, the central depository agency, 25 brokerage companies, 15 banks, 102 brokers, 47 investment advisers, 56 open and 6 closed investment funds and all stock companies in the first stock exchange, as well as the census of public stock companies. I would like to highlight only two events from last year, which are the takeover of "Sunish Hvar" and the takeover of "Liburnia Riviera Hotels" d.d. Opatija. Downloading "Sun-Hvar" again privatisation in Croatian way, public private partnership, and for Hvar and Hvar shame and irreparable damage at least in the first year of work to such a acquired public partnership with countless hotels that have remained closed, with countless hotels that have failed to restore their capacity within the deadline, with a ridiculous and almost mocking offer of a swimming pool that this year has charged up to 700 kuna per day bed on one common deck chair without any content. Shame on a tourist town like Hvar, shame on Croatia's tourism, shame on all of us. Two guests were on the beach every day, and tried to sell the story of a big economic, economic and any other boom of Hvar tourism with a public private partnership where great white-world billionaires came to invest their money, and I assure you you need to comb that contract well and see how much of it was invested and if anything was ever invested. I've seen what I've seen this year on Hvar, nothing has been invested, one hotel has been makeupd and something improved and prices have increased by 500 times what they were, by 500% than they were in the previous period when these great white-world controllers were not on Hvar. And I call on this opportunity to let go of such work and to let people who know how to deal with tourism, who for years, 140 years have been engaged in tourism, to continue their work in the way they've done so far and to stop selling to us and to sell to us what they really don't know and why they came to rob this people and rob all of us, and especially here I will look back at the case of taking over the "Liburnia Riviera Hotel" commission has given us a very brave, but on the law-founded solution of a decision which I recall annulled under a) the transfer transaction of 182 thousand 152 shares of the publisher "Liburnia Riviera Hotel" d.d. Opatija from the Croatian Privatisation Fund Zagreb at the company "SN Holding" d.d. Zagreb and under b) transfer transaction 72 thousand 258 shares to publishers "Liburnija Riviera hotels" d.d. Opatija from the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the company "Dom Holding" d.d. Zagreb, and ordered the central deposit agency to transfer those shares from the account "SN Holding" and "Dom Holding" again to the account of the Croatian Privatisation Fund without delay. With such, I repeat, a very brave and well-founded solution, the members of the commission helped, and not as it speculated in the media, pointed out to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its prime minister by accusing the then president of the commission of even buying his chair in the future new agency, but prevented probably another of the many robberies in the Croatian way. It is interesting here to point out that just then the chairman of the commission, by the way, a member of the HSS and then both present and two members of the commission who voted in favour of such a solution, resolved their duties with 1 January of this year, and the government found no reason for their renaming in the new agency, while the only member of the commission who voted against such a solution was given a seat as a member of the administration in the newly established agency. Congratulations! And just as counterpart Cain was saying, is this perhaps a reward for what he had just wanted to take part in, I would say, privatisation, that is, in our way, that was mostly against the interests of Croatian and Croatian people, not for the account of someone, or for the same people he was supposed to stand for. A positive opinion on the work for 2005 was given by the HANFA Administration not only to the Croatian Securities Commission but also to the Financial, Pension Funds and Insurance and Insurance Supervisory Agency. Therefore, we in the HSS will support this 2005 report on the work of the Commission for Securities of the Republic of Croatia, the Agency for the Control of Pension Funds and Insurance and the Supervisory Directorates of Insurance Companies, and the future will show whether the unification of these three agencies, institutions in view of their very good and multi-annually successful work was necessary or not. The HANFA report on its work for 2006 is likely to give a partial answer to this question. To conclude, we at HSS will support the report that we have been presented with all these reserves that I was talking about in the very review of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74269	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74270	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. President of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, colleagues and colleagues. I consider this report significant because it shows the degree of development of the financial market, but also the results of the supervision that are important for the stability of the financial system, for the taking of measures and actions and for the preservation of that financial system. The data listed in this Report speak of one very intense activity and on the securities market, on the pension market and on the insurance market, and therefore it is extremely important to implement measures to remove any irregularities. During 2005, 15 new open investment funds were established in the Republic of Croatia, and one closed real estate investment fund and an increase in open funds over the year resulted in an increase in the total assets of open investment funds by 95% compared to the same period for 2004. The growth of net assets of open investment funds is expected in the coming years. However, the number of investment fund management companies has also increased, which leads to the conclusion that, in parallel with the interest of investing in a particular type of fund, the industry itself has increased its interest in starting a company and finding new types of investment. What also, therefore, ends with 31.12.2005, is registered to 56 open investment funds, 6 closed investment funds, one Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their family and one Pension Fund. The total assets managed at the moment are managed by all investment funds amounting to 12 billion 481 million 661 million 886 kuna and 22 investment fund management companies are also registered. What I consider important data, which is that during 2005, the Commission resolved a total of 43 applications for the authorisation of the publication of bids for the acquisition of stock companies of which 42 applications were granted, representing a 33 per cent increase compared to the same period of the previous year while one request was rejected. Of the 42 authorised takeover bids during 2005, none concerned the takeover of the insurance company while 6 of them were related to the takeover of banks. During 2005, almost one third of all acquisitions were related to the shares of the tourist portfolio in 2004. This continued the trend of consolidation in the tourism sector. The Securities Commission in 2005 received 957 items of which 303 administrative cases and 654 non-administrative cases and held a total of 52 sessions. Out of the total number of cases, 847 cases were solved, and 60 irregular and 50 administrative cases were unsettled. Irregularities were in business and the Supervisory Committee made over 100 infringements, and during 2005, on the basis of the Commission's applications, the courts in the Republic of Croatia made 67 measures, i.e. formal judgments and resolutions. According to the Agency for Pension Fund Control and Insurance, the pension market in the Republic of Croatia continued to grow in 2005 and thus the total net assets of compulsory pension funds increased by 48.03% and ended up at 11.7 billion kuna. The number of pension fund members increased by 7.33% and a total of 248,000 935 insurance workers were included at the end of the year. Index yield... It was 6.78 in 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The business started two more open voluntary pension funds, bringing the total number of funds to 6. The total net assets amounted to 206 million kuna, i.e. a growth of 115.5% compared to the previous year. Pension fund membership also increased so in 2005 there were 51 thousand 158 insurance companies, which is 70.29% higher than in 2004. In connection with closed voluntary pension funds whose sponsors may be an employer, a union or an association of members of independent activities has doubled to a total of 8 funds at the end of the year. At the end of 2005, closed voluntary pension funds had a total of 5,000 336 members and net assets of 21.5 million kuna, and the contributions they made were up to 15.22%. All of these data show that the Agency for the Control of Pension Funds and Insurance carried out supervision of pension societies and funds, pension insurance companies and the central insurance register during 2005. Also in 2005, there were no major violations of legal provisions other than minor irregularities observed for which pension societies were prescribed deadlines for correction, which they respected. According to the Directorate for the Control of the Croatian Insurance Market in 2005, the continuation of the high growth rates of 7.8% in the non-life insurance segment, 20.8% in the life insurance segment, while the total insurance premium compared to the previous year is 10.9%. As a whole, the insurance activity achieved a net profit of €238.7 million in 2005. The loss of HRK 66.7 million was recorded by five insurance companies and a net profit of HRK 304.5 million in 20 companies. The company's ownership structure was significantly changed in 2005 for the benefit of the majority foreign capital companies, which in 2005 was 14 and 11 with the majority domestic capital. The Insurance Supervisory Directorate has carried out supervision of 6 insurance companies, one insurance brokerage company and 15 insurance representation companies. Part-time supervision was carried out in the part of the application of the basic premium system for compulsory liability insurance and the application of common conditions to 12 of the 13 companies carrying out this type of insurance. It also carried out partial monitoring of the accounting method of valuation, investment in debt securities among 13 companies carrying out life insurance activities. In the implementation of the supervision of the Directorates, 10 requests for the initiation of the infringement procedure were issued for the compensation of the guaranteed capital, a number of orders for the removal of irregularities related to the investment of funds and the value of the matching of claims. In the absence of respect for the tasks, the issuing of one consent has been refused and one consent has been withdrawn to perform the functions of a member of the administration. Finally, the three reports show an intense and rapid development of the financial market, and I believe that the advantages of the united supervision through the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency will allow for the promotion and preservation of the stability of the system and the supervision of the legality of the business of control entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74271	Thank you. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74272	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Representatives of the government. Well, just about the examples that have been made so far and particularly related to the example of "Plive" that the director himself has presented, I would like a few answers from the director. First. Doesn't it seem to you, to me, that the case of sales of Plive shows either the lack of our regulations on the one hand or that it shows a lack of functioning of the rule of law? Why do I say that? You pointed out yourself, and yesterday it was announced that you have filed a misapplication against Mr. Zeljko Covic, director of Pliva for the privileged purchase somewhere over 11 thousand shares and will be punishable in violation if, and I do not doubt that you have not correctly determined whether he has acquired those shares illegally, he will be punished from 100 to 200 thousand kuna to the extent of the impediment penalty. And he made seven and a half million kuna. Well, everyone in Croatia would like to be so punished. For seven and a half million kunas illegally buying these privileged shares, and then they will be punished from 100 to 200 thousand kuna. Doesn't it seem like a crime to you? ... Is this about the crime scene? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In the case of the whole "Plive" case, does it not seem to you that certain circles had privileged information as did these cases as Damir Caine, as did counterpart Luka. So it's in America and in our law it's a felony. Have privileged information that they're going to go for the Plive sale and then give that information to a particular circle of people who then did what happened at Pliva. There's also another important thing in which I know part of it, there were indications that you went into inspection in that part, that you're totally independent and I'm mostly interested in the situation that many funds, I think, were above all PBZ, were also buying Plivina shares at the time, but they sold them before this maximum price was reached which was "Barr's" offer, and in this way they took their investors, they took away their profits. The situation they told me in the banking circles, and I don't know if it's a lack of regulations, you'd like to answer me, there's a situation where individual funds deliberately, means leadership in the funds, to help their cousin, and for example, their own fund starts buying shares from a private company that has this cousin, and in that way, you automatically, several times, you've prevented yourself from getting the price of shares up and then the one whose shares are automatically selling everything. So these are all forms where it is everywhere in the legislation outside, these are criminal acts and here on this case "Plive" and in this case, it is obvious in Mr. Covic's case, that the law is missing, if this privileged purchase cannot be annulled. I think it would be good for us here and for the Croatian public to get answers. Whether in these cases there is evidence, that we lack laws or that the rule of law does not work, because the situation will become more and more such or similar cases, especially with this part, are you probably and you know about this information how and in what way the funds are trying to do business to raise stock prices even their own. I've even had examples of what I'm about to tell you, I'm not going to publicly tell you that the fund management members had their own companies, so they started shopping on the stock market on behalf of the fund. So there's a lot of open questions and please answer specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74273	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74274	Yeah. I'm looking for this chronology of getting those shares but I haven't been able to find it in that short time, but I was talking about it before, like, 20 days after this pay phone. This isn't about Mr. Kovacevic getting 7 million kuna, it's about cca. 27 million kuna. So based on these purchases of these privileged 2001 rights shares, 2003 etc. The truth is that part of those shares, worth several hundred thousand kunas, was donated to Mr. Covic for charity and the rest was donated to his own family. So, you pay 100,000 kunas of criminal punishment, 200 grand maximum, and you take away 27 million kuna. Not bad to start with. On the trail of that first million kuna Mr. Ante Samodol would not ask the Croatian tycoons how they got to or from them. I think, once again, I'm going to look back at that famous statement that no one in this country is going to ask anyone else for the first million dollars they've earned but for everyone else they will because it's past the time of non-transparent trade. Here's an example of this non-transparent trade, but we can see that with a misdemeanor procedure in the end, someone from an institution that was dominated by Croatia by more than 25 or 27 million kuna yesterday. What particularly hurts that these people should have taken care of this national property, not the taverns, is what it's usually like in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74275	Replication response. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74276	Well, dear colleague, I am very grateful for the part that the public knows exactly what the amount of the year manager Željko Covic has ruined Pliva, and helped himself, how much he has earned because he is so successful, and now we see what kind of situation we are in and what the situation will be like today, tomorrow, whether Barr will behave in the way that he should behave or there will be problems at all of the medicines, procurement, production, everything else. And we have Zeljko Covic, who will be punished with 100 thousand kuna, and this is nothing to anyone, so it's the rule of law or what we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74277	Another replica, Honored Representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74278	And it's about the same problem. If the chairman of Pliva's management Mr. Covic illegally obtained profits from the privileged purchase of shares and by the difference in prices he has achieved, the sums of 7 to 27 million kuna are mentioned here, and since Mr. Samodol has initiated a procedure that should determine what it is, if it is found to be illegal actions, then I think that the penalty, the penalty of 200 thousand kuna, could be replaced by up to 200 thousand kuna, can be replaced by something else because there is also an institution of confiscation of illegally acquired property. This will depend on what will determine the procedure that you have initiated, Mr. Samodol, and I do not think that it must be kept only at the level of the criminal penalty of up to two hundred thousand kunas, so that this property can also be seized if the procedure finds that it has been acquired illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74279	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74280	Well, look, Mr. Jurovic, I've been speaking with this point of view, a misdemeanor unless the law provides for the confiscation and unlawful property benefit, then they can't ask for it unless the law provides. So to confiscate illegally acquired property benefits when it comes to a violation, there must also be this provision legally to confiscate illegally acquired property benefits. But for this I have said that it seems to me that this is not one thing, but that it is a crime, a crime of abuse of office and authority, and a crime of failure of trust. And then, in such a procedure, it is automatically going to take away illegally acquired property benefits, but I would like to ask for a broader explanation of the applicant himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74281	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74282	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. This Report is a good reason to remember a little bit and try to look back in the context of this Report on how it is today and how it is yesterday and what the financial sector in Croatia will be like tomorrow. Of course, seven, eight years ago, there was a consolidation of the real financial sector, primarily the banking sector, financial intermediaries that are despite the completely negative structure and consolidation, which is the fact that almost 90% are owned by foreign banks, but despite this completely negative finding and the facts, the fact is that the sector has been consolidated, that it has progressed so quickly in relation to the real sector that today it is almost impossible to compare these two main sectors in one economy. Of course, the banking sector, the financial intermediaries sector, has had its own troubles in the surveillance system, and there are still today. Control and supervision of that part of the banking sector was often the topic of debate in this Parliament. Of course, compared to the growth of the sector and the non-bank sector has been making a strong progress and is taking a growing place in the overall structure of the Croatian economy, so here the director also mentioned some figures, how much participation in the gross social product is in terms of growth trend. Of course, such a trend of growth in Croatia is or rather the majority of Croatian citizens were welcomed unprepared. So unpreparedness, ignorance and ignorance are one of the key reasons why Croatian citizens do not have and cannot have the feeling that they can participate in a large share of profits that is often almost succesively happening in these areas. And they really feel like someone else is taking a piece of that cake, part of that cake that they kind of earned by their work. Whether it was Pliva, any shares of any Croatian company. It's just that citizens feel right not to participate in what they might be involved in. What am I going to say? Our citizens have one huge savings in Croatian banks, under quotes from Croatians, are not Croatian but are owned by foreigners and their enormous capital power because this society did not find it appropriate to guide them as some other countries did, so that they can make far greater contributions in the financial non-banking sector, that they can participate in these offerings and be, that they can be capital bearers, they do not do so. No one gives them information about it. No one educates them, as much as that information is discreetly kept. And what's the problem with all the measures, what's the problem with all the actions and the public, the public, when, when the public gathering starts, when the public announcement starts, when anything starts? Then it must be perfectly clear and the same for everyone. If that, if there's been a break-in of information a month ago, it's one of the most terrible punishments in the world. One of the most serious violations of the law is when you get discretionary information and buy with it a share worth 500 at that time, and tomorrow you sell it at 800. But even worse for me is the sanctions for our citizens general ignorance of the possibility of making more money on the non-bank market, on a market that is very developing and where those very narrow numbers and circles of people who have information, knowledge and opportunity can make an enormous amount of money. However, that profit is always poured on someone else. So the huge incomes that individuals have generated are caused by a lack in the real sector that is therefore struggling to see whether the monthly salary will be an average of 2,000 or 2,000 and 400 because someone simply in a closed system of each economy has to pay for someone's progress. No one can make progress if someone isn't cut off, it's very simple. There is no other set rule other than that. Someone's got to be weak to make someone feel good. It's in the economy, it's in the global world, it's in the economy, it's in everything. To return to this report that has been pooled, and therefore it is a little bit and strange because the agency was created on 1 January this year and it carries reports for the three state bodies of the Agency, the Securities Commission, the Pension Fund Supervisory Agency and the Insurance Society's Supervisory Directorate. Of course, if it's a good thing we've united all three state institutions, that time will show. It may be good that we can locate criticism when it should exist but also praise when it is necessary to say that something has been done successfully and individual cases I do not want to bring up or want to discuss through them a very important topic and this report which is acceptable as a report because it is made up of the methodology and the way in which the report is done, and this current Financial Services Supervisory Agency is too young to bring down any criticism or some responsibility that surely stems from the overall relationship that we have on this part of the non-bank financial market, but surely this fundamental question must be asked why and why Croatian citizens, again, have so much and so much of their savings in banks where the contributions are actually much smaller if we follow only the "business club" of Croatian television than anywhere on the non-bank market, looking at the value of shares, the possibilities of any investment in that part of the financial market. Which is why we simply have the potential in this society and not only the potential of our citizens but also the potential that arises through the fiscal potentials and capacities of this society at all levels. We can't do any different, solid or perhaps a little more Croatian use in terms of strengthening those financial potentials that are still left and very few banks in that area that are left and are not controlled by foreign legal and physical persons that through them are just multiple fiscal potentials of this country, and of course we need to look at it by opening up this non-banking sector that absolutely has huge potentials because in every country that is in a transitional period where they are just trying to create good positions in the banking and non-banking market, there is traffic and there are the value of yields far greater than in total regulated markets. So in ten years, of course, there will be no cases of drastic increase in the value of shares such as in Pliva but also in some others because there will be a full consolidation of these relations and then there will be no significant contributions. It is therefore the task of this society to simply through financial institutions, through banks but also through the public character of every government and every institution at any level to create a sense in society that everyone can be there and that there will be no discretion that will stop someone, that it is simply not part of the space that should be in the fog, but that it must be completely clear, public and where there is a good opportunity for Croatian citizens, Croatian companies or fiscal potentials of this society to simply earn them without earning speculators, foreign intermediaries or banks that, in most cases, find themselves in one way or another as beneficiaries of the contribution that comes through various transactions. Therefore, I wanted to warn myself about the consequences of not entering this very report that is correct, good, can be accepted, but I think this is a good opportunity for exactly the kind of debate that my colleague Pero opened up to simply not lead and that we would not hurt individuals but that we would not hurt this sector and this sector is very important for every society, this sector is very important in all societies that belong to the society that Croatia belongs to, and it is very important for stability. It can be the very injection that will help the real sector in a situation where we have foreign banks that are the owners of that necessary injection to the real sector, perhaps more easily than the banks themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74283	Thank you very much. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74284	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague! So one of the ways to get an exact right answer is whether the system works is also a simulation by the method of sample of the case and I have presented two, three samples of cases where we haven't received yet the answer whether it's a failure in the legal system of Croatia or whether it's a failure of the rule of law. So, in such a way and in such a debate, if we are only discussing the report without being sure that the system is effective or that it is flawed either in law or in any other form, then we have done nothing. As a result, you know that in science and in practice in the making of regulations, this method of simulation is done by example of the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74285	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74286	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Kovacevic, but at the same time have accurate and accurate information and have knowledge that with this information instead of having 5,000 kuna in the account of any bank, we can earn another 5,000 kuna by investing in securities and if that information is all there and if the financial intermediaries of the bank want to get that information to their clients and that their clients are able to earn it then we have come to a position that the government should not fight whether something is public and transparent or not, then that information will be present everywhere. But in the frames where we have no information and we have no knowledge and we wait for those narrow channels to get information then we have problems we can't solve and unfortunately this problem cannot be solved by writing an article that will specify sanctions. Because the sanctions in that case are exactly what we are and in the examples presented, they are not sanctions for sanctions. They're sanctions for the principle of saying, well, we sanctioned it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74287	10.36 hours have elapsed to report a ten-minute hearing. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74288	Your Honor, Mr. President, I've spoken to you before at the club but in front of the club, but now I'm going back to these pension funds. We know we have four such funds in Croatia. These are the AZ managed by Alliantz, Erste Blue Fund, Privredna banka Zagreb or PBZ Croatia no? Which puts Intes behind it if I'm not mistaken, the Italian financial group. And like the 4th Fund, it's this... faisen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2004 alone, two billion 741 million kunas were incomed in that year alone. The net assets on 31.12 were almost 8 billion kuna. By the end of 2005. 11.7 billion kuna. This year it will certainly increase by another 4 to 5 billion kuna so that we can speak freely about 15 to 16 billion kunas. What is the essence of this whole story is the structure of the total asset, the investment of the pardon, and the assets of these funds, where out of 11.7 billion kunas are mostly invested or better deposited in securities, in government bonds, and the risk is in such a way understandable, which is somehow well avoided. Shares of our companies are invested in no more than 5% of the total net assets. The game is meant to be safe. That's kind of what I said a little before well, but I'm saying it at this point when in some ways the total sale of the Republic of Croatia begins. Once we've sold Pliva to, before that, banks and so on, there's still a few national companies like INA left. Don't let God privatize the day after tomorrow Croatia's electricity industry and perhaps here without much risk these funds could find some interest. But what do I want to say, too? Whose property are these pension funds? Who manages those pension funds? They're in charge, or the owners are the same as I told the foreigners before. So behind that stands Alliantz, standing Erste, standing PBZ means I said Intesa, the Business Bank of Zagreb that was sold in 1999 if I'm not mistaken for two and a half billion kunas, there somewhere, and it's been rescheduled with nearly 7 billion kuna. Of course, there's Raiffaissen and so on. We see that mostly these funds take over Italian or Austrian capital. I said this is $11.7 billion. So that's the 2005 money. I'm guessing it's 15, 16 billion kuna from 2006. Who owns the bank? Clearly, 95% of these banks are in the hands of foreigners without counting the Post Office and perhaps even some less. The activity of these banks at this hour must seem to me over 300 billion kuna. So foreigners manage, if we keep in mind that it's about 300 billion kunas with about 270 billion kunas. It seems to me that last year these banks were somewhere around 120 billion kuna. I guess this year there'll be at least 150, maybe 160, 170 billion kuna. Whose property are private investment, private investment funds? Clearly, also in the hands of strangers. What am I saying? The same goes for HT. 49% are in the hands of strangers. To INA. That's where we sold that 25% plus one share package. Now the sale of the next package of 15 and 17%, respectively, is under way, which will say that by the end of this year, Croatia will be eligible foreign investors 40 or 42% of INA ownership with almost absolute management rights. I want to say that the state should protect national property and let the small citizens do what they want with their own. What's a good offering is coming true. He's on average about 5.82%. We can see that these pension funds are about there somewhere above those that are made in banks. And what's most important is that your contributions to these funds are safe regardless of what's actually about the money factories. Just before we mentioned the PLIVA case, we see mainly for those who run these systems. What's also interesting are voluntary pension funds. Unfortunately, things aren't as good as these other funds, because there's only about 30 or 40 thousand members. So those who want to avoid the fate of the so-called. New pensioners who at this time are the average pensions of 1244 kuna. I repeat, 1244 kuna, the old ones are about 700 kuna higher, 1928 kuna. Clearly, not counting on all these certain amounts that half-years through the form of compensation return so-called. The old pensioners. There are 423 thousand and 34 of them, and on average 27 thousand kunas are returned to them. For the end of what I'm saying? And this is exactly the financial report of the Securities Commission that best paints that picture. Foreign capital rules Croatia. Thus, both banks and pension funds and voluntary funds are clear. And private-investment funds and large national, economic systems. So not only to the banks, but through the banks when we did it at the time, de facto, we transferred our financial sovereignty to those shareholders behind these banks, who have their own residences, places of residence understandablely in one Austria, Germany, Italy and so on. What's certainly good about all this is that after 2000, we banks don't fail at what's supposed to be "dynamics" in the same way that happened until 2000, with the exception of a clear Rijeka Bank, perhaps even smaller ones. But unfortunately from this one national sovereignty as I said before we will remain only a flag, only a coat of arms, only an anthem and a clear national team, with those who play in them mostly also playing in foreign clubs. What's here is. We've formed such a system, gentlemen. There's nowhere to go. We can't get away with it. But once again I will say, all that is successful, all that has been of national interest unfortunately in such a way we have broken up or I don't know what generation or how many generations should we live in this country to get back to those positions, I would say before the '90s. when at least we knew what it was. All the evil de facto began at the moment when we decided to sell the rescheduled banks, I don't mean those that went bankrupt, but those for which the state had singled out billions and billions of kuna, and in the end, the Buddha would actually be able to sell them just to say that individuals who had previously been ministers would have kept leading positions in those financial institutions. It's a national disgrace. Mrs. Letica might call her a national betrayal, but that's how it's possible to speak. The directors who ran the bank's privatisations kept the leading positions in those banks, and the national sovereignty went, you know, not national sovereignty but financial national sovereignty went or spilled across borders. We're where we are, out of this skin you can't. And now we must clearly live and try to fight for the naked survival of the next day of these young people who are still up in the pay phone today, in the stands or whatever.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74289	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74290	I give up, there's no point in correcting Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74291	Replica, a respected representative of Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74292	And I'm obviously more optimistic than my colleague Matusic. I think Mr. Cain can be fixed someday. Namely, Mr. Cain and on behalf of the club, and now individually speaking all the time the state doesn't allow anything to a small man. Let the little man leave alone. What's that little man doing today? A small man today, what he says about the sale, the sale of apartments in the center of Dubrovnik, the center of Split, sells everything he has in private, in the protected core because offers are such that he probably can't resist it or may be more difficult to maintain or similar. Let's see, colleague Caine can take a look at what little man is doing in Istria. Buy the whole village without a problem. Whether it's a little or a big man it's hard to say. The mayor of a city in Istria bought a castle without competitions the same. So, as this country bothers, only if they get involved and prove it's illegal. And I think you should get involved here anyway. He also says I don't know a little man can't sell 500 squares. So go to a colleague of Cain's in the vicinity of Zagreb, there's nothing that's not being sold. Whoever's got something to sell and I'm going to say, unfortunately, not out of need, not out of need, but prices have really reached such size as to simply sell people because they think prices are going to fall tomorrow. So I often remind them that they have both children and grandchildren and don't really sell everything they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74293	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74294	I don't know who he is who bought the castle in Istria but I know he's thinking of Mr. Jakovic who bought 300, cca 300 square meters. You know, Mr. Markovanovic, how much is that? 300 square meters in that village. It is 3 times less than the villa of your party's president in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74295	Dear Representative Krunoslav, Pero Kovacevic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74296	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, you're right, Mr. Cain, about the issue of privatization and the sale of banks, but unfortunately it's been kept secret, and there's a lot of evidence that it was also robbery and fraud. And mainly because of the fact that the State Audit Day cannot go into progress today and the privatisation process of banks. Because if it came in then it would be seen that the state for 2 billion euros was damaged in connection with the sale of the Zagreb Bank and that sequence would just continue. And 2 billion, what does it mean to question pensions, euros, and other situations? Therefore, if we don't solve this, we won't be able to promise a better future to Croatian citizens, and then this situation will be even more difficult and insolent about this form of globalisation and capital management that has only the objective of profit, profit and profit again. So, on the one hand, trick citizens, on the other hand, cheat the state itself, the state budget. That's what all the problems are about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74297	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74298	That's where I agree with you, Mr. Kovacevic. State audit can get into anything but these privatised banks can't get in. And what's almost incredible is that it doesn't bother these tutors of ours from the European Union. Everything else certainly is, but this interesting data when their capital is compared to simply is untouchable. And why is he untouchable? Banks are sold for a billion dollars, if for a billion dollars at that time, it's about 7 billion kuna, I'm talking about those that have been remedied with three times the amount. At that time, the financial capacity of the same must have been below 100 billion kuna, and today it exceeded 300 billion kuna. And that's why I'm saying that we have de facto passed our financial sovereignty on to people who do not have domicills in these areas and which is almost in the order of national betrayals.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74299	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74300	Namely, I can agree with Mr Caine when he used the term "breathing" Croatia as a synonym for privatisation. There I can tolerate this expression, but I cannot agree with you fellow Cain that he is always and guilty of all foreign and foreign capital that has entered Croatia. It is we who dictate under which conditions capital will enter. We're the ones who dictate who's allowed to work in these companies. We're the ones who dictate taxes, even profit taxes, whether it's more or less from this country. France, a large country with a strong economy of 80 to 90% that economy is in the hands of Arab capital. It doesn't bother anyone because that capital was properly used to further develop other segments of French society and we have to start doing so. Not phobia at everything that's foreign but phobia on the conditions of business that we unfortunately created as they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74301	Replication response, Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74302	I never said it was foreign capital for everything and I'm not afraid to be... capital, because I'm aware or the capital will come into this country or our people will follow that capital from this country. But also let's not sell exactly all national systems of vital state interest. We've sold the banks, now we're doing it with "INA," and tomorrow we're going with Croatian electricity. It just doesn't seem. And finally when you mention Mr. Doric and France, just these days French Parliament or government all one thing, it doesn't matter, it passed a law that prevents vital national branches from entering simple capital, not capital on the side, but perhaps of interest on the side, because in that way, in some way, the state is taking over as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74303	Final review, management president, Ante Samodol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74304	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the statement made here by the esteemed representative Cain, I have to correct it, his statement is completely incorrect. I said, quote myself, "Lords, if no one has asked you for the first million, everyone else has to be according to the law." By stressing that I am addressing brokers, a brokerage event in Rovinj, and the agency is not in charge of verifying that first million, but is in charge and will always be, is also in the future I repeat, that this million is not multiplicated by speculation on the market. That's what our business is every day, every stock day, and in that sense, conditionally speaking, they don't become new tycoons. That's exactly what I was talking about. So that million, I wasn't talking about any millions, it was about brokers, it was about stock speculation. As for Pliva and Pliva takeovers, Mr. Kovacevic, it's all the law. So the law on the takeover of stock companies, we couldn't do anything else absolutely. You will get on the benches these days of the amendment and addition of the Securities Trading Act and the Download Act for about a month, so you can put everything in what we learned in this download process. So everything we've done comes from the law. Unfortunately, the law is what it is. But what the agency did in this procedure, I think that we can not only be proud of the agency but also of the government and this House because we didn't embarrass anyone, we were firm and we applied the law alone. I thank everyone who participated in this debate, but I repeat, Mr. Cain, so I didn't address the tycoons, but we actually prevent our business every day from becoming a tycoon of speculation on the stock market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74305	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74306	Mr. Samodol, at that annual conference of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, you literally said, "No one will ever ask anyone for the first million dollars." I suppose you meant dollars or euros, but for everyone else you will because it's past the time of non-transparent trade. This is the moral bankruptcy of Croatian society. The first million you could have...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74307	Thank you very much. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. You're correcting some alleged statement... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74308	But if someone picked up Mr. President's box of cookies in this country, they'd get six months probation. That's the problem, and that's why I'm saying it's moral...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74309	And how is that a correction to an incorrect assumption? I'm closing the debate on this. Report on the work of the Commission on securities of the Republic of Croatia, the Agency for the Control of Pension Funds and Insurance and the Directorate for the Control of the Insurance Society for 2005. I give the vote the following conclusion: That report shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 68 votes for, 19 abstentions and 5 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives, and perhaps in the context of this previous point as the financial market has developed over the past years, as well as the jobs that FINA has traditionally done have been doing, business banks have started to make payments in a different way and in the context of FINA's 2005 report and in the context of revenue reductions compared to the previous year, it can only be seen about new products offered by commercial banks, first of all, as regards the trend of reducing orders in 2004, this trend of reduction in payment orders was 16%, in 2005. 14%, but this is still a significant drop in income from that business segment in 2005, and as I said one of the main reasons is to increase market share and electronic payment and increase bank focus on non-performing revenues. The legal and market position of the FINA in these transactions depends largely on banks and, in such circumstances, we believe that success and, in a significant amount, to compensate for the reduction of these revenues. But I would also very much like to recall our discussions there four or five years ago when the Law on Payments was changed, when it was just assumed that this would happen with FINA what is happening today, because... a thing in a general competition on the financial market that each bank is interested in using some new product using modern technology to attract as many citizens as possible and also in direct business companies. When exception was made to this segment of FINA in other segments of business achieved shifts, a number of reforms were carried out within the Financial Agency itself and we can say that it was not done today, FINA would have been in trouble today if it had not offered certain new products, new services that had been replaced and replaced by reduced revenues from reduced payment traffic then it would have been possible for FINA today to be in financial problems, but as you can see FINA had a gross profit of 67 million kuna last year. And what I would particularly like to point out is that last year, FINA introduced a series of changes and improvements in its business, and the "Hurry HR" project, which opened 8 offices all over Croatia through which more than a thousand and 300 companies and crafts were opened and should be noted that the "Hurry HR" project has significantly facilitated the possibility of all those who want to deal with entrepreneurship instead of visiting 25 or 30 doors where they should collect a variety of certificates of certain documents on which they could open a company. Today there is a possibility of days for HINA’s counters, i.e. on the "Hurry HR" counters they practically do it in a few days only applying for the opening of the company. Additional services were also introduced primarily in electronic business, first of all the promotion of FINA's E-card, which has become a universal platform for electronic business in Croatia and has served among other things for the development of electronic services Quick.hr services, FINA has also participated in the digitalisation of land books as one of the most comprehensive, largest projects that the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to implement and implement as part of the project of reforming the judiciary and creating a better environment for, better climates for entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, improvement in all segments of business, from business with citizenship and collection of different services offered by the Financial Agency to its clients. The first prize game in the history of the Financial Agency was launched, and new products were designed for different clients. Sales of commercial services such as cash transport, archiving or registering data have increased. In that segment, a 51 million kuna revenue increase was also achieved compared to the year before and precisely in the development of the mentioned products and services of FINA sees the basis for successful business in the future as last year has been used to prepare, develop a long-term business strategy of the Financial Agency. And what I would like to say in the end is not so much about the 2005 Report, but since the project was launched in 2005 and continues in 2006, one of the very important segments in the future FINA business is certainly the establishment of a cash centre. I hope that the negotiations with the business banks will be successfully completed because at this point in Croatia's premises there is only room for one cash centre, I sincerely hope that it will be a job to work with the FINA, that it will reach an agreement with the business banks because at the end of the day, and in this part of everything negative, it should create a climate and the situation that supplies and ATMs and all those instruments dealing with cash payments, you know that cash payments today are extremely expensive and most expensive and practical payments and many who have not participated in this process have not been managed in the past years, have done calculations on how expensive and normal the cash payment process is that cash centres should, first of all, cost the process of those who are making cash payments, so in such a way that they would be satisfied and commercial banks, and FINA offers it a new product that would be reduced in terms of income and income, which would be reduced from reduced from the normal income, which would be paid by the bank. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74313	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. We're opening a debate. The HDZ Club, the respected representative of Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74314	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the 2005 FINA Business Report. In 2005, FINA confirmed that the leading financial intervention company, that it is an inevitable factor in economic life, and that it is a leading partner to the state to realise projects of national importance. We must certainly take into account its status, organisation, spatial or territorial distribution, as well as historical heritage when considering and analysing the Business Reports of the Financial Agency. When we talk about its status, then we primarily think that FINA is owned by the state, but that it operates on market principles and in the very sharp competition of many financial institutions. However, while most of these institutions are particularly banks' primary motive and objective of operating profit, profit and profit, FIN takes good care of its clients, the interests of the state's owners, as well as of its workers. FINA employs over 5 thousand workers, of which 64% of medium professional staff, strives to educate, educate and retrain them through various aspects of internal and external education, to be able to perform increasingly demanding and sophisticated work. When we talk about spatial distribution, then we think of 177 locations that cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, then we highlight a very well-organised business network and praise the availability of services in almost every corner of our country. In doing so, we must also be aware of the fact that these 177 business facilities with more than 125 thousand square meters of business space require considerable costs of regular investment and ongoing maintenance, especially because most business buildings are about 30 and perhaps more years old. In these conditions, FINA achieved very good business results in the past year. Income worth more than billions of kuna, gross profits of 67 million kuna and kept the leading place on the Croatian financial market. These results in absolute amounts are lower than in 2004, but it is important to stop the trend in the decline of transport in the payment sector, from 16% in 2004, to 14% in 2005. This is a significant decline still in revenue from this segment of business and for 2005 amounts to 64 million kuna. The main reason is the increase in the market share of electronic payments and the increasing focus of banks on non-income. The legal and market position of the FINA in these transactions is largely dependent on banks and in such circumstances we believe that success in a significant amount is to compensate for the reduction of these revenues. During 2005, a number of projects, organisational and staff reforms and improvements in business processes were carried out. New products are designed for different clients. For the first time, a marketing campaign called "FINA's afternoon savings" has been introduced in the area of payment traffic, which has met with great citizens' interest and has stopped the trend in the fall in payment traffic. FINA's Centre for Business with the Population recorded record results in 2005. The rise in income from as much as 31% compared to 2004, the number of transactions in the population segment increased to 19, almost 20 million, which is 108% more than the number of transactions processed last year. It is also very important with financial impact, that FINA presented herself on television in a new, modern way, as an institution that is facing the client and where the client is at the centre of attention. Project Fast.hr has been launched as a government service for fast communication between entrepreneurs and citizens with the authorities and authorities of the administration. During the year, quick offices were opened, alongside Zagreb and Split, Osijek, Dubrovnik, Vukovar, Gospić and Bjelovar. We must certainly note that over 3,000 citizens passed through the Fast Offices in 2005 and that more than 300 companies and crafts were opened through the office. The indicator for this year 2006 shows that this project was a full hit and that the financial effects of the project will only come. FINA has participated in the implementation of land-book and catastra digitalisation projects, which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. This project aims to enable citizens to have insight into land books through the Internet and obtain property data, making it easier for the court system to work more efficiently and the real estate market to be more efficient. As a brand newer single product that was introduced last year, FINA's e-card allows business entities to make very simple, fast and secure business transactions with the Internet and have access to FINA registers and services to REGOS and other state institutions and administrations. FINA's e-cards are numerous and this product will encounter a very wide change in application in business of entrepreneurs because it is simple, safe and cheap, and can be done from home or from office and at any time day and night. So the service is available 24 hours. In addition, a project management service in FINA has been established to enable the monitoring and management of projects from the start of a business project until the completion of its implementation. Further development of the shopping shop project, creating in one place FINA conditions that can be obtained from banking to all other financial services through the purchase of investment funds and housing savings, insurance of life or car to the payment of directorial costs. A concluded service agreement "HVB Splitska banka", d.d. it offers its services at 32 locations in the FINA offices where it provides banking and other financial services. In the fina-nii offices on three FINA counters, employees provide banking services and do other jobs for Podravska Banka. 52 FINA-not authorized businesses, business units provide housing-saving services, Raiffeisen residential savings banks, and more than 37 FINA business units are provided also for the sale of investment shares in PBZ investment funds on behalf of and for the account of PBZ investments. In six of its FINA offices there is also business cooperation with the insurance of Zagreb in the area of insurance. FINA's business network with its infrastructure supports the model of all services in one place. The business network thus directly participates in achieving the strategic interest of FINA, which is to streamline business and increase activity and increase efficiency in order to make the best use of assets and FINA resources. In the framework of the project shopping shop interest for FINA's working information and spatial resources, many other financial institutions have also shown, through concluded contracts with individual partners and realised at business level. And finally, on the basis of all this, we believe that FINA definitely confirmed in 2005 that from a former monopoly it is developing into a stable and diversified system of providing services of a different type and in different market segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74315	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74316	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] I will, unfortunately, speak a little differently than my colleague Majdenic. I'm just reminding you that the FINA law... the institution of the moment when a new payment law has been passed as legal... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] there in 2002. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The obligation under the law was to implement the restructuring and transformation of institutions in such a way that resources available to the market and on market principles are organised sustainablely in the capacity of the system. FINA is more than one service, no service, no service for any user is based on the law given jurisdiction and in any monopoly position. FINA according to this Report today has exactly the same structure as in 2002, but more employees than then, but dramatically lower income and profit than in 2003 and 2004. ... I say because it was the first year of FINA's operation as a completely market-based company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2003, in which income was 1 billion 127 million and gross earnings of 138 million kuna, in 2004, the revenue amounted to slightly less than 1 billion and 47 million while gross profits were around 103 million kuna, and in 2005, the total income was 1 billion and a gross profit of HRK 66 million. We see in two years almost for dramatically smaller revenues. From this point on, we still don't seem to be able to recognize that the administration is even estimating this situation as alarming, although it is obvious that the system is moving unconstitutional towards serious business problems. It is evident that the market with which it is successful to establish partner relations to turn to its own solutions and are increasingly using the FINA service as clearly reflected in the financial results. In all the positions that most of the revenue has been made, a decline has been recorded, and even from the state, although it can be seen that in a brutal display of the income structure, certain items are trying to balance this real situation. At the same time, projects that are set are listed, all those percentages that may impress a surface reader, but there is a clear intention of clouding the real situation in which this large system is facing. I'm particularly surprised... on a successful TV campaign, which unfortunately does not indicate how much it cost and how commercially justified it was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We remember such already TV campaigns when it comes to some former, some former ministries, some former governments, especially when we see how much revenue it was possible to make with the assumed increase in the transaction on the counters and how much the total cost. From this act it is obvious that FINA also has problems in defining the clients to which it is addressed. Such actions suggest that according to their partners who have become payment service providers, FINA has started to act as a sharp competitor even though it is no longer in that position. It is clear that in this way FINA has no chance of survival. Another very significant indicator that points to... The problem was the information of the armistice, in 2003 it was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One million, 2004. 144 million, and 2005. 114 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These data clearly point to a marked drop in investment mainly in equipment, which raises a very sure question of the technological superiority that FINA has been preceding for years and thus essentially secures its position on the market. When it comes to acquisitions, according to the FINA report, it uses mechanisms that avoid a public competition institution, although apparently the entire sector is engaged in procurement. It is particularly interesting in the item of the customer claim balance in 2003, which was 280 million, 2004. ... One million, and one in 2005. 378 million kuna claims from customers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's more than a third of the total income of FINA. What we're interested in at the HSLS Club would be to see which customers are subject to such a huge amount of outstanding claims. It is reportedly the debt of the state, i.e. the ministry, of some of the ministries with which the income and on whose account the debt is compensated. Although it cannot be seen from the report whether the FINA continues with the law of the established transformation obligation at all, we assume from the presentation that general declarations and programmes are essentially not happening at all. As we remember in 2001, the FINA Act was adopted unanimously and now the question is whether in practice some other strategy of transformation of the institution or the one we adopted in 2001, we were all in this Parliament. It was particularly interesting to hear with regard to information from the media what is actually happening with the cash processing projects, which is with the national... the CNB system and decisions and, as the case may be, the 2003 contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government signed with FINA to support state administration information projects. And finally, in the end, how it's supposed to solve the issue of this system in the first place, which is obviously facing certain problems. So we at the club only take this report to the knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74317	Thank you. For the club IDS, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74318	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Honored gentlemen of the MPs. I think as Mr Kramarić said the key to this Annual Report on the business of the financial agency for 2005 was just expressed on these pages of 34th and 35th respectively. What's interesting is income and expenditure, gross and net profit in 2005. The total income in 2004 was 1 billion 049 million kuna. The plan was a billion and 020 million kuna, however one billion kuna and one million kuna were reached, or 5% less said in 2004. Gross profit in 2004 was expressed at 103 million kuna and the plan was 88.2 million kuna for 2005 but was reached at an amount of 66.6 million kuna or 36% less than what was achieved in 2004. The net profit in 2004 came to an amount of 81.5 million kuna. The plan for 2005 was 70 million 634 thousand and was reached in 2005 only 54.6 million kuna. So a downfall of even 33%. On the next page, 35th, we see the following. Structure of income generated by business sectors. So the cash business sector is so much, the banking service sector so much, the customer service sector so much. Interestingly, it is less and what is particularly interesting is the service sector for the state in 2004. That's where we realized or he was expressed in the amount of 176 million 342 thousand 552 kuna, and in 2005, for as much as 10% less than 159 million 244 thousand and 059 kuna. It's really a question, and I guess that's a crucial question why won't the state work with itself? Why doesn't he just want to encourage his institutions? Mr. Kramaric just said that if it continues to do so, FINA will not survive. The fact, however, is a little different. If this continues, the FINA will not be profitable. If this trend continues from year to year we can assume that 2006 means this year, the net profit of the FINA will certainly not be greater than 40 million kuna, and in 2008 the net profit will not be at all. The state will also have to finance its financial agencies. What I particularly want to do with these unsavory events, especially these last heinous murders, which is to quote: "...have committed a peaceful boy from the Kolinovac" I would like to say, that in these financial institutions, there is a need to increase security. It's hardly monetary institutions, it's not just about the FINA that can only be protected by guards. It could be a measure of how we do it to reduce unemployment, but we're not gonna keep robbers from being robbed. The solution is what they have or what exists in one Italy, Austria, Germany. It's a double door, a blind door. It's the only way you can stop someone from getting in there. It's the only way you can get workers to control themselves. It's the only way to prevent a robbery. If it wasn't for that, in Italy, Germany, every day there'd be hundreds of robberies in Spain. So I'm using this report to say that the IDS club is just gonna let him know, we're not voting for him. So I'm using this debate to point out the problem of financial nature, and it's clear that once again I would express solidarity with citizens or security guards that are exposed to executions in front of our financial institutions. To the place of the last sentence. I think we really need to see what's going on here. If the net profit continues to fall in this way, we will indeed face in 2008 the fact that FINA will not achieve nor swear the same and then perhaps someone will ask whether our financial agencies are in the possession of the state of need at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74319	Thank you. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74320	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. We at HSS believe we have a very interesting report on the financial agency for the past year. That report could actually be summed up at prospectus level, not reports. It's actually about a mission, a vision, a position of FINA that we don't find anywhere with numbers that we don't find anywhere in our own. Given the large number of charts that are trying to prove success in business, I could also call this report a comic book. It's a very interesting way of presenting anything. Three years in a row, we record a drop in total income. Three years in a row, we record a profit drop. We're recording employee growth, and it's more than obvious that FINA doesn't accomplish what we all expect it to be. It is important to note from the project Quick here that 13,000 commercial offices are open in the FINA. Mr. Minister, I don't know what a trading office is, I quote what the report says. It may be thought of open crafts, companies, agricultural cooperatives and the like, but if at least 13,000 trades and companies are opened in Croatia, then it is unquestionable that this is the failure of the FINA if all thousands and 300 people who have tried to open their business in Croatia have gone through its tents. It's interesting, I quote, in the FINA report "This year was good for FINA.". What would a bad year look like?- I'm sorry. Once again, I want to point out, the third year in a row is the drop in income, the drop in profits is recorded and in this year it is dramatic. What's dramatic about? Because the profit is much less. However, one economic or accounting operation has been shown to be higher. Namely, the profit was shown higher in the way the depreciation was calculated. This is often used as an accounting technique. Amortisation is calculated in 2005 30 million kunas less than a year ago. And of course, since depreciation is part of business expenditure, a greater profit has been shown. What I'd like to see in the so-called. The vision, FINA mission is a Croatian product in FINA. 177 counters are likely to be able to open the positions of the Croatian banking sector still at home, which eventually has some potential but actually has no offices. First of all, I think of the Croatian Post Office because we see the offices of all other banks just not the Post Office. In FINA, we see housing savings packages being sold, we see insurance sales. However, in this same FINA which has a vision, which has a mission but which has a monopoly we do not see Croatia's insurance. Mr. Minister and the FINA administration, is that an accident? What's this all about? And wouldn't that be exactly the strategy of FINA because it's a state-owned institution that also has banks or companies owned by a hundred percent state-owned company? These 177 businesses can now serve as a counter to sell trade credit products here, to lend small and medium-sized enterprises because it is available. Here we have people who know not only payment traffic but know financial business. If they work for other banks, they could probably work for domestic banks. What doesn't make me happy in this report is especially business in so-called business. The cash centres of FINA where total turnover of 135 billion kuna has been achieved. So it's almost 40% more than the state budget how much cash flow has been achieved in the FINA offices, or according to the report, it's 26% more than a year ago. The world, especially Europe, has long left business with money. We've seen the dangers it carries recently. The world has moved to another form of payment called a card, which is called the electronic form of payment by entrepreneurs, however, FINA has not done enough there. FINA is still too expensive for entrepreneurs, FINA is too expensive because it constantly accounts for various fees, monitoring accounts and for monitoring the state of the account and transactions are too expensive. The vision and mission of the FINA should now be such that through its business it draws closer to the entrepreneur, enables him to operate cheaper, enable him to operate more efficiently and in his counters to develop products that interest citizens. I ask the question if the project is launched quickly and if we want to be open to entrepreneurs why there is no HAMAG inside, why is there no Croatian small economy agency? They would have 177 points in Croatia where a job could be realised if an entrepreneur wanted to use credit if it wanted to develop, so this report finds a bad situation in business for the past year. If it continues this way, it is absolutely certain that we can expect further downward trends. I think that FINA with over 5,000 employees, with its potentials that it has especially in software, in which it is invested not only two years back but invested five, six years back significantly has to provide more. However, in order to provide more of it, we must ask for it and we will ask in this way that such a report which is worse in business than last year, such a report that prefers to continue to operate with cash instead of standing at the service of the citizen and the entrepreneur for other forms of payment that must be cheaper, more transparent and faster we will not be able to support. It will probably be a reminder and management to try to create new products and make these 177 Rules of Procedures, that these 5,000 people, these 10,000 computers and five of the highest quality softwares, function differently, in the role of Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74321	Thank you. The chairman of the FINA Supervisory Board, Finance Minister Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, when something comes out of the context and it's said that FINA last year made a cash traffic of so many hundreds of billions and it's not a naked fact, then it turns out to be terrible. However, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you should have and you could have heard it from my opening report that FINA is now doing a full-time job at its cash center for all commercial banks. So, it's the total traffic of cash made in the Republic of Croatia. The thing is, every country has its own cash centers, depending on the size of the traffic. Some have two, three. For example, the state of the size of Croatia needs a cash centre. Whether it will be owned by FINA, whether it will be a joint company of business banks in the Republic of Croatia, but the cash centre is conducting a complete preparation and filling of ATMs and all other things to be done in order to deal with cash. And to say that it is only a mistake of FINA and that FINA is carrying out that traffic is not well clean because of the Croatian public. Because FINA was doing it both for ZABU, for PBZ and Erste and for Raiffaissen and for all the business banks. And that's why I said that one of the key projects for FINA this year is the final deal with the business banks around that cash center. You know that because of the higher earnings and the more profitable and profitable way of doing business that the foreign currency banks still have over themselves. They don't want to leave it to cash centers. So much for cash and FINA and cash traffic. So it is not traffic that FINA potential cash payment but is the cash payment of the complete financial sector of the Republic of Croatia that goes through the cash centre of FINA and that is the only truth. We can say whatever we want in the daily political needs, but this is the truth that should be presented as such to the Croatian public. And as for the filling of the FINA counter with this, it is not convenient after three years to return to that before, however, all these contracts are with individual banks, above all I mean the Split Bank, Mr. MPs were signed during the former administration and during the former government. I was here as a representative in 2002 saying that it was a crucial moment because since anyone who understood himself in finance knew that because of the progress of technology and so on payment traffic would be increasingly and more performed by the business banks themselves with their clients, then it would go less and less through FINA. That the need to merge the FINA and then the Post Office Bank for one reason is strengthened both. However, I would remind you that the business of the FINA is also involved by Regos by very strange criteria. I guess Croatia is the only country in the world that pays e-processing costs for the private Mirovinski Fund. And that was the same in other times. And when you inherit something, some kind of obligation then very much, and you give some kind of right, then it's very hard to take it away. It is therefore logical that income from payment turnover not only of the FINAs but of any institution is reduced because these are new commercial products offered by business banks with the aim of attracting clients. But that's why FINA is opening new products with which she wants to make up for those revenues. Among other things, it's incorrect about "Hurry HR". You know that "Quick HR" in 2005 did not do business all year long but that offices were opened during the year. Some are open at the end of the year. However, when you see the 2006 report, then you will see that the number of open offices is far higher, and as far as HAMAG and Investment Encouraging Agency are concerned, they are located in the Ministry of Economy. They have their function accurate. But I repeat, the counters of individual banks have been opened long before both these administrations and these governments. They were made by someone else under very strange conditions and very strange conditions. So it's not good to forget, it's not good to forget, and it's not too much to remind when certain events happen that are being criticized by some who really have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74323	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74324	Thank you very much. I really don't know what to fix. Everything is more or less incorrect what Mr. Minister said. But only if FINA doesn't prefer a cash increase, which is why the only increase in this sector is 26% more than last year? Mr. Minister, it is true that the former government has put banks in FINA to be available to citizens. In three years, however, you failed to put the Croatian product in FINA. So I ask you as chairman of the Supervisory Board to try to place the products of Post Office Bank and Croatian Insurance in at least the last year of office if you have not succeeded in three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74325	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74326	... Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] More than 5,000 employees in 177, at 177 different locations covering almost the whole of Croatia give us the first picture of FINA as the leading companies in the area of financial mediation. The high professional level of employees and expertise enables different projects which were characteristics of business and during this 2005 reporting period. In 2005, FINA successfully co-operated with business banks, the Croatian National Bank, numerous business systems and partner countries in the area of public finances where it implemented several comprehensive and key projects. To become what it is, the leading financial institution FINA has introduced a series of changes and improvements in business processes. Change in processes that have become generally accepted service providers by meeting the day-to-day needs of each individual client, by carrying out transactions, by providing information and electronic services such as no other institution provides. ... In 2005, the project "Quick HR" was implemented through which during the last reporting year, not throughout the year, because... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] more than 1300 companies and crafts opened, and more than 3000 citizens requested information on the services of the service. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The project received many commendations from domestic and international institutions. In addition to the establishment of companies and the opening of crafts, the service offered services "E-Regos" and "E cadastre" and also recently through the "Swift HR" service the payment of VAT is also available. In 2005, FINA introduced itself on the market with a brand new product, and it is a FINA card that has become a universal platform for all forms of electronic business, which, thanks to electronic signature, guarantees to business operators maximum security when performing business transactions with the Internet. The options of this card are numerous and in addition to payment can be provided, and electronic signature gives access to FINA's "vet" services, the "vet bon" register of annual financial reports to "quick HR" services "E Regosa", "E catastra" and "E VAT" and "E pension". In addition, FINA also participated in a project to arrange the digitisation of land books and catastra in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Given that in 2005, 115 million transactions were processed, FINA maintained its leadership in payments with 63% share in the total number where the particularly significant characteristics and quality of FINA speed became a key reason for its confidence with FINA. The Center of the National Clinical System of the NKS is currently the only clinical house in the Republic of Croatia, but nevertheless, given the preparation of the Republic of Croatia to join the EU, trends in the development of European interbank systems and their mutual cooperation are monitored. The processing, storage and distribution of cash is an organisational part which FINA performs both on behalf of and on behalf of the Croatian National Bank and on those transactions carried out for commercial purposes for business banks and other business entities. In addition to all other transactions carried out in FINA, and regardless of the fall for last year, since income is the value of one billion kuna and gross profits of 66 million kuna, and I say, although smaller compared to 2004 and 2003, they give the right to hope that FINA will, along with the new programmes it will accept and with the development it has had and so far, as regards the programme offered by the market, become a widely accepted Croatian service server on the Croatian financial market.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74327	Thank you. Dear Representative, Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a few things I would like to actually, if it is possible to get an answer, and it is, of course, FINA's business, i.e. in one segment concerning actually the security systems in FINA as one of the project holders and HITRO HR and HITRO NET. So one of the main tasks of the e-Croatia programme was to take measures to establish the security information and communication systems of the state administration and at national level. Thus, in 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Information Security Programme in the Republic of Croatia and adopted a plan to implement the National Information Security Programme in the Republic of Croatia for 2005. In 2006, a proposal for a National Information Security Policy is to be prepared, and it is reportedly necessary to start by establishing an adequate level of information security in individual bodies, all of which, in any event, springs from this national programme that I mentioned earlier, as well as from this implementation plan of the national programme which was also written. What's interesting about the implementation of the programme is that in February 2004, a contract for the construction of a part of the so-called "FINA" was signed with FINA. IT DATA Center, or one security room, is better said exactly what I'm talking about. Therefore, insurance and information security and any other than physical, physical destruction, or better to say, is therefore a matter of physical protection and information systems and data which they contain and the overall business of the FINA. So when I say physical protection, it's about protective salamis, fire protection systems, smoke, floods, moisture, break-ins, explosions, gases and things like that. Of course, certain locations should be protected, a certain part of FINA’s business, archives and the information system itself. And it is not something that is hot water, so it is not something that we discover, but it is something that FINA as a monetary institution of the state must certainly do and according to the European Union directives within a certain period, and certainly also because of meeting the European Union rules. Therefore, it is not something that can and does not have to be done, but it is simply an imperative that this must be done at some time and certainly before entering the European Union. What's interesting is that it was concluded in February 2004 by a contract to build one part of such a security hall, i.e. IT DATA Center, that this contract was also concluded with a company that works for the state and the state, which is "The People's Newspaper" and that now there's actually a deadline when such a contract must be consumed or the other party to the contract will have to sue it. If sued, therefore if not consumed, FINAs threaten 3 to 5 million kunas in fact losses, i.e. to pay the cost of making a lost profit, which due to an unfulfilled contract, etc. What I really care about is that here I am clearly and loudly told why this is not done, why it does not care and think whether and when FINA will justify this loss which is actually the result of the unfulfilled contract during 2005, and we are discussing that part of the report. We are also discussing this period of the report. I would also like an entirely concrete answer to the question why FINA cancelled one tender that she opened last year, and it was a tender for the purchase of two machines to manipulate from counting money and other manipulation of money for business in Poreč, because they actually arrived, so legally two offers arrived and they certainly differ, one bigger one smaller. I can't see, I haven't seen it from the tender itself, for offers that have come for no reason for that competition to be annulled. Why it was annulled, why the machines were not obtained, etc.? That's what FINA's 2005 business report is all about. Of course, you can answer whatever you want. The easiest answer will be the Public Procurement Act, no problem at all. However, what I am stressing now, this hour under the Public Procurement Act, was completely legal and normal. And I have to admit that I don't even know what the exact amounts are about, but probably a few million dollars, a few million kunas certainly cost such machines, I don't know exactly how much. But he loved an entirely concrete answer why it was annulled, whether it was an office that cared about the public procurement competition or Finna had other reasons and whether or not it actually meant that she had given up buying these machines, etc. But anyway, that's it, so I'd like to take these two old ones if I can get a metric response, and I'm especially saying about this part about actually physical protection of information systems and the implementation of measures that the government itself has taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74329	Thank you. The chairman of the FINA Supervisory Board, Finance Minister Ivan Schuker, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very short. I would like to thank everyone for the debate, and I cannot answer the two half-private questions of Mr. Rožić because the supervisory board does not take care of any purchases in some areas. So to this all you've asked, you're going to get written answers, and I think it would be illusory to expect me to know about some kind of exposure in Poreč or something, and that would be incorrect and unfair to give you an incomplete answer, so here's a written answer. Also about this contract, which was concluded with the People's Newspaper, there's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74331	I'm closing the debate. Annual report on the financial agency's 2005 business. I am voting on the following conclusion: the report on the work of the Financial Agency for 2005 is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 69 votes for, 16 abstentions and 4 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, we will give a brief explanation for the bill. Namely, the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to bring agricultural legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union was signed in Zagreb on 8 May 2006. The harmonisation of agricultural legislation with the acquis of the European Union for us, therefore, represents the harmonisation of our legislation with European Union legislation and also the creation of institutional and administrative assumptions for the implementation and control of agriculture legislation. This loan agreement is the total value of 25.5m euros. The share of the Republic of Croatia in the financing of the project is 11m euros and these funds are planned in the budget, the state budget from 2006 to 2010. It should also be noted that, in addition to this loan agreement, the Dutch Government approved 4m euros for the implementation of this project for the harmonisation of agricultural legislation. The purpose of this gift is to assist in the implementation of the project in order to ensure additional assistance through the activation of both international and local technical assistance as well as training in the country and abroad. As far as donations are concerned, they are the grants of the Dutch Government and it is in fact the largest individual gift ever approved for a project by the Ministry of Agriculture of Independence. As regards the very terms of the loan, i.e. the loan is therefore 25.5m euros, the loan is due on 31 October 2010. The principal's payment starts in five years. The first and last date of repayment is 15 April 2011 until 15 October 2020. The method of payment is half-yearly. The interest rate is 2.72%. The initial fee is 0.25% of the principal amount of the loan. It is due on the date of entry into force of this loan agreement and is paid by the loan funds. As for the refund for the unused amount of loans, so the penals, they amount to 0.35% of the annual unused amount of loans. The Legislative Committee, after the debate, was given certain nomotechnical remarks, which are absolutely acceptable, which are governed by the text. But it was also discussed about the bill, his name. It is thought that he, the name of this law and the name of this loan agreement, is to unresponse enough with the contents of the loan itself. This 25.5m euros is not the money to be used for consulting services and to be used to write laws. So that's the money that, I'm going to, I'm going to have here and a table where exactly is specified and states what it's going to be used for. So the term here is that it's a harmonisation of agricultural legislation, but the way we mean it. So adapt legislation, create institutions that will implement it and also create institutions that will monitor the implementation of all those measures and complete agricultural policies. So out of these 25.5m euros, the loan contract envisions that 11m million and 250 euros will be allocated for works, so building buildings. The loan also set out that 6m and 600,000 euros will be allocated for the purchase of goods. Also for the development of the Agricultural Policy and Accounting Study, the pilot of the project is a million and 450 thousand euros. For operational costs, so units at the Ministry of Agriculture for the implementation of this project, for the production of websites for advertising, for office materials and equipment, for the maintenance of vehicles and equipment, for the publication of reports and promotion of 650 thousand euros. Then for the financial guarantee mechanism, it is a Croatian small economy agency that will provide a 4m-euro fund from this loan and will cover guarantees for those units of local self-government that cannot cover the risk of investments that want to be realised in rural development and also includes an initial fee of 63,000 and 750 euros. As regards works and buildings that are scheduled to be implemented from this loan, this is all the construction of the Veterinary Institute, then the construction of the Plant Protection Institute, then the construction of a GMO laboratory, that is, the food analysis laboratory, that is, seeds at the Seeding Institute in Osijek, then regional offices for the purpose of inspection of veterinary and phytosanitary and Payment Agency. As regards the purchase of goods, it contains the purchase of office equipment, furniture, personal computers, inspection equipment and for the purposes of these institutions, then there are laboratory equipment and materials, so for accredited and authorized laboratories, then computer equipment and networking for the paying agency, for the Ministry of Agriculture and Laboratorys, especially for this food safety system, then there are computer programs and databases for the paying agency, for the Ministry of Agriculture and Laboratory, then multimedia information packages and vehicles for inspection services. Therefore, EUR 25.5 million of this loan will be used for the most part for the work and supply of goods, then one part for the study and for the guarantee fund to help our units of local self-government with a weaker financial capacity to realise these projects. As regards the consulting services that are necessary for the implementation of this project, especially since it is about the introduction of some new systems in agriculture, they will be paid exclusively from the Dutch Government's gift note, hence the money we are not returning in the form of loans or in the form of loans, and in fact there is a great help from this gift box so there will be advisors for... The Agency, then advisers for the establishment of IAX, an integrated administrative control system, then advisers for the paying agencies for the risk of management, advisers for the Guarantee Fund, analysts for the management capabilities of the Ministry, experts for the analysis of agricultural policy, food security advisers, and in particular regarding the Food and Development Agency and its development and consultants for sanitary and phytosanitary inspection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, once again, it is concluded that this part of the consulting services will be exclusively paid from the Dutch Government's gift. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74335	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? He's taking over the club debate. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74336	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So the question of all questions at this point in this law or contract to whom you trust, whether you trust the Secretary of State or trust the text of this contract. Because they're different in importance. If we look at the text and the name of both the law and the contract, and we know that the legal principle is that the name of the law should correspond to the content of the law, it is suggested that Croatia takes EUR 25 and a half million in order to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. So it's contained in the name of the law and the contract, and so it's visible in the very text of the contract. And in the very text of the contract, it's so visible. And now we, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, have asked for this issue to be resolved on the Committee on Law and only today have we heard the State Secretary's opinion on this matter, but there remains a problem that what the Secretary of State said does not appear in the text of the contract. So first of all, we must be deeply concerned about the fact that we all have laws regarding financial obligations and contracts do not get here at the Croatian Parliament for confirmation. That's one, that's the deal, that's enough, but that's just proof how sloppy they are, how they're doing it. And it is that the Croatian state, that Croatian citizens are in charge. Just imagine that, that the objective of the contract is to take as it stands in the name, to borrow loans to bring our legislation into line with the legal gains of the European Union is to be related to the area of agriculture, so that is one of the chapters, and there are thirty and something, according to that logic we would only need for this part of the consulting and everything else. And it's good that the secretary of state made that clear, but that's not in the contract, that's the problem. Further, look, and now everything, on page 13, you have under point P says the operating manual is adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and acceptable to the bank in which the procedures for the implementation of the projects are described and which include an environmental management plan as an integral part, and it is possible to change from time to time if the bank agrees. So now we're all back to square one again. And what the Proposer himself told us at the Legislative Committee that it is possible to change the intentions of funds withdrawn from the International Bank or loan in progress, in the process. Now, do we even know what we're talking about today? Furthermore, the secretary of state also incorrectly said, which is visible on page 23, Appendix 1, says the consulting services will go only from the Dutch government's gift shop. It is incorrect because you have here under the 3rd consulting services and training of a million and four hundred fifty thousand Euros, and with that four million of the Dutch Government's gift, that means five million and four hundred fifty thousand Euros. Now the question is who and how does it negotiate for Croatia? Let's say about the gift shop. It could not be negotiated that the gift does not go to four million euros in consulting services, to go to other important matters in the area of agriculture. So last week, we discussed the Law on Food, that is, the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which should have introduced an effective system for Croatian citizens to know that they eat healthy and controlled food and we delayed it for three years even though it was enough three years when the law was passed to establish the system. For such things to stand in the contract we would support in the Croatian Party club, but unfortunately this is an eclectic proof of how bad contracts are done and made, I don't know who is here on the legal side of the radio, but what was done in that part shows us that in this way we can no longer accept such contracts as we are taking loans because in the end we don't know what this loan is taken for, whether what it is used for is written in the name or for what the Secretary of State said or for what it is going to change everything as the Secretary of State has said, and as it stands for you I say on page 13 of this. Therefore, I propose that the first reading of this proposal be carried out and that a clear message be given to the Government to watch who is being sent to negotiations and what is being negotiated and what Croatia accepts because we here vote on behalf of voters whose votes we have entered the Croatian Parliament and we need to know what these funds will be spent on, without telling us what the situation in the area of agriculture is, which all the problems are present and the question is what we will do if the exact information of the Prime Minister is that we can enter the European Union in 2009, agriculture is unprepared and we will bring even more to the worse position of Croatian peasants, and now it is in an uninviable position. So, we propose, we cannot support as a club a final proposal, we propose that the first reading be done and that such creamy contracts are no longer done in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74337	Thank you. HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74338	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would try to look back in my debate at the essence of this loan, we think that there are parts that this loan is quite necessary because since we are not able to organise ourselves it seems that we will pay big money to help us some other and most of this money should just go to give us a loan so that the same loan is spent on paying our minds that I think in Croatia with a little good will and effort we could make ourselves. This is one of the basic questions that, with another, the HNS Club will propose, as well as the HSP Club, that this be the first reading in order to crystallise some things so that they know what we're raising our hand for and what goal we want to achieve. In fact, we know, but we would like that goal to be clearly shown here and that we can safely say why we are raising the loan and why we raise our hand. As far as the loan funds are concerned, the work of 11 million 136 000 and 250 euros means. I think, gentlemen, by building all these objects that are being suggested to us here that it is not a matter of having them and that they are especially needed in preserving health, examination, food, etc. However, has all the possibilities been raised since in all the county centres, where regional buildings may be needed to renovate what the ministry has done to try to negotiate with the counties, the state, etc. to build, renovate some buildings to make less cost, so that it doesn't go into complete construction of everything that should be. As regards the objective of the project, develop sustainable systems and capacities and other public institutions in order to ensure timely coordination with the conditions for harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union in the rural sector. 1st Part A: Strengthening capacity for the acquisition of European Union financial assistance for the agricultural sector, the SAPHAARD administrative body, the establishment of the SAPHAARD management body in the Ministry of Agriculture, the strengthening of production capacity and monitoring of SAPHAARD and development, the implementation of the SAPHAARD communication strategy. It's obvious from this that we're only selling our brains. Second, the payment of the Agency for the establishment, payment of the Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture including the authorised payment of the SAPHAARD agency, the construction and equipment of the regional branches of the paying agency in regions outside Zagreb and the establishment of a comprehensive... within the agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the part that can stand, which we support and we know, we are aware that we need in all regional food control centres, etc., but SAPHARD's financial guarantee mechanism for risk coverage, the establishment of SAPHARD's financial guarantee mechanism for users of the SAPHARD banks, strengthening and managing the management of the agriculture ministry. So if the Ministry of Agriculture hasn't learned how to manage so far, I don't know which consulting companies should teach us. Provide technical assistance and training to strengthen capacity for policy analysis, policy analysis units at the Ministry of Agriculture. My colleague and I know exactly what we're talking about, and my colleague Pero Kovacevic and I speak exactly what it is. We're being sold out of our minds, and for that money could be made a lot more, nothing here has been said in this whole loan about the wholesale system that they finally work, about the stock market, about fish and clams. So what's most important here isn't in this proposal, and that's why the HNS is now about going to another reading and Kristalizing some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74339	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74340	Mr. Vice President, I think it is necessary for the public to correct the allegations that, on several occasions, a respected colleague has said that this loan is used exclusively for the purchase of other people's brains or consulting services. On the contrary, just the opposite. So over 90% of the funds in this loan will be used for large-scale capital investments in the area covered by only one small or small part of what you were talking about. It does not state that this loan is exclusively used to buy someone's brains or consulting services.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74341	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74342	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Representatives and Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and this for the project of harmonisation... EU legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, it is important to note that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is indeed the most important financial institution that has been monitoring and continuously and versatilely supporting both economic and social development and reforms on the way to the market economy and here since '93. Up to today, a total of 36 loans have been concluded, of which 26 direct and 10 direct loans, with a state guarantee of 1.2 billion euros, which are not negligible. And also in this way, we got 217 million kuna aid in the form of gifts means technical assistance according to the loans and aid provided. Indeed, they place the bank as one of the most important sources of financial assistance from the international area. This law essentially confirms the contract signed since 8 May 2006 and that part of the 25 and a half million loan is essentially an integral part of a project worth 40 and a half million euros and almost 300 million kunas that really need in agriculture, and really besides all these 36 here and this 37. I'm really glad he's going to agriculture and for the sake of agriculture. With this loan and 25 million and also the entire 11 plus 4, we think we will achieve results in developing rural areas and also strengthen the management and administration of the ministry. And just as it was mentioned recently and recently on the HasAP programme means for the health level of food, phytosanitary conditions, and I think that the final results will certainly be that we will increase competitiveness and access to all markets but also absorb these investments from family, agricultural economies, agricultural businesses also increase revenues in rural areas, meaning in rural areas. And here I saw that already the call for part of the funds to be financed is the service of the previous evaluation of Croatia... the 2007 plan – in 2013 because the IPA programme since 2007 will be used in Croatia to replace the now pre-accession funds of PHARE, SAPARD, ISPA and CARDS and to prescribe financial assistance to Croatia and will consist of five components. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very important that one of these components is the rural development of the IPAR which should be the continuation of the SAPARD and that loan in any case I think I've heard that these are expensive funds. I'm sure they're not expensive funds when they're 5... With a period of return from 2011 to 2020 with 2.7% interest, however, those objectives that this contract provides will be fulfilled, that it is indeed time to meet those funds by 2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the aim of the projects in any case must be the administrative body of the SAPARDA, not only here in Zagreb but also in regional centres. The paying agency to make payments to the paying agency and this SAPARD's financial, unique risk-covering mechanism so that this ministry can actually function as it should in that administrative part of the ministry. But it is also important that both the establishment and organisation of a connected and well-informed management team in the ministry, that separate funds are technical assistance, then the improvement of the agricultural and information centre and the register of agricultural holdings, as well as the establishment of a pilot of a network of data for accounting, agriculture, economies in that centre. And a unique information system. And now we're coming to maybe the most important thing we've mentioned recently. Development of Croatian Food Agency. And it's normal to develop regional centres, veterinary, epidemiological units, improvement of veterinary institutes,... the plant health laboratory and establish this in my opinion a very important authorised laboratory for testing genetically modified organisms just so that we can also in our primary production monitor the development of not allowing genetically modified products to get out of control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the basis of this above, I think it is necessary to support this law and that these resources are needed in Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74343	On behalf of the HSSA Club, distinguished representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74344	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here's a few sentences regarding this Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Well, I think the dear colleague now that he's finished his debate, Tomic said, perhaps one important thing to me, that the money for agriculture is needed. I agree with you, Mr. Tomic. Not only is the money needed for agriculture, it's very necessary and I think we have this law today. It would be extremely good if we now discussed, for example, the rebalancing of the Croatian budget and could allocate more funds for agriculture. And that's the question that's being raised. I think we're all aware and the Secretary of State can confirm it or deny it. Let him do his thing. We are now at an extremely difficult moment. There are almost no funds that could be raised in the agricultural budget after the payment of these 50% that were promised, only 50%. It was promised 100% for the wheat. And we're in big trouble. Almost money doesn't come for field subsidies, people call, the situation is extremely difficult. So the need for money is the need for money for agriculture. Now the question is, is it a loan? I think we'd all be happy and happy if this were a possibility if it wasn't for a loan, but to raise funds in a budget that would solve the current situation. However, this loan has nothing to do with it, it is quite something else and unfortunately makes it impossible to do other things but I think because of the Croatian public, I was obliged to stress that the money for agriculture is certainly needed but this loan does not solve it. We have so far had a series of loans and here it is mentioned, all these loans as well as these are used and the main tasks are that he gives support to the programme of structural and institutional reforms. The aim is to increase the flexibility and efficiency of the economy. Job creation needs to be created, exports growth, strengthening market institutions and fixed discipline, improving the system framework to encourage a more competitive economy, leading to a more favourable environment for development and strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and reducing the grey economy. I think there is always a question of where these financial resources have been used in terms of looking at these objectives of export growth, promoting competitiveness and strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, reducing the grey economy that are listed in these objectives. But we're wondering what we should have here, too, when it comes to this loan, clear answers to that. If we look at things the way they are now, then we hear, for example, and we read in the daily press that the Chief of the Department of Veterinary Control at the Department of Veterinary Control of the slaughterhouse says that the effectiveness of the inspection is conditioned by the work of the judiciary. It is found that two years ago they tried to find out what was going on with the misdemeanor reports and that about 80% of these reports went out of date. We know we discussed the Food Act. A control system will have to be introduced through HasAP and ISO standards. In three years, the government unfortunately extended the deadline for those standards and we still know that those rules are not drawn up which they need to. We can ask ourselves one question if we're taking a loan for something that needs to be fulfilled and if we've delayed the application, we've talked about it for too long and we're taking the loan in that part. I think it's necessary to point out again, not to point out now, but when I mentioned the subject of all those regulations and all that objectively we haven't done the Food Act yet because it's necessary and I think it's necessary this time too. What is set as crucial from which it should react, however, how much of the loans were used to increase exports, whether we can know who was using funds to increase exports and whether it was even increased through exports. When we look at these goals and the current state, unfortunately we come up with devastating facts and it's importing us growing from year to year. The data that is very alarming, which I received from the Chamber of Commerce, speaks of an extremely large deficit especially in the part of these summer months that was a move and which are withdrawing do not give real results in that part. The question of all the questions is always whether or not some loan we're raising and which we're going to have to pay off, is it going to give some results. I don't think anyone's slowing down from us here that this loan has its own, I'd say advantages, it's favourable, relative length of return, but we need to know the real effects. Whether sometimes all of us together go into a detailed analysis of a particular loan or if it is just here are the funds and then it will have to be returned and for a number of years in agriculture they need, it is difficult to make a real assessment at least of us in the Croatian Parliament. I think it would be extremely good if the ministry made such analyses and clearly said okay, the loan is necessary, it will be used for that, and it will certainly be convenient for us in that part. When we also talk about the effectiveness of inspections, I think it is also necessary to mention once again this section relating to the judiciary whether this reform of the judiciary will affect the fact that such applications do not end in obsolescence, whether this is an accident or it happens for other reasons. But in any case, I think the total of Croatian citizens who consume all that food should take care of it. In this section, it says that this loan will encourage the development of the Croatian Food Agency. We must add that the ministry and the agency will adopt another fifteen implementing rules necessary for the implementation of the Food Law in order to achieve the part we all want, which is that our domestic production is competitive and not only on the domestic market but also on the international market. It also stands for the project to establish a national veterinarian public-dated reference laboratory and a reference laboratory for plant health that would apply the same standards, testing methodologies including investments in construction works, staff capacities, information management and equipment. A licensed laboratory for the examination of genetically modified organisms would be established at the Seeding and Dispersion Office. It lists very specific things here. Of course, we got them here as a suggestion. We're not sure, we need to be honest with each other whether they're the best-chosen ones. We should have talked about it, or we should have talked more. I don't mind one such laboratory being at the Department of Seeding and Dispersion but I am truly afraid that given the information in which we have been able to license and accredit from sixty laboratories in Croatia to five, I am afraid that this dispersion without a stronger centralisation in one place does not provide those preconditions that we have spoken much more about in the Food Act. I also mentioned when we talked about the Food Act, I don't mind that since it's the headquarters of that Food Agency in Osijek. However, it is important whether the agency is doing its part of the work that should be done, and then it is being set up and in this part we are taking the loan, we will do one part of the job, which will be except for the return that we will have to repay. Is that going to give those effects that we'd all like? I think there's also a question of what's going on with the implementing regulations relating to GMOs. I don't think those implementing regulations and certain actions have been made. We objectively right now, so here and this is where we go to certain labs. We've prepared the whole thing in that part, but we haven't even said that it's necessary that my logic should be banned GMOs until we do, we have all these things prepared in that part. It also states on page 6 that the funds obtained under the loan contract will be used in the component of strengthening management and management at the Ministry. This component would also quote "enhancing capacity to analyse agricultural policy by mobilising domestic and international consultants." I think the question is whether we need international consultants to analyse agricultural policy. If we need them, you claim to be paid from the gift shop. Col. Pero found that it was not true, but in this part itself, the principle question is whether we are going to use this part of the means in reality for a good way to strengthen this structure within the Ministry, or what has happened to us so far, and I need to ask you again why it violates Article 43. The agricultural law, which is that of the annual report on the situation in agriculture in the previous calendar year, so-called A green report shall be produced by the Ministry, delivered to the Government by 15 May of the current year at the latest, and delivered by the Government to the Parliament by 30 June of the current year. The Green Report is based on regular monitoring and agro-economic expert bases, in accordance with the rules adopted by the minister. The Green Report is being published. I don't think it should be repeated that it's the Ministry's obligation. It is begun, unfortunately we have no more green reports and we who want to talk about the overall agrarian policy related to this part would unfortunately rather do so so that we can talk about the Green Report. Let us analyse the professional and responsible part of the work that has been done, which has not been done, but unfortunately it does not come here before us to Parliament. We're discussing here, I'd say some things like this loan, some things like regulation reports, and we haven't had a chance to discuss what's been done this year? Why are we in this situation? Why isn't there any money in the budget? What's gonna happen to us? What will be the results of all this? Unfortunately, we don't have such answers, and it would be much better if we got them. So here I again appeal that this body should need much more information that we should get about the really spent loans in which direction it is going, the reasoned, analytically designed that we, as here, as Parliamentarians can raise hands for this bill. Since it wasn't done that way, we certainly can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74345	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the honourable representative of Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74346	Mr. Vice President, so here's my dear colleague Pankretic now that the Rules of Procedure would allow after this debate he and I could mention ourselves long and wide. But I'm gonna go fix what I answered for. He's questioning whether money needs agriculture? He says he should. And then he asks the rhetorical question is that the best loan? How do you get a colleague Pankretić to get money without a loan in agriculture? So it's not only incorrect, it's completely wrong. Then you raise doubts why there is no money for agriculture in the budget? Well, if I'm not mistaken, it seems to me that you've been Minister of Agriculture for four years. I don't know if there was any money in the budget back then or if it's the same condition as today. Let's let it go now, let's just accept something else. Agriculture has been in a difficult state, and not now, but in the last 30 years. I can responsibly argue and prove to the argument that the farm has never been worse in the last 30, 35 years, but while you were at the head of that ministry. Just to remind you, the crime was booming at the time. That's what I've talked about at least 20 times in this House. Imports so we don't talk. Imports are a disaster today. But in that moment...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74347	I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74348	When we take the curve...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74349	Focus on correcting the incorrect allegations, you cannot argue./... how many imports there were then I am still fighting imports. But you're the last one who can talk about it. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with his associates. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here's a question for me. I have no doubt about the loan. I know that funds have to be made in a variety of ways. I even think they're good for interest rates, payments and everything. But I'm asking myself a question here for the Ministry of Doom. I do not yet feel that as a state, as an independent, the Republic of Croatia is determined by the model of agricultural production, general agriculture because we know what Croatian agriculture is? What kind of Croatian model is that? Why am I asking that? I'm asking for it because science is coming to us now, mind from the Netherlands. And you know that old saying: "When the Danish bring you gifts that you must fear them," I fear that donation. I fear donations for the sake of consulting these services, better say brains and conditions of implementation and agricultural policy. It's heaven and earth. The Netherlands and Croatia as beautiful as we are, better and so on are incomparably more developed, more organized. I'm guessing there's not so much corruption or bribery or crime there and they're probably a more well-organized state than we are. There's only one supplement we've heard that's found out at the beginning of crime, but then it doesn't sanction, somewhere it ends up like this. And I agree with what Mr. Loncar said: "If there were, if there was a crime, I did not experience that there was sanctions and that someone was punished and so on." She crossed over, ate a cat, didn't she? And no one, yes, I wouldn't talk about it right now. It's not even mine to talk about. And that's why this doubt I'm making right now. I'm seriously wondering what our brains are. I seriously wonder where our scientists are? And I'm seriously asking, and this is the Ministry's warning for what, but what's the reason that emissaries come all the time and convince us that this or that's wrong? My doubt stops there, and I'm sure I know the answer. They don't offer us solutions to help us, but to unearth the door for themselves, and to set foot in this small village, in this darkness, and we don't know how to rise above this mud. Because our agriculture is now in the mud. And the fact is, it's not her today. The fact is, neither is this government to blame. Previously on "Government"... And to drag it all the time. And now that this kind of loan is obtained, I would also be happy that he goes into restructuring, that he goes into the design of one policy, that there is now, not this many millions but 10 times more for irrigation taken, that these are hundreds of thousands of hectares that could now be brought into culture, a working intensive culture that would double the income of no wheat and corn and then be satisfied. However, this question has been bothering me the whole time, which is why this is happening to us. Because all these emissaries, at least with whom I had to go from here as much as our Prime Minister and Bush mentioned themselves well now and from the Americans when they came and even Danish when they were coming, the Danes, so now the Dutch, and even our friends in the West, the first neighbors didn't know how much they had given us and didn't give us any clues, but they told us more times in the field we were looking forward to it until you made a step, because then we have as much of a bigger market. And unfortunately, we're witnessing that this is a wake-up call, and we're witnessing that a trade lobby is supporting this kind of policy that's happening and domestic production is actually destroying itself. So that doubt, I have to present to you as a parliamentary representative and as a man is tearing me apart, which is why I support all these measures that need to be made from the construction of institutes, laboratories, even though it's doubtful how much work he's going to have, maybe we're cheaper to pay in Vienna to do this to us than to have it ourselves, but let us have it all together. But I can't help but get the impression that this whole thing is helping us all just so we don't get better. And there's this whole time this one dispute in me why we don't jump out of that frame and make our brains scream, which is why she doesn't step out on her own. Not only the Faculty of Agriculture, Veterinary, Ministry, etc. was invited there. but also the individuals who quote high out and sell themselves well outside, who can work outside, and let us continue to garner in this mud, let us not get the mud up, let our production not grow, and let us be disorganized as we are. Believe me, if it's not all true, it's part of the truth. Because as soon as the outside consultants come, they want to rewrite their good experiences to us, and that's the cathedral and the Lower City's terribly large, large range, inapplicable. So in the future, I think it's good to get loans like this under favourable conditions, but they should be much, much more careful who our consulting services are, how they do to us, how these consulting services are applicable, how their science and our science, how they organize work and everything together takes us at least 20, 25 years to reach them, and that's now inapplicable. And another little remark. I think that all this loan falls back on all of us as consumers, because it should be returned and taken care of to what extent our farmer our budget, which our citizens who consume food, can carry all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74352	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74353	I respond to Mr Kolar's very justified question, which he said, asked where is the Croatian mind, where are Croatian scientists. I just want to say, Mr. Kolar, Croatian brains can't solve this issue on their own. This country must have its own strategy. We need to put education policy on this strategy, including scientific policy and technological transfer. Can you list one minister of science who, in agreement with the Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Economy, has opened tenders and told scientists if you are going to deal with this, this and these areas then we will finance you at the highest rate. If you are going to deal with this, this and these areas, then this rate is lower because it is less interesting for Croatia's development strategy. Therefore, coordination is needed, it needs to be systematically entered into matter and it needs to be systematically clear then perfected human resources, transferred technologies and everything else. Scientists themselves won't be able to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74354	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74355	Thank you for your help. I absolutely agree, and I think the time has come for me not to talk so loudly about it, because I am crying out for that science, and that the village needs a farmer in particular, but I guess it's the institution's concern from the ministry of one another, that now anyone is, of the minister who is acting on his duty to rely on his mind, his knowledge and to gather it together, and that they actually bring out what we need, which is that we're finally trying to be together, that we're better off, not that we're being prescribed by someone, and then that bitter pills we're drinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74356	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74357	Well, I agree in a lot with what my colleague Kolar said, and we're not just getting along right now, but for the last 15 years because we've been looking at agriculture quite the same way. However, I am not a colleague of Kolar unlike you against that coming money. I wish he could get as far from the outside as possible and we could send him to Croatian agriculture so she could get out of the glebe that she fell into 30 years ago and over and is always in that mushroom. The problem of Croatian agriculture is in the following, as it is not with any agricultural in the world, which, until today, we have our country for 15 years, we do not have a strategy to develop agricultural production. We were making it back in '95. who never came to life. The other big problem is import, it's really cancer wound, but he hasn't since yesterday. He's also 15 years old. For example, in the war we had a positive external trade balance on exports, and today it is incredibly negative. There's another problem. There's a problem that the import-export mafia is extremely well connected to the mafia in power. That's our problem. We don't have a balance sheet. I've talked about how many times in this House. Croatia has natural conditions and amazing scientific and professional potential to produce food for 20 to 25 million people, and we are the Croatians the largest food importers in Europe in terms of population. These are our problems. And it's no problem if we get the money. God forbid he's got as much as he can. Then the next problem of Croatian agriculture is not today and it is not since yesterday but much earlier, is that we still do not have regionalisation and the rationalisation of agricultural production. We need to change this criminal law on incentives passed by the government, and this one just patched it up a little bit. It's the law of all evil's source of all evil in that law, because in it happens such crime. Here it is, today it's a boy who's in charge of the peasant alliance there, so for example, when we look at the past five, six years he's been given in the name of encouragement. All we see here is that this law is a disaster and that it is a generator of crime, etc. etc. Let me get this straight. So I'm not against money, God forbid it comes as much as possible, to invest it in our agriculture because that's the only way we can solve our economy. Mr. Vice President, just one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74358	And you've already extended.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74359	No economy in the world has resolved its economy in the last 70 years until it stabilizes agriculture. That's what it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74360	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74361	Thank you very much. Well, I wasn't against the loan, and I think everyone's heard that he's a good guy, that if he spends well, I'm basically asking another question. And I don't think it should be smart that our wound cancer is definitely excessive imports, certainly, that destroys domestic production in one way or another because there's no new value except that a full-scale state register is being filled, but we're left with people without jobs, no, no, no, because sometimes when it was produced, it was being sold, it was being spent on confection, furniture, cars, I don't know what, now it's not, and it's true. I'm asking the question. Why do we not have a Croatian model of Croatian agriculture in Croatia? For every area, for the least, for the smallest region, that's Međimurje, let's do it afterwards. It's the Podravina in this area to Slatina, Virovitica and then Slavonia down, which is why we don't have for Lika, which is why we don't have, I'm asking the question. Because I'm afraid of the world model and I repeat it, I wouldn't want us to join the European Union as Bavarians, like the Styrians, as any nation now other than such Podravci, Međimurci, Zagorci, each with its own specificity that the world needs. The way we're gonna do it, that's our thing. Well, it's not an Englishman or an American or anyone. And that's why our brains can probably use all of us to pull it out and then we don't need any recipes, then we don't need any other people's brains. And another one. Mr. Lonchar, I expected this government to change the incentive system, the Encouragement Act, because I'm a model advocate already when we're preparing, a proponent of the model that's waiting for us, and I think we're a little bit adaptable. Unfortunately, however, I think it's such a sensitive question that neither you nor I will engage in this except rhetorical and declarative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74362	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Well, we have unfortunately, but a poor model of Croatian agriculture based on the fact that it's an import of food. The import of food is a model of Croatian agriculture. Unfortunately, we don't do what we have to do. We have tourism, we have agriculture, and two important branches where we could achieve both economic development and everything else. The very fact that 650m euros of imported food for the needs of the tourist season is already telling you enough about it. The very fact that we are importing, for example, bumblebees from the Netherlands today was for Pankretić 14.5 kuna, now one bumblebee 15.5 kuna, for pollinating Croatian tomatoes. And the fact that we're importing straw, importing hay, importing compost and there's only two, I don't think we're importing plums and I don't know what species yet. We're importing everything else. So you obviously said nice to that latin "watch out for the Danes and when the gifts are carried". That's the answer to all of this that we're talking about today, and it's time for us, I'm afraid it's gone. Unfortunately, we've already run out of time. And what are we doing? We're not doing anything systematic. Therefore, the situation is such that we really need to hold a thematic session on the situation in Croatian agriculture, see important strategies as well as in what way, because this will totally ruin Croatian peasants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74363	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74364	Mr. Vice President, Collar's colleague, I hope like all of us here, is not against the loan, but he is against spending that money untransparently. He noted that it would be good to maybe take part of the money or think about the irrigation system I'll only get some colleagues to help Kolara. The system of wholesalers, advisory services, analysis of the country, technical assistance on the ground, etc. etc. As far as this money is concerned that it is favourable and that it is necessary for Croatia we are very well aware and we are not against it, but we are in favour of it being spent transparently and may be on the sides where a part of the cake is needed, and moving into Croatian agriculture to become a real source of food in Croatia rather than importing food, and we are constantly talking about some of our abilities every day. My colleague Kolar just mentioned some things, and I'm helping him expand it. However, I think that we all want Croatia to take this loan together, but that it is transparent to know what is being spent on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74365	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74366	Well, it's hard to say what I wanted to say. I mean in one sentence. Well, clearly, I've set myself up. Against the loan in any case, he needs Croatian agriculture, but I asked myself a question, to the ministry, as long as we spend the funds that come this way and that someone is making us underpants. I feel it all the time... I feel it on myself. That's the point of the problem. If you don't feel it, if you think in the ministry it's not like that, then let's sit down, let's oppose the arguments. There's a problem. Because obviously we're in the middle of something. You don't think the decomposition of the village is happening now under the law. It happens on the basis of our positive rules that rule. Incentives can not be achieved by each individual but must be achieved by one who meets some quotas. Which is why we didn't process him as an individual and tell him the quota belongs to him because he has this kind of production, not to limit him to production like this or something. We've let major systems grow still under the grasp of the state and destroy these little ones. I see it in the field, for God's sakes, let's take a look at it. So it's happening to us that our village is going down where we're supposed to be left human, that he's a gardener, a cowman like these in Europe, that he's guarding our customs, our tradition, that the housing is appropriate for every resident of ours to have everything on the pile, that there's both a garden and a chicken and a pig and all that expensive, and we're talking about what we want to do from that village. God forbid we destroy this tradition of ours and all that actually sustains us. So if those funds were spent on it, so I'd be the last one who would be against it than I would be the first because I enjoy it and I enjoy it so nice in this Zagreb where every night I go home to sleep, then you can imagine how nice it is for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74367	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The question of loans is a question that is not really a question, it is imposed as a perfectly normal way if you want to regulate the legal framework for your agricultural legislation to call it in line with European Union legislation. And there's nothing controversial about me. Of course, if the funds are quality, then you should take them. These funds are of quality in that content. But if you want to create a legal framework, then you would do well to know the contents of that framework in advance, to know the measure of what you want to legally coordinate with a third. It is therefore not disputed here to take loans to bring the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia into line with the countries of the European Union. It's understandable, it's acceptable, it's necessary. Of course, at that level, neither do I have reasons for controversy, nor do I think it is necessary when touching only that part. Of course, what we can do on our own sometimes we try to transfer to someone third, try to justify or push with those who can give us certain loans or loans, and our part of the work that we need to do as a government, as a society, as a Parliament, usually we don't make it or we don't end it or do it the wrong way. What am I going to say? A strategy of the agricultural and food sector in the Republic of Croatia never to experience one of its constants, and to see it as a common goal from government to government. It is impossible to comply with the course of action in the country and that the part that is reportedly bound to the country, which dies annually at a rate of 4 or 5%, means that there is one strong descending path in the population, in dying, in disappearing, and that is not disappearing only when we look at the population trend but disappears at an annual rate of 7%, agricultural production that is related to the rural area. So she disappears even more. It disappears naturally under the pressure of what Kolar was saying, which is that large ones eat small ones, which is a natural reaction in the modern integrated world and economy. It's a natural thing. The big one eats the little one in order for someone to light up, somebody's got to be crushed. That's right, the world on these foundations exists. However, you tell me the one country in the world in which agriculture is dealing with all the problems on its own. Find one country in a world where agriculture is not extremely subsidized, find that country in the European Union. She's gone. But find one country where agricultural and food production works independently under market conditions. She's gone. The agricultural-agrarian sector is a sector that needs to be integrated into the overall economy and that is the only way to survive it. Because it is not enough to pawn all those who are extremely committed to this Parliament to produce well, to produce small family economies, to decentralise the system and to stop so-called farmers and those who think they all have to control them, and that these little peasants must wear grain, wheat and milk for them. I think all you have to do is stop thinking about how to produce. We have to sell it. Where can we sell it? And I guess first of all on the domestic market, a market where we can dictate the conditions. When we discussed the Law on the Encouragement of Agricultural Production a few months ago, it was then said that this was opposed to the tendencies of European legislation, etc. That's not true. There is a whole system of organization that directly encourages not only production but also the purchase and consumption of domestic products in our neighbouring Italy. And this was settled on the basis of the decentralised relationship of the regions in Italy itself as regions, let's say the Veneto region passed a law on what is produced and which represents the strategic artikle of the region of Veneto. This strategic item must be located in all shops, has priority over other goods and has direct subsidisation and consumption, gentlemen, not in production, we are not talking about production. Let's put her on the side. It is universally solved throughout the European Union. But what about consumption? We have now given up on the "Bought Croatian" wing, so he says let's buy the best quality, now it bothers. I'm not saying that we should not be loyal, correct and complete members of this future community. We absolutely should be. But if today we do not protect the resources that we have and if our agriculture does not stand on its feet to cover the needs of this market, and we are well, this year has been a success, over six and a half billion euros has been achieved in tourism, it has been confirmed through the National Bank data and everything expensive and it is extremely good. But the structure of this whole relationship is bad. Our tourism participates with 20 over 19% in the gross social product. In the European Union, on average, this relationship is between 4 and 6, Greece 7. What's going on? Why is it so big? They'd say everything, see how awesome it is, tourism has 20% of gross social product. It's not good, gentlemen, it's not good. Because tourism is a service activity that attracts goods from different goods that participate in this consumption. If it attracts more import goods than domestic goods, then it is a negative trend both in balance and in Croatia's debt, but also in those micro-effects of our companies. It's not about these 6.5 billion dollars just the poor structure of agricultural and food products, it's about the structure of equipment that participates with over 30% in the overall relationship in tourism. The equipment industry in Croatia has been completely neglected, and there is the wood industry that we have as a potential, we have not used it. Therefore, if we do not create the elements now, the tools for reviving our own domestic economy, so that they can compete on our own domestic market, if this market is still strengthened by the effect of tourism that I say has a €6.5 billion in 2011 to grow to €12 billion, then it is a market that makes it almost equal to what we now have within our regiment, Croatia. So we have one huge potential that we systematically misdirect. Once we enter the European Union, then these changes will not be able to work. It will then be a fully integrated market and no measures or sublegal acts will be able to change the sequence of relations and conditions. It's the same thing, I have to say here with the announcement of the eco-fishing belt. It's directly related to this topic that we're talking about, it's directly involved in it, and it's not up to anyone, it's up to us. It's not a subject for which a loan, which needs anything, needs no one's consent. All it takes is good will, and I think the alarm bell rings to do so and to do it all together and to be a Croatian concentration and to show that in agricultural-agrarian production we can create such a quality framework, such positive laws in which we will stop the death of the Croatian villages that we said died, unfortunately faster in the system of production, means activities of production capacity at a rate of 7%, and population at a rate of 4%. This is terrible, and if we don't stop it it will still be whether we will be in the European Union in 2008 or 2011. So let's realize that it's high time to talk seriously about this topic, to think about it, and to get in line with the views that we're not always going round and we're giving each other what it was like when you were you, what it's going to be like when there was someone else, and at the same time nobody's done enough, and that's that the locomotive has to go forward no matter who's behind the wheel. A locomotive called agricultural-agrarian production must go forward if we want to catch up to a slightly delayed position we have, but if we don't take steps now believe in a few years when we're in another position we won't simply be able to do it. So, not wanting to question this loan I support it, not wanting to question whether it's a good way to create a legal framework, it's good, I support it, I just want to warn about either our incomprehension or our ignorance or our politics, mostly a lack that we all keep showing together when it comes to something that we should have common content, a goal that absolutely must be common, but also methods we should jointly come up with that they don't work with two left hands or two right hands. That's what this discussion is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74369	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74370	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting an incorrect claim regarding ZERP. ZERP has been declared a colleague of Markov but does not apply to members of the European Union, and it is not a solution to the ZERP but is a solution to the economic belt which is an HSP proposal, and you have stolen it as a ZERP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74371	Replica, the esteemed representative of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74372	Here's a replica of my colleague Markov just to supplement what he didn't say. Agriculture is a very complex issue, as I just said no economy in the world has stabilised its economic system until it has solved agriculture. You said earlier that this year we will participate in gross income, that tourism will participate with 19%. Do you know agriculture which directly makes it as indirect as it participates in one economy? 52%. It's tourism, it's trade, it's transport, it's processing industry, it's primary production, it's chemical industry, etc., etc. That's the way to look at agriculture. In Croatia, what is agriculture? It is not just a social and economic issue, it is also a national issue. We have almost in the last 15 years where Croatian agrarian politics failed to clear our village. So, the national question. We don't have any more demographic growth we've had before, etc., etc. Then, in the world, how agriculture should be seen, and so should we in Croatia. Agriculture anywhere in the world is not an economic issue because of its specificities, but it is a political issue everywhere. Why? Because that's exactly the money we get from the budget we get from politics, not the economy. Why? Because in agriculture is a very small turnover of capital. He's 1.2 a year. For example, in some economic branches such as transport and tourism, capital is turned 20 to 25 times a year. So these are all these problems that we have to take care of, and the basis of the Croatian economy would just have to be food production, and its service must be tourism. A little while ago, Mr. Kolar was saying probably a little clumsy about regionalization, so he mentioned a međimurje, then a sub-level, so this one, and that one. No, we have Croatian agriculture, but Croatian agriculture has its specificities because Croatia is a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74373	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74374	Well, I agree with my colleague Lonchar, and in perception of looking through these figures on the whole thing, but let's do what we can and what our job is. Our assignment is very simple. We today have, despite the reduced volume of agricultural and agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, the fact that it is difficult to get to the market, and in particular that it is difficult to get to the priced service for the product you have submitted. Which is why these simplest, tiny steps that are known in the 1990s when we had famous self-government agreements between producers and consumers that worked as much as they did and we had different relations in the balance of payments both in agricultural production and in consumption. So these elements are very simple. I don't understand why we can't agree that the state has to deal with it, and we said that it's not economic or it's not a purely economic category of agriculture, so why don't we make that date through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and we don't direct those consumers who spend their food to stimulate them to spend their domestic food with very simple measures. They get HABOR loans they use to import, purchase equipment, supply raw materials and materials outside anyway. It's almost 70% of HABOR's credit goes right to the import component. Well, for God's sakes, that's state money, so why doesn't it go to consumption and buy domestic Croatian materials, food, raw materials, equipment that we have. Not the ones we don't have, but the ones we have, and the ones we don't have strategically should be encouraged if they participate, if they're going to participate tomorrow in consumption. It's simple, let's do it, and this second one I agree with.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74375	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his debate, a colleague Markov mentioned agreements between regions in neighbouring Italy. I think it's a good example, but the real example that happens on the territory of the Republic of Croatia was signed an agreement between the Istrian County and Vukovar-Srijem County a few seasons ago and where the accent was just given... agricultural products from Vukovar-Srijem County on the Istrian County tourist market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I believe that such agreements should also be considered in other counties in order for our tourism to rest on domestic agricultural production, not on import agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74377	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74378	Thank you very much. Here I was a little unfair when I talked about that there is no relationship between consumers in Croatia in practice between the markets anywhere in Croatian producers, of course, because I happen to be when I stay in Istria of the Committee on Tourism, convinced myself that there was a single step there, and that they connected to those production capacities in the Republic of Croatia which can supply their needs significantly in tourism and even in this area. Such ones, however, were also Dalmatia and others who had such examples before, and they were in some way alive. In new relationships, getting into the market, we're all a little lost together. We thought the market would solve what it couldn't solve. Namely, the market has no social character, it's not fair. It's the opposite, it's very rough. The market is ruthless. The market can't recognize it let's just say "ours and theirs". For the market is a game of prices and often unfortunately what should not be both paved goods and bad goods and unquality goods. And the goods we have to be ashamed of in tourism today. Today we have goods that we serve our tourists, which is not at the level of Croatia. We are selling something that does not contribute to increasing the reputation of tourism Croatia, but we are ashamed. And that's why we have to, tourists don't come to Croatia to eat Hungarian food, to eat Italian spaghetti or to eat French cheese. No! No! They come to Croatia to meet with something that is no longer in their country. The one that's gone. Slavonic tower does not exist but in Croatia. The prosciutto, unfortunately, has been neglected to the point where we no longer know whether we are the first or not to exist in this activity. The cheese we have is beautiful, which can be a world product, a world brand, we've kind of ignored it, so we're making fun of those who sell it along the road. They sell it along the road because they can't sell it otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74379	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here I will also use a few minutes to try to give some answers to the questions asked here in the debate. The debate was largely constructive in this regard as it also pointed to a clear set of problems, as this loan also touches many institutions and those legislative harmonisations and that supervisory mechanism which is therefore necessary to establish for efficiency. What's important is that we all realized together that the funds that come from this loan are favourable. What we believe and hold is that this loan will not be a debt in the right sense of the word but is an investment in development, it is an investment in those institutes and institutions that should increase efficiency, which should increase supervision and which should then return it to the state budget as a feedback. In fact, I think we all agree here that the establishment of the paying agency and within it of the SAPARD Agency, that this is a very important mechanism in the implementation of agricultural policy and that, in fact, a large part of these funds apply to it. Namely, what our experience tells us and it was firsthand information from Slovenia from their paying agency. When they set up the agency, then they came to the data, the figure that 60% of the incentives were incorrectly paid. So 60%. Of these 60%, 30% were false incentives, and 30% were poorly met documentation and these requirements, etc. And now let's take that fact, so set up a paying agency, establish a strong system, establish control of these incentives by using technology,... etc., how important it is for us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we just hypothetically put 2 billion kunas aside for incentives from that means somewhere around 600 million kunas could be hypothetically said if we take an example of Slovenia in the gray zone. Therefore, just the establishment of these mechanisms, the adoption and legislative legislation that is in the European Union will help us monitor these incentives and prevent the grey economy, which should also result in higher revenues in the state budget, i.e. the remaining more resources for a better schedule of these support. So that they are no longer so much in this manufacturing work but precisely to be given an accent on this rural development and what Mr. Markov was saying about indigenous products. I just want to tell you that France and Italy have about 150 protected products with designations of protection of geographical origin, with designations of protection of originality, with designations of tradition. And it's not right to say that these countries, that they want to leave it or leave it. In fact, huge efforts and huge regulations and funds are just tied up to protect these products, but in that sense, they become a brand available throughout the market, have good quality and have good production capacity, because we cannot cover two, three bigger hotels or restaurants by seasonal kitchen production. So, the point is to start the entire infrastructure, so from joining the producers, from increasing capacity and this joint is to control the quality both of the producers and of the state. Also, when we say we're going to invest in inspections, we're going to invest in phytosanitary, veterinary. In recent months, we've spent several controls and organized surveillance, and I don't know if we take 170, 180 registered slaughterhouses already closed somewhere around 40th, several veterinarians lost their powers, licenses, etc. Also, within 7 months of this year, there has been an increase in legal slaughter by 40%. And that's the data that says how much effort we have to make, how much experience we need from EU legislation to adopt, and these are the standards we need. So, not just for the sake of legislating laws and for some fashionableness, trends, but to really include it in the system, to learn from them how these situations are, the gray economy is always connected to some kind of fraud, so how they solved it to track down and such players on the market. The next thing you know, she's tied to consulting. Look. These 4 million euros that we receive from the Dutch Government are not written in a single word whose consultants, so they must be Dutch, British, I don't know German, etc., but are consultants that we will choose about the areas and needs we need. As for the engagement of Croatian mind. I think that's where we all agree, and I'll just mention that in screening, so that's what we had for agriculture, and that's considered one of the most successful screenings, that we've hired more than a hundred of our university professors of scientists, experts from the Institute, from college, and that the overall team that worked on screening is 350 people, so it's covered by various associations, producers, economic, craft chambers, etc. but also from our scientific institutions and universities. The Ministry also implements several programmes from the Council for Research in Agriculture, the Ministry of Science and Technology Projects and also in the Ministry of Agriculture marketing preparation where we involve our scientists. However, we must all be aware that as many as we include that there is still not enough. And second thing he doesn't have, there's no experience. So we need to get through these consultants these experiences from those countries that have set up such systems because we don't have time to train, learn and record for five years, but to apply tomorrow, introduce and engage. So we need those experts today. And I'm saying, we hire as many of our university professors as possible, my colleagues, etc. So what Mr. Kolar was saying about this legislation. So we don't have that choice, we have to have a compatible system because let's just take this segment of incentive unless we have all these institutions from the paying agency... etc. we will not simply be able to participate in European Union funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we don't have a SAPARD agency, if we haven't accredited it according to their rules, we can't withdraw funds from European funds. So it's all connected. We cannot go with restraint into these things but simply as such apply them, introduce them, and therefore fight for our position in that environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74381	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74382	Mr. Vice President, honorary representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I reported for this individual debate after hearing from certain clubs who called this loan a mind-bending loan and asked whether this money could be used more wisely. I'd like to stand in defense of this loan. I'd like my colleagues from the opposition to support him. Croatia needs definitely three things. Croatia needs more brains, Croatia needs European legislation, namely EU legislation and we need this legislation as soon as possible. And most importantly, we need the swift implementation of European legislation. I'd just like to warn my colleagues that if you followed all the legal proposals marked P.Z.E. Then you saw what those legal proposals look like. They usually look like we have a title, and then we have a list of promises that we can solve everything else through the regulations. The last thirty-nine laws of 440 promised regulations. So obviously we lack knowledge so that we can install that knowledge spotfully into our legislation. I'm just going to set an example that I want to support what I'm saying. I participated in Rijeka seven, eight days ago in that action of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce "Let's Buy Croatian!". I put on a hat, put on a T-shirt, and I sold those products, and I talked to people on the way. They were mostly agricultural products. There was olive oil, there was honey, there was brandy, there was everything and everything. And now I'm asking these valuable people who are, say, on olive oil to label "extra virgin oil," so the highest category. I'm asking you if you've done it and if someone helped you analyze the little oil whether it really belongs in that category. Do you know that according to European Union regulations, it must then have no more than 0.8% of free fatty acids in order to be able to place it in that category. He says we don't know that. So they don't know but it's an extra virginity. The Chamber of Commerce organises it, there are people who are in charge of economic development and agriculture from the city, from the county, from the ministry and these are responsible people for the analysis of this content to help these people, to tell them what standards they need to meet tomorrow so that they can also get out of Croatian borders and place that honey, place that oil, place that product in Europe as well. So, they don't know it, they don't have help and I need help in at least two forms, one in human training, and the other in financial support exactly to eliminate those shortages of these products, to get them to the level of quality that they can really and can go under that name to ours and to the European market. Therefore, I call on all those who do not help these people with advice and financial and in all other ways to really reach these standards, and the European Union criteria, because tomorrow we will only be able to comply with them on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74383	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74384	Here, I'm reporting for this replica to support my colleague, Doric, and he's still saying some things he probably missed or maybe he hasn't been informed of. I am also that knowledge comes and let there be competition with our knowledge because knowledge never enough. I am for the profession, but I am for the money. You see, Croatia currently owes about 27 billion euros. A big debt, but I'm optimistic about it. But I would like to ask myself if 50 billion euros should come to Croatian agriculture because believe me, we know something about it very quickly. When I say very quickly in agriculture doesn't go overnight but in five to ten years it would come back. And now I'm going to tell you on what example. Today in the world it is popular to talk about so-called Healthy food. I'm saying so-called. Because food can't be healthy and unhealthy, food is food. But we're talking about organic farming. You see, colleague Doric, you have now mentioned Europe. I've been around this Europe a dozen times, doing a few documentary films while I was still on TV. You see, Croatia is ecologically clean as a newborn and this Europe that imposes some rules on us, here's an example of the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, in glass production, and we know this from basic school biology, the production is very disputable, now that I don't explain it, there's a residual, so what's left of the chemistry of 126 kilograms per hectare, there's 12 kilograms in the open air. And do you know how many are in Croatia? Three pounds. According to FAO rules, six kilos are allowed. We have, we can produce both honey and extra virginity oil, etc. Of course, the rules of the game need to be introduced inside so that what is going on doesn't happen, but believe me, I know something about it, Europe and organic production are just stories. Croatia is ecologically clean as a newborn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74385	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74386	I don't know how you replicated me in an area I wasn't even talking about. The point is called: the harmonisation of agricultural legislation with the acquis of the European Union. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm staying here and I'm not gonna answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74387	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74388	Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to bring agricultural legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 votes for, 4 abstentions and 4 against the proposed law, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74389	We move on to the following: - Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the so far and the appointment of a new member of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education; the proposal for a Decision was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 112. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Resume session at 3 pm We continue with the proposal for a law supplementing the Telecommunications Act [[The intruders don't understand.]] It's 13:30. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74390	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the so far and the appointment of a new member of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. The proposal for a decision is to dismiss Marijan Bishop, a member of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, and to be named Lidija Bilić Zule as a member of that Committee. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on discharge first. We can vote. The result? With 82 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, a decision on the discharge of this member of the Committee shall be taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Lidija Bilic Zula. Please engage. We can vote. The result? With 80 votes for and 6 abstentions, the proposed decision was taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74391	We'll continue with the afternoon session. We move to the 14th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Telecommunications Act - Proposer of the club of representatives of HSP, first reading of P.Z. No. You received 500 of the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The proposer's representative is all HSP representatives, the esteemed Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, state secretaries and the aim of this amendment and the addition of the Telecommunications Act is to resolve the dispute over the ownership of telecommunications infrastructure in Croatia and its purposes, more specifically regarding ownership of cable sewerage, meaning in the below TDK through which telecommunications cables are being carried out. The TDK consists of a system of underground pipes and wells that serve to draw telecommunications cables into areas of cities outside them. Laying underground cables in the urban area is namely an extremely expensive procedure which is also a matter of traffic security and other problems in the city. Therefore, instead of installing cables directly into the country, these infrastructures are built so that when maintaining existing cables or laying new ones, they do not re-exploit the roads, generate additional costs and disrupt the regular functioning of the city. The liberalisation of the telecommunications market has led to new telecommunications service providers interested in using the city's TDK, some of which lay their own cables in the city's TDK. On the other hand, cities require the use of the existing DTK network so that public areas are not unnecessarily destroyed. Without clear ownership, without proper documentation and without a clearly defined maintenance method, it will not be possible to maintain the DTK network at sufficient quality level, except that the rightful owner does not master DTK, but another right itself is acquired by THT operators whose cables are TDK. No one gets paid a monthly rent with the exception of the City of Split. I don't think the importance of the TDK network for the development of telecommunications in Croatia should be highlighted. So the thing is far-reaching without DTK declaration as a public good available to all telecommunications operators, there's no real end to THT monopoly. Without DTK, it will not be available to all other operators, it will not be able to squeeze its cables and THT will continue to dictate the pace of development of telecommunications, informing Croatia according to its profile. Croatia will be a telecommunication-restricted information colony. And now it means ownership of cables and telecommunications infrastructure. First, the issue of ownership of telecommunications cables from ownership of telecommunications infrastructure through cables needs to be considered. No one argues that telecommunication cables are owned by THT. However, the ownership of THT is not chess and underground channels, i.e. distribution and telecommunications sewerage through which telecommunications cables are drawn. In most of the DTK was built by local community funds, so-called funds. former SIZs in the former state, funds for the construction of the City of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Pula, etc. So, the investor was always a city, and DTK is right and is on public good, on city streets, squares, parks, suburbs, and DTK therefore is and should be public good. In our proposal, we have given meaning to the experience of all, i.e. a larger number of countries in Europe such as Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Austria, Portugal, Finland and Sweden. According to theirs, and according to our proposal, TDK is owned by a local self-government, i.e. a natural or legal person whose real estate is located. So that's what it's all about. According to some estimates, it is worth over 4.5 billion euros and the matter has further complicated the view, because we were also at the Round Tables on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights club, according to which THT is entitled to all of this. They think it's all theirs. And now we saw two weeks ago Croatian television has published parts, which we from the Croatian party club have long been looking for, parts of the contract according to which HT was sold, that first part of Deutsche Telekom. And from that comes this part, I think that article 18 of that contract, where its right to us is unfoundedly probably, for all of you, unfoundedly withdraws THT, because they are considered to be the owners of all of that, which is unacceptable for us, and therefore we ask you to support us to finally resolve this issue. Because we also know what kind of situation to maintain this network and the day-to-day situation is getting worse. Something was done with the last amendment to the law regarding agency jurisdiction as a temporary measure, but I don't think there's any need to go further to resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74393	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Secretary of State Breglec. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Kovacevic, mentioning cables. Col. Kovacevic is called cable, it's probably a mistake because you're a lawyer, so then you have one small mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74395	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Telecommunications submitted by the Club of HSP Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The basic reason behind the rejection of this bill lies in the fact that the issue of ownership rights and other real rights in a specific case of telecommunications infrastructure is the part which, among other things, is a distribution cable, DTK, hence the distribution of telecommunications sewerage cannot be regulated by the Telecommunications Act, but is possibly subject to the regulation of general rules on ownership and other real rights. Following this new, possible new article proposed in this proposal to supplement the law, it is proposed to supplement Article 22. The Telecommunications Act, which reads: "The cable sewerage within the meaning of point 60 of Article 7 of the Law is owned by the state of Croatia or the unit of local self-government or the legal person on which the property is located." The law, the provision proposed, is not acceptable from a legal point of view. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also of the opinion that the adoption of such a formulated provision would significantly undermine legal certainty that must be guaranteed through the application of laws and regulations. Furthermore, Chapter 3 of the current Telecommunications Act, in particular Articles 21 and 22 thereof, are in line with all relevant legal regulations of the European Union, which have been made known in due time and have been notified in writing to the Government by legal advisers engaged under the CARDS Programme 2004. The European Union, on the subject of strengthening the capacity of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, has produced and mentioned the report. On 16 May 2006, the document explicitly pointed out that the provisions of those articles of the law of the applicable Telecommunications Act are in line with the legal property of the European Union and that they should not be changed in order to find a satisfactory solution for the joint use of distribution telecommunications sewerage or perhaps better said infrastructure. Since this bill has been dated since the 6th month of this year, and in the meantime it has been a while, allow me to supplement this essence that stems from the Croatian Government's obvious with a few more facts. It is known, meanwhile, that further activities have been carried out in the last few months to determine the right of ownership and, specifically, the Government has adopted an initiative on the involvement of an expert legal adviser who would and who has carried out expert expertise on ownership of the DTK. The job is done online, I believe that the Croatian public will be informed about it soon. In an attempt of course to address the issue of ownership of DTK in the Republic of Croatia in a comprehensive and quick way. I must point out that it is also important to address two basic concepts – the issue of ownership from the issue of governance. In the case of ownership, the Government has shown that I have previously stated, and that it is very important, and most importantly, at this time in an appropriate manner, in an efficient manner, to define the issue of governance, which is through the Law on Telecommunications through Article 22, in particular through paragraph 5 of that article, to be properly resolved, and he says that, in the case where the owner of the telecommunications infrastructure is not established, this can be very easily established through the insight into the grant books in each court, in each grant, the board of the Agency may, at the request of the concessions of broadcasting services or operators, if there are appropriate technical conditions to adopt a temporary solution to the right of ownership which is completely replacing the contract in the previous paragraphs, therefore the use can be achieved by means, primarily through the contract, but in the case of doubt situations where the owner is not established or where the property is doubtful or if the contract is not reached, the Agency can always be arbitration. Also in the meantime, the agency developed and conducted a public debate on DTK governance and ownership. This public debate was concluded a month and a half ago, the agency's views are well known, that it is also institutionally willing to take full responsibility given to it by law and in an appropriate manner and in such a manner as it requires the law to manage in this and arbitration in these doubtful cases. In this respect, it was also established within the Agency for Telecommunications Infrastructure Services as a special, as an strengthening in the administrative sense, so instruments for resolving the subject-matter of the requirements, which, for which the law provides, are also provided. It is also known that the agency has in the meantime carried out a number of constructive talks in cities where there has been any questionable interpretation either of the requirements of one party or of the other party over ownership and that, as well as the basis of these experiences, especially those where this has been positively resolved, as for example... Split will also apply solutions in its further work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be pointed out in the end that, of course, the Agency cannot make a decision unless it is required by one, in accordance with Article 22. The Telecommunications Act needs to seek availability in telecommunications infrastructures whether it is some kind of pillar that serves base stations whether it is DTK, the agency will establish on the basis of this request whether there are technical opportunities, legal opportunities and issue a solution that will replace the contract. Here, in terms of the law, we consider an acceptable solution, the solution which is currently the most important issue, which is the question of the development of the telecommunications and accessibility of the DTK as a prerequisite for this development, which we consider to be the most important thing at the moment. Certainly, I must finally stress that this law in its background actually has one dare I say noble intent, which is to allow units of local self-government ownership over DTK. At no time was the Government of the Republic of Croatia shown that such an attitude was not acceptable but in the implementation of this intention we should and we should also give this attitude to explain, take the path that Croatian legislation foresees, and not to question such requirements legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74397	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74398	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As stated, the objective of this amendment and the addition of the Telecommunications Act is to resolve the dispute over ownership of telecommunications infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. And I would say it's very simple about an important initiative, a very ambitious goal, but solving all the problems that we're dealing with right now about a solution to the property dispute with telecommunications infrastructure will require further efforts and a little more time than we think this moment is. Certainly without clear ownership, without proper documentation it will not be possible to maintain what is particularly important at a sufficiently high-quality level the full functionality of the distribution and telecommunications infrastructure. I think that expression is much more adequate than a distribution-telecom sewer. Maintenance, full functionality, full availability at this time are priorities although the determination of ownership is indeed an important part of the resolution of all the problems we face. The issue of ownership of telecommunications infrastructure should be seen among other things and in the context of the conversion process carried out in the Republic of Croatia in the last 15 years. In 1990, the social property of the telecommunications network was transformed into state property, then in 1991, state ownership of the telecommunications network was converted into ownership of the public company HPT. On 1 January 1998, telecommunications infrastructure as ownership of HPT became part of the role with which the Republic of Croatia participates in the core capital of HPT, which also established the company. In principle, the process of transforming social property into a company, however, in the process of converting legislators failed to determine what was important, and it is happening with, and it is related to the property rights of distribution and telecommunications infrastructure on social public land which was also passing the conversion process. The later Act on the separation of HPT to HPT and HT also did not resolve the issue, and we inherited a particular situation that caused conflicts because the liberalised market is what we have decided to do and it requires equal rights regarding availability to telecommunications infrastructure. Given the resulting situation, the generated problems that have been escalating lately have even taken on the scales that are unacceptable to the last amendments to the law have given power to the Croatian Telecommunications Agency to address disputed situations related to the common use of telecommunication infrastructure. As from 1 October following the public debate, the Agency should first see the results of the Agency's efforts and request a report on the real statute, and only then, if legislative mechanisms need to be addressed, these or similar issues, based on analysis and proposals, in particular professional services and competent authorities, ministries, agencies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Certainly what is highlighted and I want to emphasise also in the view of the HDZ Club, the law must enable distribution and telecommunications infrastructure to be available to all regardless of whose ownership it is, which is ultimately in line with European guidelines. Given the importance of this issue for the economy and society as a whole, it is necessary to take a comprehensive look at all aspects of ownership and maintenance of distribution and telecommunications infrastructure. It's a job that's just coming. For this reason, the Government has hired a legal adviser, a prominent international consultant who, in cooperation with all relevant bodies, will, above all, give an expert legal opinion to the Croatian Telecommunications Agency on the resolution of this problem. Prior to that, the HDZ Club will not be able to accept the proposal for a Law supplementing the Telecommunications Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74399	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed secretary of state. The liberalisation of the telecommunications market has led to new telecommunications operators, telecommunications service providers interested in using the city's distribution TK sewerage, some of which lay their own cables in the city's distribution-TK sewerage. On the other hand, cities require the use of existing distribution-TK sewers so that public areas are not unnecessarily dug up once more. Without clear ownership and without appropriate documentation and without the infrastructure catastra and without a clearly defined maintenance method, it will not be possible to maintain the distribution TK sewerage at sufficient quality level. For the purpose of telecommunications, the distribution TK sewerage is regulated by the Telecommunications Act of 7 in point 60. defines cable sewerage as part of telecommunications infrastructure, so that at point 60. telecommunications infrastructure consists of a basic component of a telecommunications network such as land and buildings for telecommunications equipment accommodation, cable sewerage, antenna pillars and other buildings for the provision of telecommunications services and activities. The distribution-TK sewerage is also covered by Article 22. A law laying down the joint use of built telecommunications infrastructure by giving special powers to the Croatian Telecommunications Agency by encouraging the joint use of infrastructure in particular for the purpose of protecting health, people, environmental protection and the need for appropriate spatial arrangements. The same Article 22 also provides that telecommunications or cable operators have the right if there are technical conditions to use built telecommunications infrastructure owned by other legal and natural persons, with the compensation of actual costs under the contract concluded. Here, first of all, the issue of ownership of telecommunications cables from ownership of telecommunications infrastructure through which cables pass or on which cables are located because when we talk about cable sewerage, then we talk about underground infrastructure, and when we talk about the ground floor, then it's cables on columns or wireless infrastructure, right? No one argues that telecommunication cables are owned by THT, but the possession of THT is of course not shahts, or underground channels, or distribution-telephone sewerage through which these same telecommunications cables have been withdrawn. In the large part of the distribution TK, the sewerage was built by the funds of the local community which I am also a witness where I worked on several occasions precisely where the local self-government unit was the investor of such TK sewers, which was then consensually transferred to the use of THT, right? So, we have to say that's exactly why the investor is either a city or a municipality and that's why it's public good. Although Croatia's telecommunications agency requested data from operators on accurate accommodation and the time duration of use of the distribution TK sewerage so far has no progress in solving this problem. The establishment of the Telecommunications Agency as well as the Competition Protection Agency has proved to be a positive shift in the liberalisation of the market in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that telecommunications is exactly what is expected of us and of the users of telecommunications services. By amending and supplementing the Telecommunications and Sublegal Acts, the Agency has contributed to liberalisation especially in the area of the use of access to local loops, simplified access to the telecommunications market and the use of new alternative access technologies, strengthening competition in order to prevent the abuse of a superior position, more effective protection of telecommunications users and creating conditions for the start of work of digital television transmission. As you know, the legal regulation was such that in cable sewers along with TK tubes that were plastic profiles of 50 cm, they must set up another such tube through which one day, tomorrow, a distribution television, satellite program would be going through. Market liberalisation implies creating equal and transparent conditions for new operators and service providers for equal market access, opening up the option for the user to choose an operator according to his wishes, taking into account ensuring good quality of telecommunications services at an acceptable price. I am sure that the purpose of this resolution and this way of solving the problem of the distribution TK of sewers is not that cities can obtain new income from the rental of the distribution TK of sewers but rather that all access to DTK is ensured under reasonable conditions. Very high compensation for the use of distribution TK sewers can also contribute only to the monopoly or in this case which we are talking about today to THT which will only be able to withstand but thus destroy competition and achieve the opposite effect. The company which owns and manages the distribution TK must not be directly interested in the use of DTK and should not be engaged in telecommunications services because it would have a significant market impact by searching all its interests by preventing others from using DTK canalisation under cover of technical inability. If we now refer to this proposal sent to the HSP Club, we see that the proposal adds new items: cable sewerage within the meaning of point 60 of Article 7 is owned by the state of Croatia or the unit of local self-government or by a legal person whose real estate is located. Concessors, broadcasting services and operators have the right to use cable sewerage evenly at the expense of actual costs on the basis of a contract concluded. The owners of cable sewerage must respect the principles of non-discrimination, etc. Therefore, when renting water, operators must respect the principles of non-discrimination of transparency and objectivity and the cost of compensation orientation. If the Croatian Telecommunications Agency assesses that the rental is not in line with these principles, it does not allow competition and that it does not comply with other provisions of this law or with the international regulations adopted in the case of example. where the operator determines the excessive prices or determines the prices in a way that restricts competition, it will decide to fix the operator to change his offer. Therefore, the Agency can control the price of the rental of telecommunications lines so that it can logically control the price of renting a distribution TK of sewerage through which these waters pass and influence the decision of the local self-government or the owner of the distribution TK sewerage on the level of compensation. Finally, I want to believe that the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, together with the Council of Telecommunications Consumers, will have the skills and the strength to do so, underlining enough strength that on the Croatian telecommunications market, there will be no monopoly and that users will be in a position to pay telecommunications services at real prices for good quality and what is also important without a flat-rate subscription as is common in the countries of the European Union that are so keen to do so. The IDS Club will support in its first reading this bill, which will hopefully resolve the ownership, use and management of the distribution TK of the sewerage and everything that is not in line with any other legislative proposals or legislation which is in force, I suggest that the Government or the Ministry agree with the clubs and that in the second reading, such a law be laid down which I say finally resolves the ownership, use and management of the distribution TK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74401	In the name of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74402	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, we at our Croatian Peasant Party Club discussed this bill and I will say at first that we support it because we hope that possibly held dilemmas that occurred during this debate could improve in the second reading this according to us quite correct bill. What's now about the explanation that's important is that really this is an example of how, in principle, sometimes the solutions that are unfortunately wrong at first might not think so, show guilt only after 15 years or even more. Here is the obvious presence or rather unquestionable principle of ownership. But today, when we are discussing this property, it is really like my predecessor used to say, a large number of municipalities and cities, then municipalities at the end or through local communities or whatever else he was involved in building telecommunications infrastructure, totaling himself. In the processes behind it, of course, it became that I would say the ownership of HPT, but apparently now that we're discussing this problem, then we see that both ownership and management are quite connected. A telecommunications agency that certainly made quite a positive move, and I am convinced that its infrastructure service, which was formed, will also do its job. First of all, the business of controllers in the overall process. However, if there were no confusion or no litigation, we still think that this bill would really benefit. He certainly can't hurt. The hand now aside and what was a public debate on ownership and governance and which certainly showed one good way and a model of how such problems should be solved and solved, but I would not like this noble proposal, as it was said, to remain only on this noble but to indeed be operationalized. Regarding all this together, I would not now enter into the essence of existing infrastructure but I would say that we can even discuss what the future will be in view of the processes of digitisation and wireless, wireless mobile radios, but in any case it would be good to have this area both distributed and telecommunications, I must say, I think that fellow Cosic explained it nicely, and it should certainly be clarified while it is time. So we will support this bill in front of the HSS Club. We suggest that he goes into another reading and that if he had to do a little bit of work, but in any case he would just put in more order in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74403	Thank you. The word has been respected by Vice-President of the House Mr. Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74404	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let's start by assuming he really owns HT distribution and telecommunications infrastructure or Deutsche Telecom now that bought HT. If that were the case, it would have happened in Croatia if one legal person had established a monopoly. And according to our constitution, monopolies are forbidden. For this reason, we would need to pass a special law that would prevent monopoly behaviour. That's number one. Number two, according to the Constitution, the law also states that it is possible to limit or confiscate ownership in the interest of the Republic of Croatia under market value compensation, Article 50. And 52 says that land among other things is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, again, if it were to be all this interpretation that it is the owner as if, that the HT is the owner as some claim we would have to pass or a special law on the restriction of entrepreneurial and ownership freedom with the compensation of market values and to establish that this is actually good of interest for the Republic of Croatia must be put into operation by all. That's the first thing I'd like to say about this problem. Second, what you should say. The question should be asked on the basis of an actual historical analysis and related to the previous political and legal system and the regime on the one hand about the production of telecommunications and telecommunications infrastructures on the one hand, and on the other hand regarding the historical analysis of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia over the past 15 years. If we look at this aspect, then you'll come up with a whole series of data that this infrastructure was actually created by investing units of local self-government and citizens themselves through self-sufficientities in certain environments, even through the so-called the payment of connections related to that infrastructure. It could hardly be concluded from such a historical analysis that the original right of ownership in the original way in this segment after the debate of social property belongs to telecommunications or Croatian mail and telecommunications at the time. Another thing to say, privatizing and pretending,... Not by privatising but by turning this company from social to public enterprises, the state has kept this part of the infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the infrastructure is located on land and in land that was actually transformed by the Law on Local Self-Government in 1992. Because it is said there: All properties and movables that are not of course privatised yet in conversion and privatisation and so on, and are located in the area of local self-government units, for example local self-government. So there's no doubt that it's a very interesting segment that inside itself by nature things actually contain so-called. the concept of shared ownership. In my opinion, there is no doubt that the land across, through which the channel passes in the area of local self-government units belongs to local self-government units. And thus the channel of them. Second, which is also undeniable, the very infrastructure through which cables go through depending on who built it, usually belongs to local self-government units and can hardly be interpreted in a different way. But regardless of who belongs in the ownership and legal sense, no one can have a monopoly on excluding another possible user who wants to provide telecommunications services to citizens on equal terms. And the third thing, the cables themselves are of course owned by those who have placed them, i.e. the Croatian Post Office and now Telecommunications and before Croatian Post Offices. So, as a matter of fact, the question of the government's argument arises why does this law refuse? That it should be settled by some other law. No, this is not a matter of ownership and real rights. Because the Law on Property and Real Rights gives enough ground to say it belongs to the units of local self-government. What can only be discussed is whether we will pass a special law restricting ownership and entrepreneurial freedoms not only of the HT, that we understand each other, but also of the municipalities and our cities through which the land is going through, and that it is then possibly fully resolved either by amending and supplementing this law in which the issues of ownership and governance of this value will actually be resolved in the interests of all of them. I am very inclined to accept, in fact, that, with this one amendment and the addition of this law, it is resolved for the simple reason that a similar solution is present in the practice of European legislation by the members of the European Union, that this law is actually treated as a lex specialis that regulates this issue. And from that segment, I am actually grateful to my colleagues that this initiative has been referred to the parliamentary procedure, for the simple reason. If we remember this spring we also had a debate in the Parliament on this issue, but then it was said that the possibility of a legislative solution would be considered. However, no initiative has come except for this one now given by the HSP Representatives' Club. That's why I will personally support this bill to go to another reading. I have no objection that, on the proposal of the ruling majority, a special conclusion under which the motioner is obliged to actually obtain information concerning the advice of legal experts, an excuse, a legal expert giving advice to the Government and the position of the Government to keep in mind before the final draft of the law is resolved. And only here do I have to point out an important question. Somehow, the debates that are being tried to channel about it are actually bought and sold and in a productive way of converting, privatizing telecommunications acquired property and it's angro and cable and infrastructure and land itself are practically difficult to interpret and very, very difficult to implement in the work, for a simple reason, because it's a question where our cities are actually going to put very, very serious remarks and rebel because it's actually about their space that they're editing. So, let me make this simple. We even have to say, that's where the colleagues listed how it is in certain countries, but they stated what the situation in Germany is where the cities, so the units of local self-government are rebelling with the right to... In fact, they take advantage of their land and make use of the land, or infrastructure that passes through their land compared to Deutsche Telekom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Deutsche Telekom is actually very difficult to resist, and he's going to have to let it go. He'll have to let it go regardless of what he's trying to do. One thing happened when Deutsche Telekom was a state-owned company. But Deutsche Telekom is also a privatized company in Germany. He is no longer in Germany's majority ownership, and there will be change in Germany as well. We must not allow ourselves, given the tradition and otherwise established ownership relations that the units of local self-government on that segment or historical analysis have the right to, having the right to own that segment to lose and, ultimately, after transformations from all kinds of relations in Germany itself, actually come into a situation that German Telekom is the owner, majority owner or future majority owner of Telekom in our country in a more favourable position than in the home country in which it is established... For all these reasons, I propose, and I call on all my colleagues to support, regardless of the government's position, this initiative in the first reading, but to support this initiative in the first reading, and until the second reading, we ask that the applicants, together with the Government, be involved in preparing the final draft of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, have him prepare him if the government needs to. It is important to resolve this issue, not delay this issue of resolution, nor rely on what happens if legal security is violated. In fact, the question arises whether the behaviour of HT did not violate legal certainty in Croatia. I think the other way around, that by practice of acting like welding shahts and not listing everything that's going on in our cities, is actually a breach of legal certainty. And not only legal certainty, but explicit testimony is the monopoly of behaviour that excludes the third specific opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And in this respect, I believe that our Telecommunications Agency, as well as the Resolute Ministry, needed urgent inspection measures to be taken and to give a solution to the ban on such behaviour of telecommunications in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74405	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was supposed to have my debate on behalf of the club, but I was on the board, so all of what I was gonna say down there is what I'm gonna say right now. In any case, the Croatian People's Party supports this HSP proposal and we believe that this is the part that this DTK story means distribution and telecommunications sewerage, that it is part of the national sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and that in any case its national sovereignty, which is reflected through the DTK in this case, is that we should preserve it. I used to work in, like, a long time ago in HT, and that wasn't what it was called, though, not even now. Then it was OOUR PTT traffic and I was working in that OOUR PTT traffic and I remember very well how we built all the infrastructure that was telecommunications infrastructure, and that was still the time when my installers for each connection had secured somewhere lamb. Because the connections weren't there and people were just making contracts the way that CTU was looking for them. And most of it, from headquarters, buildings, sewers, cables, transmission systems, all of it was built by its citizens, either through the SIZs, or via the price of the connection, all of it was built on the burden of the citizens. At one point, we decided that, me and today, I don't know why we should sell it to someone, turn ours into theirs. And when we decided to sell it, we didn't, or we did, I don't know, it's not yet defined, we decided what we sold. I'm saying we haven't sold virtually any connection or anything because I'm even saying we haven't sold any transmission systems, but just like that, it went the way it did. But this part that's left, which is this DTK, in any case, we have to protect, we can't think of it as part of a contract that's signed with Deutsche Telekom and that's theirs. Because there are three problems about DTK. The two are directly related to DTK, which is the land above the sewerage itself, which means the right of service, the land where that sewerage passes. The second question is the sewers themselves, and only the third is the cable that passes through that sewer. The right of service must in any case be secured by cities, local units. So they must have the right to charge service rights, because in that area where the sewers have passed, normally, that land is occupied for other things, for sewage, gas, or I don't know what else. So, in any case, the right of service should be charged, although it has not been touched here by this law in order to say it in some parts of the area, but this second part of the ownership of the sewerage that is being solved here should in any case be liked by the units of local self-government and they should actually allow for competition rights to prevail, that various service providers pass through these pipes, not only one, and that it locks and unlocks and charges some right to pull cables and portable other optical ones, any of these other cables, and I think it's a good thing that the HSP started with this and the HNS club will in any case support their attempt, and it will also be our attempt if this goes through in the first reading and enters the second reading. It will also be our attempt to preserve Croatia's national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74407	Are you correcting an incorrect quote or replica? ... Replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Kapraljevic precisely said that all telecommunications, all telecommunications infrastructure was built by citizens, in general by those who had a telephone connection and those who did not. However, in the 1980s, I personally signed a contract with the then PTT for 1,500 DEM for the number and connection of the phone, and nevertheless participated in setting up then pillars on which the cable was then placed and building ground on the nearest pillar. Thus, with all the expensive participation of all the citizens, so what is ours is, we have also had here individually to say the property and payment of those 1,500 DEM with participation in the work. So it's quite true what you said and I believe that this particular part of the contract would have to be an integral part of today's contract to all of us who were involved and should have co-ownership in THT.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74409	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74410	Thank you, colleagues. I'd simplify that. I know a lot of villages that set up their own telephone poles, who pulled their own tractor cables onto those columns and did everything themselves to get HT to come and install only one recession and paid for all the connection. So that's a fact and that's the truth. But this is only about the sewer part. If you look at it like you say, everything in this Croatia we've done together, the state has taken it from us and given it to some. I think we understand each other. But here we paid in particular, but many other things we paid in particular, so the state stole it from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74411	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74412	Dear colleagues and colleagues. As far as this bill of law is concerned, I was asked to discuss the government's representatives of course. Given the fact that he pointed out that our proposal is noble, however, what is a key sentence is that he argued that our proposal calls into question legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia. Since we, we consider ourselves to be a serious party, in no case would we agree or make proposals at least unconsciously, which would at least question legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia because we hold that it would not be appropriate in the Croatian Parliament. When we discussed and agreed to go with this bill, our main intention was to strengthen legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia. Through the debates of colleagues and by following the media and in everyday life in the places where we live, each of us without some big, big thinking can be reminded of a situation where we can find arguments that there is no legal certainty on this issue at this point. We are all in local self-government bodies, we are dealing with contacts with voters and rarely who have not had the opportunity to see what it looks like in practice, and in practice it looks like what some colleagues have already mentioned, chess locators, conflicts and debates between workers, representatives of local self-government and THT who at the moment behaves as a monopoly on DTK and behaves as a monopoliest and has the support of the Croatian state and Croatian justice. The fact that this proposal calls into question legal certainty cannot be interpreted on my part as different from that of the Government representative having a contract and drawing his claim from the contract for the sale of HT between the Republic of Croatia and Deute Telekom. Unfortunately, in this Croatian Parliament over the past 10 years, at least 20 times on various topics we have discussed on telecommunications and on the eternal issue we have not received an answer today, and I doubt that things are going to happen, and that is how it is possible for Croatian representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and I am a representative, I cannot see the contract for the privatisation of HT, the contract that the Croatian state sold to HT Deute Telekom. What are the reasons for not taking the Rules of Procedure so that I do not quote it, this Rules of Procedure which should be one of the acts that should be respected in this Croatian country, it gives us the right to have access to all the information we need to make and initiative and to our representation work. Unfortunately, this clearly does not concern the issue of information on the HT privatisation contract. Because I guess the government official here sees the arguments for his claim that our proposal raises legal certainty, because the only possible explanation is that the contract says that we sold DTK to Deute Telekom. So can we expect as advocates that, once from some dark bank, this famous contract appears in the light of day and that we can read it and that we have basic concrete information on the basis of which we could discuss, give initiatives and bill proposals, or we will remain in this situation, and I am assessing it as the protection of the HT monopoly. We would, because as representatives and as a party and we act, we should show the interests of the citizens here and we, through our proposal, show. It is, of course, the interest of local self-government, cities, municipalities and counties. However, this is the interest of all our citizens, and it is primarily the interest that as far as possible in the legal frameworks of the monopoly, to act market-based and that in the extreme sequential interest of citizens is cheaper telecommunications which, as we know all these years in the Republic of Croatia, are more expensive than in countries from which various operators have come to us and from here at high prices are charging us with capital. And we tolerate it, and unfortunately, we still have a situation to protect the monopoly. The question arises which are the reasons for protecting the monopoly and not protecting the interests of the citizens, and should primarily protect the interests of the citizens through the activities of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the Croatian Government. So I'm asking a concrete question to the government's representative. Is it possible for a representative in the Croatian Parliament to gain insight into the contract for the sale of HT? Is that possible or not possible? The fact that it's a business secret, it's just absurd, I don't accept such an explanation in advance. Where the contract is located and where it can be seen so that we can discuss here properly and give a concrete answer to the question that we, with our proposal, question legal uncertainty, and now we have legal uncertainty. Or we may have legal certainty that they have the right to do so, to do what they do to continue to have a monopoly and to earn extraprofits on the back of Croatian citizens. It's just inadmissible. The more time goes on, the more trouble comes on. We perform works, street reconstructions, and eventually we have to wait 15, 20 days for the monopolies to have mercy and to make or allow us to do our part of the work. And that's how they increase the cost again to whom? Croatian citizens. As long as the situation in Croatia will last for a monopoly to behave as a state in the country and have full protection regardless of the various reasons, full protection of the Croatian state and Croatian government. How long is this gonna take? Can we talk here in a way to go see what's in the interest of Croatian citizens? I am convinced that our proposal is in the interest of Croatian citizens. And that's why I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues to finally put an end to that kind of behavior once and for us to start acting the way we're supposed to. This is not a political proposal, nor is it politicised, nor do we want it to be politicized, but it has appeared in life practice through the behaviour of the government in local self-government. We have a problem we can solve. We propose a quality legal solution, it can probably be done in a second reading, we accept it. But we cannot accept any assessment that we, with our proposal, question the legal security of Croatian, Croatian legal systems. In any case, it was neither our intention nor the content of this proposal. And finally, I repeat, is it possible for a representative of the Government to have a Croatian representative, a representative of the Croatian Parliament who was elected once by the citizens, given the possibility of being provided by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and allegedly guaranteed to see with their eyes the contract to sell HT to Deutsche Telekom. Well, then we have arguments and we really want to make sure this threatens legal certainty or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74413	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of the Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Jukic said their club's intention was to strengthen legal certainty on this issue. Yes, I agree with that because this proposal will resolve ownership, use and management of the distribution TK sewerage. But so will fellow Yukic, the possibility of a monopoly, which is also our constitutional obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74415	Thank you. I'm closing up. Here you are, on behalf of the Proposer. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Breglec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I owe a few answers to the directly asked questions. First of all, I would like to say that, on the subject of famous contracts, I would like to update or provide information that is certainly known to the public, given that a press conference has been held on this subject on two occasions. In view of the character of the contracts marked by the business secret, the Ministry has drawn up the summary of the privatisation contract from 1999 and 2001, they are published on their websites and today these summarys, which, in every important fact, are of course credible and faithfully depicting the spirit of what is in the contracts, are available at this very moment. So, on the one hand, we felt that, or we felt that such an approach to the best possible gives an answer to exactly this kind of requirements that were not, that came from different sides, and that in their essence they satisfactorily give insight into the essence of these contracts. I cannot answer you directly to the question of whether parliamentary representatives can obtain possession in any way of the document, I suppose that in any case such a way through the Rules of Procedure and other acts can be realised, if not completely, then in a certain restrictive form and certainly if such an initiative appears that the Government will give the answer in due time, or perhaps even fully satisfy the request. I cannot accept on behalf of the government the classification that the government supports the monopoly, that the monopoly has full protection of the government as was said in the same debate, which is very easy to deny. Namely, they are known achievements of the last two and a half years on the liberalisation of the telecommunications market on which I must stress it here is especially in the area of mobile telecommunications not only has there been no monopoly but it has been broken in a way beyond all expectations, in the last year the penetration has practically increased from 61% as much as it was two years ago to about 95%, which we now have dropped for, in half of the previous ones, and also in the field of fixed telecommunications I will remind you that 17 new operators with permission have been issued, so that it is organized and functioning very efficiently Croatian Telecommunications Agency, that five of these 17 operators have received and passed technical examinations and started operationally with work, that we cannot speak of any monopoly at this point in fixed and ultimately not in mobile telecommunications, that five of these 17 operators have been able to achieve the necessary results of the same kind of safety and safety that we are able to enable to achieve the necessary and to achieve the necessary results. I am convinced that this will continue, of course, that the process of accessing the fixed network, the separation, the detour of local loops everywhere in the world and so in Croatia is a complex process in which of course... or the former monopolies have a number of opportunities, under the pretext of technical or other reasons, to make it impossible to disable the existing position, i.e. to disable access to competition, but these are processes that have passed by all states, Croatia is, at this time, over 8% of users of once million fixed connections possess alternative operators and we believe that in a year of liberalisation in the field of fixed telecommunications, fixed telecommunications services one exceptional success, and that the functioning of Croatia's telecommunications agency and decisive measures and solutions that it brings and brings daily this process to be continued and, of course, if we all wish and speeded up to have a sharp market match in fixed telecommunications as we have in the area of mobiles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74417	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74418	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first I have to say... to this speech by the final representative of the Government, it seems to me like a debate club that can be talked about something that is not said, and you see now you are in the minority, we have now held a debate and all the representatives from all the clubs have supported our legal proposal and are talking precisely about that the main issue is that it is finally legally resolved this situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The matter is clear, indisputable and you are in the minority, and then here you tell us that we question legal security. So who questions legal certainty if we are representatives of the people here, we all agree that the issue of ownership is clear, that it is the property of municipalities and cities, so who brings legal certainty into question? Is the current situation sustainable? She's not sustainable? Then who cares about legal certainty? Anyway, we're all here as representatives as well as the HSP club who tabled the proposal. We want to make order in this area, and that would be logical if the government said it agreed to introduce order in this area. We all know personally who before the war the phone introduced that we were giving away a thousand and a half marks, somewhere more. In Slovenia, they decided to have shares of people that way, which is fine. This is where THT lays the right of ownership. What right of ownership is it? And if you're saying so means you don't want to support this proposal, you go to them, you don't go to the hands of Croatian citizens, you don't go to the hand of law enforcement, and you don't go to the hand of the will and justice shown here, and you still tolerate monopoly, and you declare that you are against it. So let's not kid ourselves, the thing is clear, the thing is undeniable, just remember in the villages what happened that people for when the phone was introduced and for the centrals were giving their homes, whether it was a firehouse or a cooperative home, and then that part was prescribed to themselves by the mail, or now it's on THT. So let's not fool anyone here, the thing is simple and don't tell us how to do it. When you tell me, or at HSP and all of us MPs, if that's what you claim to be in government, it would eventually be possible, be careful to say it could be solved by general rules on ownership and other real rights. So have you heard of the term leg specialis? Now, this is a alloy specialis regulation. Look, now that you've heard, I'm telling you that this is a alloy specialis regulation. It's a alloy specialis regulation. We can also have a special law, I agree that Mr Arlovic said where we will have all these situations of doubt that do not only appear in this area but also other areas regulated, but that this will be resolved by general regulations then whoever wrote this position does not know what is being dealt with by general rules on ownership and other real rights to become fundamental principles and everything else, and the situation is being discussed by contracts and other variants. Therefore, it seems clear to all of us that order should be taken except here by the Secretary of State and I hope that the Government will consciously and appeal to all of us here present and most of us and the opposition to support this in our first reading, and in the second reading we can all together and the Government and all representatives of the clubs. This is not a political issue for us, this is the introduction of order, and we know the situation in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74419	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74420	Proposal for a law supplementing the Telecommunications Act. The proposed law is the Club of HSP Representatives. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Telecommunications proposed by the Club of HSP Representatives is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please vote. The result? With 67 votes for, 3 abstentions and 21 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74421	We move to the next - - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Supplements to Children – Proposer zastavnik Dragutin Lesar, first reading P.Z. No. 508 You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant wish to submit an additional proposal? The Honorable Representative Lesar is not in the hall. The committee's rapporteurs. A representative of the government. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club does not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by MP Dragutin Lesar, proposing an amendment to Article 10(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Supplements to Children's "The People's News" No. 94, 2001. I'd like to get some information before I explain this point of view. According to demographic projections, as well as data from the United Nations experts can be expected to live in Croatia in 2015 4 million 39 thousand 146, which for 398 thousand 314 is less population than today, which is so close to the future of 2015. So this is really an extremely worrying piece of information. Another demographic movement should also be highlighted, an increased proportion of the ageing population, which is already over 16% and lists us as older peoples and reduces the share of born and working. All this is causing here and directly endangers one vital, working, economic potential of the state and society. Fortunately, the responsible government, and this one is and has so far taken a number of measures that have stopped the negative trend, so I would ask you to listen carefully to this data. The number of children born alive was 45 thousand 179 in 1999. Let's see what's been going on since 2000. 2000. 43 thousand 746, so we move on, in 2001, 40 thousand 993, then in 2003 we had 39 thousand 668 numbers of living births and a difference of '99. means until 2003. 15 thousand 511 less lively children. Here we can see from this data what one policy can do to legal changes but also to other activities by creating one atmosphere that the family is not so important and by creating each other's values in society. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity within its regular activities and, following and implementing the Law on Child Supplement on the basis of professional assessments, but also considering and considering citizens, has also seen more disputed points in the Law on Child Supplements, including this controversial Article 10(1), which amends and foresees them. Also in the government's statement, several working options and financial calculations of a new setting of allowances for children have been developed as one measure of support in the family where the ambiguities detected have been removed, thus amending the disputed provision proposed in this legislative proposal. In the parliamentary procedure, I think it will be on the agenda tomorrow, and the National Population Policy proposal, which in all its comprehensive and comprehensive way, touches all aspects of support and empowerment of a family where attention is also paid to child support as one of the measures helping natural growth and supporting families in raising children. Considering all that in preparation means the full amendments to the Law of Supplement for children of the Croatian Democratic Community club cannot accept the proposed partial solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74423	Thank you. For the club HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74424	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to tell Mr. Lesar's proposal first. He begged, I actually asked on his behalf to take this point off the agenda because he couldn't possibly be here today, but it didn't happen, so here we are talking about it. Namely, all the arguments that the colleague had previously made about the care for population policy, about the depopulation of Croatia, about the reduced number of children, all of this stood together. All that stuff is true. And this bill is trying to help those who stayed. What exactly is this about? It is the fact that under the applicable rules children's allowance is obtained by children who go to primary school up to 15 years of age. Which, in the normal situation, is perfectly fine. At 6, 7 years of age, he goes to school, 8 classes, 14-15 years of age, finishes primary school, goes to high school, and then the other regulations apply to him. What if the kid's sick before he goes to school, so he doesn't start at 7 but at 8? What if it's been sick for a year and it's lost a year because of a disease or some other reason, so it's in 7th grade at 15 and no longer has the right to a child's allowance, wrong or due? So when we're trying to help the children, when we're setting up a ministry that's called, when we're so good and so generous that we're making up strategies about it, let's take a little care of the living kids. While those children to whom this injustice took place await the development of the strategy, they will be close to retirement. As these children await the making and application of the law, their grandchildren will need such laws, the pace we are going to take. It would be good for the government to admit once, and this time admits it nominally in the text of the argument that it is actually a failure, because a similar failure did not occur in the regulations concerning secondary education of children. There children can be sick for a year and have a year longer then, say, a child's allowance. So the government admits that there's been a failure, but now that someone from the opposition has suggested that this slip be corrected, there's no way! It would be fair, human and polite to admit a mistake and say, in all the regulations we have made, which we have proposed, which we have changed, which we have complemented, we have stolen, let's correct it, we will reject the proposal of our fellow Lesar, and we will immediately give the Government's proposal to correct this error, because this is not about something that can be corrected in a year's time of injustice. In a year, those kids will be out of the system. They will be wronged in a year or two, not guilty or in debt, and I don't know that no one's heart will hurt at all. Obviously, then, it's not the essence of what it says. It's not about any money, it's not about a lot of cases. This could probably be counted in Croatia in hundreds, so now multiply it by some average children's allowance, these are negligible funds. But obviously it doesn't matter. It's important who noticed the government's mistake. And the government as it used to be is never wrong. The government is always right, even when it corrects its mistake. I'd really like to appeal to the government to try to do it quickly this time if they won't accept this proposal already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74425	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74426	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's actually hard to add to what my colleague said earlier as a key argument. It doesn't matter which government, which ministry made a mistake. The mistake was made. We really have something that's missed in here that I don't know when, I don't know what procedure, and there's no reason to correct it, so no one's initiative for that correction came from. This is really about something that's a failure, and it doesn't apply to too many children. We may have brought in my mandate changes and additions and a new Children's Compensation Act where we extended the right to a child's allowance to all children and those unemployed parents and so on. It's gone, it's just a fail-safe so it can happen that a child who turns 15 is still going to elementary school for some reason. It got sick, lost a year and so on. We don't do anything spectacular here but help those kids stay out of the children's allowance system, and the older ones have it. So the SDP Club supports the proposal for this amendment. You let go of the strategy on the most intelligent policy, you let go of the family strategy. Let's fix what can be fixed. As far as I know, this bill has been in the process for almost a year. Now it's his turn. If we had done so, perhaps a whole generation, it is difficult to assess here whether it is 1500 or 900 how many colleagues Lesar assumes children, deprived of one right which is the right that all children are fortunately in Croatia, I would still say by the failure that we have passed the laws, which we have overlooked. So it is at the shortest difficult to accept the argument that this will be dealt with systematically by the government in the new law. There's no reason. We're now in the seventh month of our colleague and colleague passed the law that we passed last session was it? Which we changed yesterday at this session. Well, there's no reason, nor will anyone's crown fall from their heads if we accept this nor will the fact that one opposition advocate suggests diminish the value of this repair we're proposing in this way. So the SDP Club supports the amendment proposal, these additions to this child allowance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74427	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74428	Mr. President, the esteemed representative said he didn't know when he missed and when this mistake was made? It happened in 2001. He also said that this bill has been in the procedure for a year, in the procedure since 31 May 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74429	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74430	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will in any way support the proposal to amend this amendment and supplement the Law on child allowance not only for the reason that a mistake is corrected but for the reason that we owe this error to correct. I would like to remind you that we have written in our Constitution in Article 62 that the state protects motherhood, children and youth and creates social, cultural and material and other conditions, or that promotes the right to a decent life. And we wrote in 64, "It is the duty of all to protect children and powerless persons." In such a situation, it is quite clear that this one mistake that was made in the adoption of the Law, which simply led or brought children without their subjective guilt into an unfavourable situation which ends 15 years before the completion of the primary school, and did not do so for reasons, for objective reasons, for health reasons or I do not know, because they later went to school because they did not get the conditions to form a class in their area where the school exists and so on, and so on, there are not enough children. In such a situation, it is quite clear that the subjective guilt of these children and their parents is not and in such a situation needs to be corrected. That's the first one. Secondly, I'm a little surprised that the government has written in its opinion that there is such a mistake. The law is addressed to the parliamentary procedure on 31 May 2006. We had a whole series of debates in the 6th month, at the 7th month. Now here you see the second half of the 10th month. The Government should have come with an amendment to the Law to resolve this if it did not want to accept the Amendment Law and the amendments to the Law, which it referred to in the parliamentary procedure, the opposition representative. But the argument that a whole law is being prepared, while at the same time being aware that the constitutional provision is not respected because of a mistake, I don't think that it should simply stand on the basis of who made the mistake and why? You know, regardless of that and in a situation like this, it's quite clear that this needs to be fixed and that it needs to be done as soon as possible. For all these reasons, I will support this bill and, of course, congratulate my colleague, Lesar, who noticed this mistake and proposed amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74431	Thank you. Honorable representative Walter Poropat. Here you go. What's the matter? What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74432	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74433	Well, there's one correction to an incorrect quote. But, colleagues, Ružo Lelic, here you go. Okay. [[No, it wasn't me.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74434	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's what we see by reading this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements on Children, is that it actually consists of only two articles. In the first article, which states that the provisions of paragraph 1. are entitled to an allowance for children until the completion of primary schooling and a child who has completed 15 years of life and attends primary school, and I think that what a respected colleague has already said has an excellent basis in any case and that, given the arguments made in this proposal, they should rise above the political interests and see that here, in any case, it is a clear failure. That's why I think it's simply not supposed to have any particular indetermination, because this proposal for amending and supplementing the law actually speaks and what is simply missed because of someone's failure to say so. I therefore believe that, just as my colleague Lesar has suggested here, of course, that I am truly sorry that he is not here today, but here is his colleague from the HNS, who said the reasons why he simply couldn't be here today, but here I am, both on behalf of the IDS Club and in my personal name, I suggest that this proposal be adopted and that, as such, this article is entered into and that this slip is simply deleted from the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74435	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Child Supplements. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children proposed by Representative Dragutin Lesar for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government to the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 66 votes in favour and 27 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74438	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, although not many of us are there, but it will remain in the phonogram of the record, I guess, and a certain lead to the debate. It would be much better if it were led in the morning so that the general Croatian public would be informed of the efforts of the Croatian Peasant Party club to address one of the crucial, perhaps most important issues that plague our pensioners. As the HSS Club, we have referred us to the parliamentary procedure, as you can see on June 1st, two legislative proposals that suggest resolving a series of injustices that have been done to pensioners. Perhaps you should allow a few introductory, important sentences to focus on this problem as best possible. In fact, the pension reform began practically by adopting the Pension Insurance Act in 1998 and the law applicable from 1 January 1999. A year. That is why it is necessary to go back only 8 years, and let us remember that then the new reform of the pension system has caused a really great deal of interest, but also great expectations. The new pension system was expected to bring financial stability to the overall pension system and ensure a better position, a better material position for all pensioners, regardless of the period during which they make their pension. Today, however, we can regret to conclude that expectations are not truly met. The number of pensioners has increased, the material position of pensioners has not been improved, the number of employees or insurance workers has not been increased, a number of previous rights has been abolished, above all so-called. social rights, I'm talking about then, of course, the law, the right to an aid and care allowance, the right to a protective allowance, the right to children with disabilities in psychological or physical development with adequate cash compensation, the right to cash compensation for disabled workers as well as the right to change their jobs. It is also good to know that today's social basket, which according to official data is 6 thousand 270 kuna for a four-member family, according to union-run data. The average salary paid covers 70.27% of the social basket. The average paid pension covers only 30.5% of such baskets, and if only new pensioners are taken into consideration then she, then such average pension covers only 20% of the social basket. The state may even unwittingly overstep pensioners' obligations to employees who single out two contributions to pension insurance, classic for themselves out of wages and others for their family, for fathers and mothers to survive. So the position of the pensioners is getting worse. If this trend continues, the pensioners will soon have pensions below 1,000 kuna, which only confirms the need for regular pensions to fall realistically. It is not unusual, therefore, that almost 70% of pensioners receive a protective social supplement on their small pensions. The average pension is more than double the average pension in the European Union, and the prices and costs of life in us are not less than the same in that European Union that we are getting closer and closer to. It will be even harder to position the pensioners. Unlike those who are aware of the problems and have mechanisms to correct these injustices, but so far, nothing is done by the HSS that the problems are resolved and offers one possible solution. That is why it is seeking the support of the retired associations that have also given us official public support and unions in the 6th month, the trade unions gave us support in the 7th month, and we are also looking for the support of parliamentary parties. As the need for that thought, the government has seen these injustices, and more and more are being said in public. But to be honest, we're not sure that this is done with the intention of systemically solving and correcting injustice. We believe it's only part of the election campaign after all. We'll see. Why do we have the right to think so? Well, first of all, because in February 2005, the government formed a working group to draft an injustice settlement proposal for pensioners who met once in October of that year, and the second meeting was held in March this year with Prime Minister Sanader when they joined the working groups and representatives of the unions. They haven't had a single meeting until today. The Croatian Peasant Party is indeed the first party to present one of the models in public how to resolve existing injustices. As I said before, we have indeed had a number of meetings, since June coordination of retirement associations, coordination of union centres. I must also say that we have sought public support through a survey, a survey that has so far been signed, filled in by over 10,000 people, so not only retired people, but also unemployed and students and pensioners. And a huge number of them support these proposals and thinks they're useful and good. That is why, as I have already said, we are looking for support and parliamentary parties. Those parties that have given their support, I thank them. At all these meetings, some remarks have been made, and the proposals we have taken into consideration and we are willing to include them in part or in full in our legislative proposals. This in itself means that the Croatian Peasant Party is not seeking exclusiveity on this issue, but we are prepared to offer this solution to other parliamentary parties, and we believe it is still not too late to take into consideration the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or working group. But they all got on their parliamentary benches of government opinion both on one and the other of our legal proposals that is negative. But I'll talk about it later. We know that the existing proposals of the law do not solve all injustices, but our main idea was how to cover the largest number of pensioners with as little demand as possible in the current law, i.e. how to avoid significantly disrupting pension system reform with a minimum of interventions. Now a little bit about the bill itself. The existing Pension Insurance Act for the calculation of pension benefits is used by a formula based on personal points that depend on the total pension rate and the choir of all monthly salaries only by the pensioner and on the actual value of the pension. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Pension Insurance Act directly determines how the current value of the pension is calculated and so far it has changed that item twice, and the first amendments to the Pension Insurance Act determines the adjustment of the current value of pensions in such a way as to take only the rate of growth of the average salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia, and other amendments and additions introduce changes in the average index of consumer prices compared to the rate of change in the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia, provisions still in force today. This merely indicates that this actual value of the pension was one of the most important factors for the final calculation of pensions. Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the current value of the pension of 1 January 99, established the initial current value of the pension, 35.16. A significant mistake was made in the opinion of the Croatian Peasant Party club, since the total amount of pensions was not taken in the total, as ruled by the Constitutional Court on 12 May 1998, so before the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act. An additional error has been made because, for the purposes of calculating the current value of the pension, the mass of all pensions made in the earlier periods is taken. This applies to particularly low disability and family pensions from earlier periods, which have significantly reduced the total amount of pensions paid, and it would be far fairer if the calculation of pensions was calculated on the basis of the mass of pensions made, i.e. pensioners who made their first pension in 98 years. In the opinion of relevant experts, the Government then chose the worst option for pensioners. As a result of such an approach, the lower initial current value of the pension was calculated, reducing the pensions of new pensioners who for the first time made their pension after 1 January 99. The peace of older pensioners who made their pension by 31 December 98 were converted into personal points and this difference in pension amounts between old and new pensioners was created by the application of the Pension Insurance Act on the basis of the current value of pensions was still maintained today so that, simply or unilaterally, by increasing the current value of pensions, the difference would remain the same. For these very reasons, we have proposed this legislative proposal, and let me first refer to the current law, so the bill on the harmonisation of pensions achieved after 1 January 99. He primarily refers to new pensioners. This law equalises the pensions of new pensioners with pensions of old pensioners by increasing pensions for the first time from January 1st 99th to 31st December 99th by 7% and increasing pensions for each year after 1999 by a further 2% by increasing pensions for the first time from 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2006 by 21%. The difference in pension amounts would be paid in four equal wars in 2007 and 2008, so I'm talking about sort of half-yearly pay. This bill refers to an eye, more than 320 thousand new pensioners who have earned this right under the new Retirement Insurance Act adopted in 98. In particular, this means that the pensioner who retired in early 2000 with about 22.00 kuna, today his pension would be greater by 9% or more precisely around 2.960,00 kuna. That's what any pensioner can easily check. But according to us at the HSS Club, more important knowledge that the law determines and pays the difference in pensions that the pensioner has achieved under the new Pension Insurance Act is less than the right to do so under the old law. In particular, this means that every year the pensioner and every month of the year received a lower pension of 9% and any increase in pensions that was less due to it. That difference so far is only summed up and the amount of difference is not insignificant. For this example, in 2000 it means that this pensioner would get a difference of about 16 thousand kuna that would be paid in four equal wars, which means that in the end, if it tried somehow to translate, that each pensioner would receive about 4 thousand kuna per year or, say, a monthly higher pension of 670 kuna in the next two years. This pension harmonisation does not apply to the beneficiary of pensions that have been made under special rules, to the pensioners of agricultural insurance and to family pensioners whose pension was made after the death of the pensioner who made the pension before 1 January 1999. It is known to everyone that the Croatian Peasant Party has already given in the procedure and proposes the introduction of so-called National pensions, which would, of course, relate primarily to farmers, but this bill has already been rejected anyway, so the HSS will probably come out in the future with some new proposal. The government's opinion is negative, I've already said this intro and just because the government doesn't accept this legal proposal, let me comment on just a few arguments being presented in the opinion. I made those arguments on behalf of the promoter on the board, and I'm not so sure we'll hear such arguments here as well. Number one, so I'll comment on the government's negative opinion. The government thinks the proposed pension increase is based on the proposal's observation that the pensions of new pensioners are lower than the pensions of old pensioners. So it's an observation of the promoter, so the government thinks that the pensions of new pensioners are less than the pensions of old pensioners. It's not my observation, it's not the observation of my colleagues from the Croatian Peasant Party club, it's reality. It turns out that we've come to this conclusion about the differences in pensions of new and old pensioners. I personally made my own system of surveying and research on over a hundred pensioners and compared comparable jobs and came up with data that pensions of new pensioners from year to year are lower than the government I am sure of what we have been talking about for a long time. Let the government convince, for example, teachers retired after '99. In fact, they don't even know how they have large pensions and that their colleagues who made their pension before 1 January of '99. In fact, they have the same pensions as they do. The problem of convincing a particular population of pensioners is not the problem of the Croatian Peasant Party, that is the problem of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the government argues as an additional argument that the consequences of the extension of the accounting period to the level of pension vary in individual cases, and the negative consequences are minor for even-payers. I'll take another example of comparable pay. Small teachers' salaries and only low teacher's pensions, regardless of old or new ones. I guess teachers had even but small salaries and pension differences not in individual cases but in general, and they know and feel exactly that kind of retirement. Third, the government further as an argument states that the corrections made in this bill to increase pensions in order to equalise the position of new and old pensioners are considered unsustainable by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government does not say that the bill is bad, but that it is unsustainable, or indirect, saying that there are no new and old pensioners. It's said in the government's opinion. Fourth, an additional argument made by the government. This bill violates the relationship between pensions achieved in different periods. This finding is a little funny. It turns out that our bill of law will violate relations that are now in the government's opinion probably good or idyllic. On the contrary, the Croatian Peasant Party has proved that relations between the pensioners have been violated and our bill wants to correct these injustices. The fifth argument the government makes for a negative opinion. The proposed percentages of pension increases are set on a flat-rate basis. More precisely, these percentages were determined on the basis of my own research, but only for the reason that I did not receive any relevant data from the competent institution, so from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. However, I must say that I have conducted a series of informal conversations between my colleagues and myself, and that we have come to the data that these data is not significantly different from the official ones, they are very close. In order to obtain this exact information, let this Assembly commit the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to provide us with accurate information in other readings, here will the HSS Club accept the credible, precise data proposed by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. And the sixth argument the government makes for a negative opinion is an argument on how to finance. Why would it be financed from the state budget? And indeed, I am not going to make any comment on this argument to the government. Justification that there is no money to correct these injustices is not simply correct. Because just according to our calculations that we worked alone to bring these pension differences together, it took two billion kunas to be paid in four equal wars over the next two years, 2007 and 2008. This means that in one year less than 1% of the state budget should be allocated, and this is certainly not an impregnable obstacle to such a major and significant problem. Especially for the reason we know additional sources. For example, today, we have already talked about the protection of our organic belt where a million euro per day is lost. So let's not talk about the black market, the tobacco product, etc. Here, on the committee and the Ministry's representative, the presence here defended the government's opinion. He'll probably make the same arguments here. However, I will not simply comment on at least not for now these arguments, at least not anymore, because it was quite said but in this opening presentation, simply on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's promoter, we are looking for the support of the present parliamentary parties here. And those, yes... And the ones that aren't here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we're asking for the support of the public and parliamentary parties, the retirement unions, because we've received most of them support, so let's go with this bill to another reading. In the second reading, let the Croatian Pension Insurance Office provide us with precise calculation of the data, how many these differences are. I repeat, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will accept them, but we believe that this is the first serious step we want to take, and we call on you to correct the injustices against the new pensioners. That's why I invite you to support this bill in your first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74439	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74440	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Sabati said the law that came into force from January 1st, '99. suspended the right to other people's help and care. This right has not been abolished but has been transferred to social care and in such a way I think it has made it easier to apply that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74441	The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74442	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not support, i.e. it does not accept the Proposal for a Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions after 1 January 1999, which has been submitted by an act to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the HSS Club since 1 June 2006. The main point of the proposal is to increase pensions for users who have first obtained the right to retire from 1 January 1999, and the essence of the proposal is, in particular, the following. Under a: pensions made in 1999 would increase by 7%. Under b: pensions in 2000 would increase by 9%. Under c: every following year that percentage would increase by 2 percentage points. And under d: the pensions made in 2006 would increase to 21%. In this way, the corrections in terms of increasing, thus harmonising pensions, and in order to equate the situation, under the quotes of "new" compared to the old pensioners is indeed unsustainable. It has the elements of opacity or indifference, and perhaps it is the best result from the text of the applicant’s argument in point 3. Hence, the evaluations and sources of the necessary means of law enforcement. Namely, I'll quote from the very explanation of the motionary. Therefore, between 1 and 2 billion kunas are provided for in two years for the coordination of pensions, but precise data should be established by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute when excluding dead users of the right during that period or those who have achieved this right in the meantime by the basis of other regulations. Therefore, there is no analytical approach to the necessary indicators and the quantification of all the consequences of the proposed changes. In addition, it should be noted that in order to mitigate the difference between pensions achieved by and after the application of the Pension Insurance Act, a gradual transition has been introduced from 1 January 1999 to a new way of calculating pensions for three years from 10 most favourable years to the entire working age since 2009. However, the amendments themselves, or legal solutions, concrete legal solutions, are unacceptable and irreparable indeed for the following reasons. First, it is a completely different approach to the pension insurance system from the existing ones, so in a given sense, the proposal is not only incomparable but unacceptable. Secondly, the concept of implemented pension reform is violated. Third, relations between pensions achieved during a different period are disrupted. Fourthly, the proposed percentages and heights of the increase are set on a flat-rate basis. And five, the proposed expenditure should be financed directly from the state budget, which is unacceptable because it is the pension insurance rights that should be financed by the contribution of natural insurance undertakings in this pension scheme. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not accept the proposed, amendments and additions of the proposed Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74443	Thank you. For the HSS club, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74444	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So here's a few more sentences about this law. So I think all pensioners with equal pension conditions should be in the same position. That there are no irregularities in the abolition of pensioners that contain certain illegalities or even counter-constitutions. The fact is that pensions were made by 1 January of '99. in the transitional accounting period lower than the pensions which are under the same conditions of standing and wages reached by 31 December '98. A year. Thus, an esteemed colleague earlier said that some things were impossible to perform and focused more on how to resuscitate that part of the export funds. I think we all have to agree that the whole thing is here, the important thing is to end the injustice that exists, which is definitive, which no one can dispute. The legal provisions of specific methods and the calculation of pensions have created a significant difference in pensions for insurance workers who were entitled to pension before and after 1 January 1999. A year. So far, changes and additions to the law show that the actual value of retirement was the most important factor for the final calculation of pensions. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the actual value of pensions of 1 January established the initial current value of pension in 35,16. There was a significant mistake because the total mass did not take the amount of pensions as ruled by the Constitutional Court on 12 May 1998, so before the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act. The additional error was made because, for the purposes of calculating the current value of the pension, the mass of all pensions made in the previous period would be far more just to calculate the pension of the pension on the basis of the mass of pensions made, i.e. pensioners who for the first time made their pension in '98. A year. In the opinion of relevant experts, the Government then chose the worst option for pensioners. As a result of such an approach, the lower initial current value of the pension was calculated which reduced pensions to new pensioners who for the first time made their pension after 1 January from 7% to 21% today. The peace of old pensioners who made pensions by 31 December were converted into personal points and this difference in pension amounts between old and new pensioners was created by the application of the Pension Insurance Act on the basis of the current value of pensions was still maintained today so that, by simply increasing the current value of pensions, the difference would remain the same. A real division was created for old and new pensioners who receive a smaller pension for the same number of years of employment and the same income compared to the old pensioners. In 2008, the situation will be even more unfavourable for new pensioners and the current almost 400 thousand active workers so that even 25% less pensions are predicted than those received by old pensioners. For the purpose of this Act, additional resources are needed to be provided in the State budget in 2007. In the opinion of the Government on the Bill's Proposal, it states that the provisions under which the expenditure would be financed from the state budget through the application of the Bill's proposal. If the Government has a better proposal for pensioners to be granted pension rights as of 1 January '99. by 31 December 2006, it shall calculate and pay the difference in some other way. However, there are a number of irregularities, failures and perhaps abuses and all of this should be checked, corrected and, of course, removed, and that this could first require political will to carry out, knowingly and studioly, a pension disability reform that will be fair to all Croatian citizens. Family pension, farmers' pension and small craftsmen's pensions, highest and lowest pensions, protective benefits, foreign pensions, differentiation of pension reforms from social care policy. Perhaps before the introduction of order and justice in advance, the thematic debate on economic policy should be held even though economic growth has been going on for a year and a half, but perhaps by analysing this, it could be accelerated because for our opportunities, we all agree not enough. Creative growth based on production, I think that's what everyone should discuss. We think it's also a prerequisite for a fair pension reform but also social policy. It must not be lost in terms of profitable social balance and social cohesion. Everyone complains that the 7th layer is missing, that there are few rich and unfortunately many poor. Too little pensions are significantly less than earned and whether it is a motivation for a particular situation that we need overall in the economy. I think I have to mention once again what the government has already refused several times, it is about pension and not about this harmonisation, and it is about national pension for peasants, where almost several years ago, as we have been here in Parliament, I think for the third time our proposal has been rejected for a great injustice for nearly 100 thousand of our citizens, which unfortunately cannot participate in this coordination either because they have no pensions. We hope that next time this proposal will pass in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74445	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74446	Well, it's very short. Namely, an esteemed colleague incorrectly stated that I was opposed to a possible righting of injustice. I absolutely did not stand up to it, I have certainly argued that such a concrete way of proposing amendments and amendments to the law will not remove it. On the contrary, there is a danger that those in certain segments are even more deepening.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74447	For the club of representatives of IDS esteemed representative Valter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74448	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The government gentlemen. The proposal for a Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions after 1 January 1999 should, in any case, be welcomed as a proposal that provides one of the solutions for the harmonisation of pensions, etc. New pensioners. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the current value of pension from 1 January 1999 established the initial current value of pension 35.16. The current value of the pension shall be determined for each half-year by aligning the current value of the pension at the rate obtained as half the sum of the change in the average cost of life index in the previous half-year and the change in the average gross salary rate of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the previous half-year compared to the half-year that precedes it. So far, this item has been amended twice and the first amendments to the Pension Insurance Act in 2004 determine the adjustment of the current value of the pension in such a way as to take only the rate of growth of the average salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia and the other changes and additions in 2005 introduce the rate of change in the average consumer price index compared to the rate of change in the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. Provisions that are still in force. This merely indicates that the actual value of the pension was just one of the most important factors for that final calculation of pensions. A mistake was made here because the total amount of pensions was not taken as ruled by the Constitutional Court of 12 May 1998. the year before the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act. An additional error was made because, for the purposes of calculating the current value of pensions, the mass of all pensions made in earlier periods, particularly the low disability and family pensions from earlier periods, which felt a significant reduction in the overall mask of pensions paid and would far more justly have been calculated on the basis of the mass of pensions or pensioners who had made their first pension in 1998. According to government experts, the government then chose the worst option for pensioners. As a result of such an approach, the lower initial current value of the pension has been calculated which has reduced the pensions of so-called pensions through automation. "new pensioners" who for the first time made their pension after 1 January 1999 from 7% to 21% today. The peace of old pensioners who made pensions by 31 December 1998 are calculated in personal points and this difference in pension amounts between old and new pensioners was created by amending the Pension Insurance Act on the basis of the current value of the pension, has been retained today. Thus, by simply increasing the current value of the pension, this difference would remain the same. We at the IDS Club are in favour and we will advocate any proposal that will ultimately equalise the pensions of new pensioners with those who made pensions by 1 January 1999, so we suggest that this proposal go to second reading and that until then all irregularities and injustices are corrected against new pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74449	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74450	Mr. President. State Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I read in the Constitution in Article 1 among other things in paragraph 1 it is said that Croatia is a social state. Then Article 3 states that equality among other things is social justice, that I do not read all the other principles, the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and are the basis for interpreting the Constitution. The question arises and what kind of social state we are, what equality is there with us and social justice when we have obviously inequality, social injustice, and in this segment, the social state has not functioned when, for the same year, the work experience, for the same contributions paid to the pension fund and for the same amount of wages, practically when people retire, find themselves in an unfavourable situation or an unequal situation, and it is equitable that constitutional principles have not been respected. And that, in fact, in such a situation, thanks to the failure of the legislator, and, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that, instead of achieving fundamental constitutional principles, and more importantly, it is a peaceful and secure age for our citizens who, on the basis of their work and their contribution to pension insurance payments, I stress insurance. It's an insurance payment age should have an equal position. The second thing we want to say clearly and unequivocally in the name of the club. This isn't just an accident, one of the accidents that affected the pensioners. Unfortunately, all pensioners in the Republic of Croatia in the last three years of the month, from year to year, experience that their average pension and guaranteed pension is getting lower and lower compared to the average salary and guaranteed salary in the Republic of Croatia. And in such a situation, it is clear that their individual and family standard or the possibility of achieving an average standard is becoming more difficult and more difficult and worse and worse. It is, of course, a category of older citizens who, in their standard, must count on treatment and on the achievement of other social rights for which, unfortunately, by amending the legal system or laws that regulate that part, we transfer more and more burdens from the social community and state to the individual, to the citizens. All this actually imperative requires that this issue be corrected. There is no doubt that it must be corrected and the question of wisdom is solved as soon as possible. Because the longer it gets, the longer it gets, the longer it gets, the more the burden of correcting this injustice on the one hand, and on the other hand, the more the demand for what has been missed is the burden of moral responsibility because of those who will not experience it because of the failure of the legislation is greater and more complex and more difficult to deal with. Fourthly, there's no discussion or doubt, you can argue whether or not a composition of a sentence is made. Which of the arguments that a mistake was made was this or the one as proposed in order, perhaps this one or that one, it doesn't matter. They listed some of which may be perhaps the most obvious resulting from this situation for new pensioners. But the slowest part is that on average now, as estimated by around 320 thousand pensioners, as the proposings say, is in the position that more than 20% or by 2008 more than 25% would have had an average pension of less than their colleagues who left before 1.1.1999. Why? What do you do? Some assessment of the necessary means to correct this from January 1st, so in the future, it doesn't even go back to the funds for which these pensioners have been cut off because of leaks they don't receive, but even if they do, it moves from 1.5 billion to 2 billion kuna. You know when this is calculated by national gross product that means that Croatia needs organisational tax, economic policies and measures to ensure that it increases only 0.8% of the national gross product compared to the current national gross product. And cover it. And we are constantly arguing about the issue of national gross product deficits, and in this example, it is evident how important it is to increase national gross product and therefore to accumulate funds for resolving social issues, correcting the social injustices that we have done among other things. Look, we can't talk about the former system right now. We're in the game now. At the end of the game is if you want the legislative body and there is no other body, there is no other need to resolve this issue as soon as possible. You know the argument put forward in the government's opinion, I, not after a good analysis and a good argument that the colleagues of the HSS on behalf of the motionor have made regarding such views of the Government, there is no need to comment. Except for one that comes from the whole opinion. All the arguments in that opinion were made not to reject this draft law which is on the agenda but not to resolve this issue. And that's what's absolutely unacceptable. And the greatest value of this bill is that this question is placed on the agenda in the legislative body, in the largest representative body to begin solving. I'm undermining again, it's an older population that unfortunately over time is getting smaller and, on the other hand, by leaving a growing number of our citizens in retirement is actually increasing nominally at the same time. The question is, how long do you put up with injustice? We believe that we must not do so and therefore not only do we support the proposal of this law to go into another reading but we also support any other proposal that will eventually appear in the debate about a possible new model or a different way of resolving this issue? But what is undeniable, if we want to respect the fundamental principles of the Constitution as the highest values of our Constitutional Order on Equality and Social Justice, there is no discussion that for equal work, equal time spent at work, equal time paid contributions to pension and disability insurance, or our institution and equal accounting must be equal pension if we want to acknowledge that equality exists among citizens. We must not create legal regulations that will put them in an unequal position. We can't. In particular, we must not if this is the consequence of bringing them into such a situation as to endanger their existence and to address their fundamental issues related to meeting the social, health and any other standards of our citizens. One more thing, you know some may object that the motionor should have provided for the implementation of this Act of Assets. The promoter went the most uninvolved way and told it to be out of the budget. Of course the government says why the budget? So we say why the budget? Let the government find other means. But then we ask a very serious question if he can already find other funds why is he paying out of the budget now for the total pension? When are we aware that the contributions we pay can't cover, do we have the resources that are needed for our pensioners? And we can no longer raise our contributions to the total income if we want to achieve such a ratio with the environment or the economic social system from the environment. It is therefore clear that these budget funds must be provided, and further consideration needs to be given to whether additional funds can be provided that will attempt to mitigate the wrong done already by retroactively providing for the return of what the pensioners have lost due to the unfair law. The last thing I'm going to say about this bill. We consider it not only a matter of morality, but a question of legality and constitutionality to refuse this bill. It shall not be refused if the fundamental principles of the Constitution are respected. We can discuss who will prepare it in the final proposal, whether in a model like this. In addition, in political discussions, all parties, both positions and opposition, say the issue should be resolved. But why is it that what we're talking about on the street, what we're talking about in front of the media, in the stands, at the meetings, there's finally no right of legitimacy to talk about it openly where it belongs and where it needs to be and has to be solved, and that's this assembly. Well, we're representatives of the citizens. Since we've received this proposal I suggest on behalf of our club that we all support together that he goes to another reading and that until the second reading try to find a solution to the modality. If there's an even better solution for the pensioners, we'll be happy to support him. And the last thing I'm going to say about this situation. Croatia must definitely consider the relationship between the working-dependence population, the relationship between employees and those who are retired. It cannot and must not happen, as we do, that from month to month, year to year the average pension falls again. We need to open the procedure to reach at least 50% of the average salary in the next 3.4 years, not to go about 41% and still fall. And this is an additional issue that we need to sit and talk about openly, and mainly taking care of the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia and the tendencies that are present. Because simply the older population can't go any further. It's compromised. This is the most endangered population in our country, given the sources of income that have opportunities. In order not to prolong, we will support this bill's proposal, it's not about amending and supplementing the law, as someone said on behalf of the club. It's a new law, a brand-new law that solves an open question, one early cancer of our elderly population and one moral stain created by a legislator by passing such a law. And they have to make it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74451	Thank you. I'm closing, here you go, I'm waiting, I'm watching. Here you go. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of the Sabbath. Correction of an incorrect quote, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74452	An esteemed colleague and vice president of the Croatian Parliament would be corrected in an incorrect statement when he said the government had given such an opinion that this would not be resolved. That's not true. The government has given this opinion that, and here I agree with you that a concrete bill, not amending and supplementing the law, is not being resolved, so in this way. The government will simply have to deal with this issue, so at the very end of all these and constitutional reasons that you have mentioned. But not in this way, not on such a concrete proposal, and that's why she gave this opinion, not that the problem is not solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74453	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74454	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe it's also a good thing we're discussing this problem in a calm day, so that even the real state of things doesn't really get to the people who do it the most, to the pensioners, because if they don't know less if we're a little interested in their problem, it's better. What exactly do you say about this agony that lasts too long? Why would I call it agony? That's because we haven't worked out quality there since the early '90s. What's this about? We had noble ideas, we had good legal proposals. However, the execution of all operations best tells us the situation in which we are today. I'll remind you of the Privatisation Act, we've decided that every sale of a company from a government portfolio is filled with a pension fund. However, we could not limit the availability of shares in the pension fund. At the time of the loss of money from the payment for arms in Croatia, at the time when the money from the sale of social housing was also lost, the missing quality shares from that fund, and some bad ones appeared, because there was a rule that shares for the share could be changed by nominals, and how much their market value is not important. So the market value of 100 marks was changed for one that had no market value or was symbolically worth 1 mark. So it happened all the way back to '95, '96. A year. However, there is still some quality in this fund. There's still the Pliva that's been so much talk about these days. However, there is no more of that now. The fund was filled with Pliva dividends if the pension fund had shares, making it logical that the dividend was paid in favour of all pensioners who were in the first pillar. And they all thus consumed the right to retire and to potentially increase pensions. Now it's gone, and there's probably not going to be any INAs soon or I don't know the privatisations of the Elektroprivreda for the next year or two, so it's all questionable. This proposal, which represents the HSS, is unquestioned, and this is to compensate those who are unduly damaged for pension payments. The proposal is very simple, we return what has happened in the past seven years. However, we do not wish to propose a proposal to repay the debt to pensioners, such as the previous law that has just been implemented. It is generally known that 72% of the pensioners have decided, under quotes, "for the immediate repayment of the debt". That "current" I speak under quotes, because it refers to a period of two years. Which is why they chose not to explain the debt in such a way. All 28% of them decided to repay their debt over a period of eight years. So if that... With some size of 100 kuna, those pensioners, 72% of them got only 36 kuna. [[You don't understand.]] And if we see that 28% decided for an 8-year period where inflation is annual at least 3%, then they too will remain damaged sometime by about 25% when they receive that debt or instead of 100 kunas that the pensioners are supposed to get damaged for the period covered by that law they will get 57 kuna. 43 kunas have evaporated somewhere. Well, you see, that's why we should open this topic as soon as possible. I'm surprised she's causing so little interest. I am surprised that there is no other reading possible because here is the HDZ club vigorously against this bill, even though I listen to the prime minister in the media that this or similar law will go next year because Prime Minister Sanader said that injustice should be corrected, but that will be done next year. Whether next year's pre-election or not we want to deal with this problem in due time, commissions meet in principle to solve pensioners' problems once a year or even less. In fact, that is why we have suggested what can be completely certain to go to another reading because we have detected the problem. We have proposed to return exactly what period and we have proposed even a model for which we do not claim to be ideal how much should be returned and coma. You are interested in data and worrying that in Croatia the one who works longer will get a smaller pension and it is characteristic even for the lowest pension, because even on the minimum pension criterion if you work longer, you will also get a smaller pension, which is very unusual. I wonder, and the HSS wonders, is it necessary to introduce a guaranteed pension in Croatia as well. If the lowest pension is a social category, I agree that it is, it is some minimum of life, but it should probably be guaranteed a pension for those who went to work for 40 years so that they haven't done anything but get up at 7 a.m. and return home at about 5 o'clock, we should get a better solution and it is a guaranteed pension that is paid in the form of a minimum pension, and it is somewhere around 1,800,00 kuna, I think 1,833,00 kuna. So 40 years of work, getting up every day at 7:00 in the morning, returning home at noon at 5 and 1,800,00 kuna. It's a problem we've known for a long time, but we're not ready to solve it because there is no political will. Here we are now bickering whose idea, whose bill is, we will go with our proposal that may offer something different solutions but actually has to solve the same problem, and this problem is called someone damaged, it is damaged by the one who worked and the one who has the right to return it in as short a time as possible. The tragedy is that in Croatia, a pensioner who is going to retire this year under the law will have only 28% of the average salary in Croatia. What it looks like in Europe, which we hope again to enter in 29 years, is data for 15 European Union countries, for example. 2003. On average, it's 78.60% of their average salary. One Austria, for example. which is very close to us, has as much as 88% of the salary of the average pension. Denmark has 68%, France 78%, Italy 88%, and you see Croatia is similar because it has the same eight, but it has 28%. This is worrying especially because some countries in transition are also sensitive to this phenomenon and have managed to keep pace and in Slovenia it is 70%. Well, we should really do something fast. Time is running out. We see too much of the problem, we talk too politically, and the negative consequences happen, and the injustices are getting bigger and bigger. Let's try to get back what no one here has completely denied, belongs to these people. Let's try to get that back as soon as possible. Let's make a mini reform, if we've made a major reform of the pension system, then we'll make a minimum reform and admit what we've done wrong in that reform, so it's not a sin to admit. It is a sin not to correct injustices especially when it comes to people who have worked for 40 years and who certainly have the right not to be a social category but to live off their past work. Because of this, I suggest that this bill goes into second reading because there is simply no reason to reject it and not technically fix it and add more analysis to make it operational and to make it applicable from next year, and not just to think about going out in the pre-election year with the first reading of that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74455	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74456	Proposal for a Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions after 1 January 1999 A year. In accordance with the proposals made by the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: the Proposal for a Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions reached after 1 January 1999 is not accepted. the year proposed by the HSS Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the Government's opinion to the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 65 votes in favour, one abstention and 27 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74457	We're moving on to the next 17. - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, first reading of P.Z. No. 510 You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Honorable representative of the Sabbath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague and a colleague, so of course this amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, we can say, in part, to the overall problem. We can even say that the bill on pension harmonisation is also a moral category, a political decision. This law actually solves yet I'd say a little more complex another area. In fact, when we spoke in the previous law that the current value of retirement in the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act was one of the crucial factors for reducing pensions, especially today when we speak to new pensioners, we need to ask ourselves a question and what will happen to future pensioners. Now I'm employed, of course, by a little carefree age. Maybe God doesn't give old age in misery and despair to most employees now. According to all the indicators, it's a real danger. Already two-thirds of the pensioners are living below the poverty threshold. And prolonging the resolution of these growing injustices will only require ever greater funds in the future. It's just like that. The longer it will wait with a political decision, of course, to deal with these injustices, the more and more pensioners who will be suspended and, therefore, I am surprised to be honest with the committee when there has been a debate on this bill, including this previous one, an explanation of individual board members, especially those expected and especially one expected to support such a bill. This is just a bill of law that benefits the pensioners, not that the pensioner's representative was restrained. And that's what we're going to say in public. Retired people don't want to solve problems like this. Of course, I suppose you'll maybe go through... the time of HSU or someone from that coalition government to make a new proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, we're willing to participate in all this, so we've made our contribution with these bill proposals. But good, that's it. What is most painful in this whole story is simply an interpretation that there were no constitutional lawsuits, that there were no elements on which to go with these laws into another reading. So do we really want to create the same situation as we did on May 12, '98? the year when the Constitutional Court ruled for an extremely large number of pensioners and reached judgments. Well, it's a big job. So isn't it simpler based on the apparent injustice that was launched here in this High House debate on this topic. I repeat, here we are constantly speaking from the HSS, wherever we need through a press conference, through the stands, and here we're talking, so we're not looking for exclusiveity. We've introduced one of the possible solutions. Maybe there's a better solution, let's get together, find the best solution. But what's there is. If it is taken into account what is being found in the Strategic Framework for Development that the second pension column of 5% will be insufficient, i.e. that all those who reach the second pillar, that the funds for them will be insufficient, then this is certainly an even more drastic problem. Even more alarming is the situation that is predicted in this strategic framework for development in terms of the number of pensioners and the number of employees. Today it's a pensioner and 1.39 employees. However, I repeat, on the basis of this Strategic Framework, it is predicted that in 2040 the ratio would be 1.35 pensioners per employee. Well, there will really be more pensioners than employees, which means that this system simply can't survive. When this topic is discussed then there are certainly I will repeat if you need this data, the Strategic Framework for Development, is currently 1 to 1.39, and in 2040, read it anyway is going to be 1.35 to 1. So if you need to correct an incorrect quote. Or a replica. I repeat, in the overall discussions that are being held, of course the pension system is thus created and so designed to be primarily the labour market regulator. But what we all want together, which should be, is that it should be stimulating, or that it should give different opportunities for people to work longer. Let us listen a little bit to what they say about this topic at this point in time by a member of the European Union. Serious problems. In this way, of course, the objectives of the Lisbon strategy would be met, to make it as much as possible, or to increase the participation of older than 50 years as employees. The goal of such a Lisbon strategy is 50%, and today we have 14%. What primarily motivated us to amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act? First of all, one basic and important thesis, which is one that the government could not give to the chance to be covered by the reform, should have given the chance to retain the rights they had before the reform. On the basis of this thesis, we have proposed amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. Very short and clear, it says a lot here so we don't last any longer. What do we suggest? Most importantly, we propose 15 of the most favourable consecutive years for the calculation of pensions, but exactly in accordance with our thesis. We also planned Article 3 which states: The provisions of this law apply only to those insurance companies who have not entered the second pillar of retirement, who have not entered the second pension column. The principle of righteousness. As this Law suggests, I have already said that we at the HSS Club are proposing 15 most favourable consecutive years, unlike the provisions that have been in place since '99. by 2009 it includes the total working time for the calculation of pensions, means for all pensioners. We want those who couldn't enter the second column. We don't know if it's the best solution that we've ever made to exempt the others, but we wanted at least a based principle of justice to equalize as many pensioners who in 10 years' time had the right to retire and the Proposal for a Law on the Harmonization of a new... to raise to the level of pensions of those old pensioners and then, at the age of 15, employees who were unable to achieve that right to enter the second pillar try as much as equalise those pensions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Question why 15 years? When we were talking about the coordination of retirement associations, we heard a very clear attitude that the pensioners' association has. It's been requested for 10 years again, but if a little analysis is made of the application of the Pension Fund Act, I say, and I end up in a way that people who couldn't sign the second pillar, then we came to the conclusion that these 15 years were just a little bit more than that period. And of course when we're talking, and we all agree, the HSS will accept the suggestion of 10 years, and we've been thinking about it, why not, but we're very happy if you give us support for 15 of the most favourable consecutive years. As far as the lowest pension is concerned, our Amendment and Supplement proposal suggests that the lowest pension is determined for each year by a pension rate of 0.75% of the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in '98. A year according to the State Statistics Institute data. I would like to start by saying at the beginning of the discussion that we also discussed this provision of our proposal to amend and supplement the law with trade unions, of course with pensioners' associations. Their remark was that it was better to keep 0.825% of the average gross salary of all employees, and here we were discussing here at the club, doing little analysis, ready to accept such suggestion and remark. I'm saying because of the discussion if someone says it's better to be 0.825 we're ready if we get the support that it goes into another reading with your own amendment to go into this amendment. As far as the lowest pension is concerned, I really wouldn't explain much here, because one part of it is my colleague Mr. Pecek mentioned in the closing word of the previous point, and that's a classic eclectic example here. People who work 30 and two, three years in fact will be if, of course, they work in such areas where there are very low salaries will have fewer pensions than if they retired with 30 years of employment. In what areas is this particularly true? There's no need to explain. The area where they work... branches of the industry present, textiles, leather industry, wood industry, I don't know ironworks etc., and there are many in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not those people's fault that they're doing a low-paid job, and that's why we went with logic to make every year's job work worth the same for the lowest pension, we suggest that a single or unique percentage be reacquired for the calculation of the lowest pension. The government, of course, has given its negative opinion here, is nothing unusual or strange, and you have the full opinion of the government in front of you. One of the topics relating to the lowest pension is that in the first years it has been observed that the lowest pension is used by a very high number of pensioners, about 36% of the total number of pensioners, i.e. the lowest pension was about 3% lower than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. It's not exactly like that, but good. I repeat, we were at the HSS club looking into it and weighing on what to do for a long time. We propose these few articles as a simple model for those insurance companies who could not enter the second column. I can also accept some general remark that the pension system is coming down. So it does not collapse for those pensioners who under this new Pension Insurance Act could enter the second pillar remain in force in the existing law, and these provisions only apply to those who did not have the opportunity to enter the second pillar. So our thesis for those whom the Government could not give the chance to be covered by the reform should have given the chance to retain the rights they had before the reform and to be translated into this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. We expect support here, of course, except for what I was saying, that we have the support of the coordination of pension societies, unions especially because here it is working and most of all concerns the current employees who will, almost or in the future, exercise the right to retire and expect the support of, of course, representatives of parliamentary parties here in this House, and of course, we expect the support of the parties that are not represented in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74459	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club does not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Namely, the proposer of the proposed amendments and additions to the interventions in two pension insurance systems institutes: the first is the institute of minimum pensions and the second is the establishment of the most favourable 15 years of employment for the calculation of pensions. Of course it's about the first pillar. We will all agree with the fact that the lowest pension is, in fact, a social category or a character of social giving or compensation based on the principle of solidarity. Such payments can indeed be determined by other criteria than those which would be referenced or based exclusively on the length of the insurance investments in retirement insurance during the working life. In this regard, it is therefore rejected that the minimum pension does not value the length of the pensioner's work experience because, ultimately, such criteria are incomparable in the light of the character of social contributions. It is noted that the minimum pension was introduced in the Pension Insurance Act 01.01. In 1999, and its height since 01.01.1999 depended exclusively on years of retirement benefits. As of that date, the lowest pension for each year of the pension pension is also set at 0.825% of the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in '98. A year. It should also be pointed out that in the first years of the application of this law, it was found that the minimum pension was used by a very high number of retired people, and that is a statistical fact, so a total of about 36% of the total number of pension beneficiaries that had made their pension since 01.01. In 1999, which contributed to a relatively high level of minimum pension compared to the general level of pensions. However, it should be pointed out that the introduction of the lowest pension as specific social measures based on the solidarity of all insurance companies has been achieved that protected pensioners who had low income during their economic activities and, of course, made small contributions to them. As regards this second part or the proposal that 15 of the most favourable consecutive years should be taken for the calculation of pensions instead of the solution by which the total working time is taken for all insurance undertakings with a gradual extension of the accounting period of 3 years is also unacceptable from the perspective of the system of pension reform and the functioning of the pension system in our opinion. This would actually mean a return to the old system before the reform in which pensions were determined on the basis of the ten most favourable annual salaries. Such a pension scheme would have had and resulted in a reduction in insurance incentives for payment of contributions on the one hand. In this case, the amount of pensions would depend only on salaries over a shorter period rather than on salaries from the whole working life. On the other hand, such a system would affect the reduction of income from contributions. I think both arguments are quite logical. And not just that. Such a way of determining pensions would favour high-income insurance workers only during a certain period. Not to mention a shorter period of time. It should also be pointed out that, in addition to the expected high expenditure, it would also cancel out the positive effects because there really are, binding the amount of pensions to the salary of the entire working life and which was one of the main objectives of the pension reform implemented. Indeed, for these reasons or for all of the above reasons, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community cannot support the proposed amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74461	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I was asked to step up by this claim that 36% of new pensioners after '99. She's been using her lowest pension for years because she's tall. So imagine which absurd. Mr Emil Tomljanovic stands outside the HDZ club, 36% of the people who have worked for a long time, who have been investing in a pension fund using the form of the lowest pension since the lowest pension is high. Well, Mr. Tomljanovic, he's using it because we're calculating his wrong pension. And in order for you to have better information, I'm going to tell you the height of those lowest pensions that people "determine". In 15 years of retirement duty, 688.65 kuna. In 20 years of internship 918.20 kuna and 30 years of internship, the lowest pension should exceed the limit of dreams from the incredible thousand 377 kuna. So you see, that high minimum pension if you're working for 30 years is a thousand 377 kuna. That's the data, that's the numbers people decide on. It's not up to them to decide but to calculate their pension is lower than that. They've been working for 30 years, and their pensions are under a thousand, 377 kuna. Well, there's probably only one in Croatia. I don't know where he has it. And when we look at what that would mean in 35 years of training and you know that women have the possibility of full internships according to the old law at 35 years of age. This full pension for 35 years is a thousand 492.10 kuna. And you see they decide after 35 years for a thousand 492 kuna. You know why they decide? Because they got a solution lower than that. They've been given a solution for 35 years to an internship of a thousand and 200 kuna. Well, I guess they don't make up their mind because it's high than their decision is much less about retirement than their lowest pension. And do you know Mr. Tomljanović or the HDZ Club for as many years? A thousand 606,90 kuna a month for 40 years of internships. It's obvious, then, that people opt for the lowest pension because it's high. After 40 years of internships, they get a solution of 1,000 kuna and get a solution lower. You have completely forgotten that principle of righteousness. This is the principle that those who gave should get more and, of course, those who were to get less eventually could get less if they paid less, if they worked less and so on. Now what should we do, what should we do if we want to improve the position of these pensioners who go after 1999? We should stimulate them to retire because if they're going to retire today they'll have a bigger pension than they do after two years. So why should they pay two years in a pension column because as soon as they meet any condition, it's obviously best to leave because for longer work and payment of contributions we punish workers or punish new pensioners. Look, we're trying to correct this injustice, but I am fully aware that our pension funds are thin. That the first pillar was actually ruined. Or another information, Mr. Tomljanovic. In 1998, if you were a parliamentary representative and had no right to retire under a special law, you would retire with 2,000 kuna. Now, 9 years later, that pension would've been worth it to you and if you'd kept working as a parliamentary representative of 1,000 kuna. And theoretically speaking, how much is she downsized in 2019, we wouldn't even have a pension. See, these are the differences between the old law and the new law. These are the injustices that we should correct. But let's try to fix them right now. Let's not wait for the election year.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74463	Correction of the incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Tomljenović, Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74464	Well, it's an incorrect claim from an esteemed colleague that I've given incorrect information. Because I said the exact statistical data that stands in these materials and is easily verifiable that about 36% of the total number of pensioners who made their pensions up to 1.1.1999 in this sense was therefore high because, on average, looking at the statistics, the relatively high amount of that pension was. Since you keep repeating my name, the time period, and so on, when you're talking about matter, when you want to teach someone that way for four years you've been in power, so why didn't you suggest it? Well, you've been a minister today, sir, and you're calling my name here. You're dealing with who? With statistics? You've been Minister of Government for four years, so what's the matter? You didn't propose smart proposals? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's a good idea. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74465	... The club, on behalf of the IDS Club, respected representative of the Poirot, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ma'am from the government. The draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act should, in any case, be welcomed as well as the Proposal for a Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions after 1 January 1999. I say we should welcome as a proposal that provides one of the solutions in order to eliminate the inexplicable injustice towards insurance workers who are working full-time with small incomes and are then further punished with an even lower pension because it is the law that reduces the amount of pension for those pensioners who spend 30 years working hours and have very low wages. The HSS Club proposes an amendment in such a way that the lowest pension is set at 0.75% of the gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in 1998, which respects the fact that the lowest pension affects the permanent increase in pension expenditure and also corrects the injustice that workers with longer working experience receive a lower, minimum pension. It can't be that an internship over 30 years is worth less. This law seeks to stimulate insurance companies to work as long as possible because their pensions will eventually be bigger. Furthermore, insurance undertakings not subject to the obligation to enter the second pillar of pension insurance and to which Article 184 applies. The Retirement Insurance Act will have a significantly lower pension than existing pensioners who were entitled to do so by 31.12.1998 or pensioners who made their pension after 1 January 1999 and whose pensions are proposed for the alignment of the programme, the Proposal for a Law on the Harmonisation of Pensions after 1 January 1999. This is an unacceptable provision of the law and we at the IDS Club agree with the proposal of the HSS Club that proposes an amendment in such a way that the calculation of pensions is taken 15 years of the most favourable consecutive years of work experience for insurance workers who have not entered the second pillar of pension insurance. We at the IDS Club are in favour and we will stand up for every proposal that will finally correct the unacceptable present reality that a working internship of over 30 years is worth less than the least embarrassing said. We propose that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, which has been referred to by the HSS Club in the parliamentary procedure, and that, until then, the possibility of resolving not only takes 15 of the most favourable years but perhaps 10 of the most favourable years to correct the unacceptable present that the work experience of more than 30 years is worth less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74467	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74468	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, we've heard a lot in the past few days and in the past, about the problems that pensioners or the entire retirement population face in their existence. We've heard a lot of data on poverty limits, low incomes, inequalities, old, new pensions. It's really more or less familiar to us, and it's obvious that there's no point in discussing these elements anymore, so to speak, we've detected and we know what they are and we know what the consequences of them are. But I don't think the partial changes in the pension system have ever been good, nor will they be good in the future. Because it is very easy to lead to new inequalities, to new imbalances, and therefore we think that every correction of the future pension system, I am saying this from the experience we have, every correction of the pension system must rest on a truly serious, deep analysis of the functioning of the complete pension system and the solutions that it has established. Therefore, one complete analysis of the status of the pension system set out in 1.1.'99 should be carried out. years to see what he brought us, where the defects are and how these effects are seriously and long-term amortized. We think one such approach can give us results. Of course, analytically it must include all other elements in the pension system itself. It's not just a matter of 10, 15 years. And we have to define that. Of course we were 10 years old, but we have to evaluate that. There are other elements, e.g. In the case of early retirement, pension coordination in the future. We're not even in agreement with the Swiss formula today. Let's talk about what we're gonna do with it. So there are a number of elements that have to be very seriously subjected to one deep analysis and opportunities of Croatia how to solve what is not good. We believe that such an analytical approach can also give some solutions that are feasible and feasible and can optimally satisfy what the pensioners expect from us. I would just like to point out that we highly appreciate the effort that has been put into proposing this law and we appreciate it as an initiative and support to address these problems. But a little bit of I have to, but it's still unclear how now we're suddenly in such a hurry to settle everything overnight, and we've been in power, we've had a chance to solve it, so we haven't done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74469	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74470	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me make my point, I will, I will support this bill of amendments and additions to the law to go to another reading. Why? Because the bill itself has seen in the system of the current law or reform which is being implemented certain irregularities it corrects. Secondly, it is shown that this reform in its implementation segment is now being implemented independently of the law actually requires a serious review of complementarity and complementarity for a simple reason because it creates new injustices. Therefore, there is no discussion that something must be done, and in this respect it is clear that serious consideration should be given to what and in what direction further. Here's a proposal to take 15 consecutive most favourable years. Before this reform, it was 10 years ago. It may also be debated on some other basis, but it is quite certain that this issue cannot be resolved differently now, or it is not possible to leave it as it is now in force for the simple reason that it is giving birth to injustice. The second thing I'd like to say is, here is the question of disfellowshipping persons who pay pension insurance for the second pillar. I'm not sure that would be correct and consistent with the Constitution. I think, in fact, if it's a 15-year-old accounting base, then it would have to apply to everything and it wouldn't be possible to exclude a person for a second pillar. But let the motionors consider it until the final draft of the law. Of course, the question arises whether this law should or should take effect on the day of its publication in the People's Newspaper. There is no need for a simple reason because it applies from 1 January 2007. And one more thing that's important to mention. You know, pension reform is practically after '98. In practice, the year in force of the law began to apply in '99. And on and on. As time goes on, more and more weak points and problems arise from the pension reform. Obviously, correction must be made. It would be good to turn this issue into a question at the end of the country's constitutional concept and issues of national importance and interest, because it is. And make a deal about it. But it is also not good to reject the bill's proposals just because it came from the parliamentary procedure, from the opposition, to the parliamentary procedure of the opposition. I am of the opinion that this should be put into debate and that it is necessary to open up the possibility to open up the general issues that require such proposals of the law or the like, to put them in the process while individuals actually open a debate on the problem. And that's why I support my bill to proceed with the procedure, on the one hand. And on the other hand, I have one more thing to say, that as a representative, I actually regret that we have started to apply the practice that if proposals come out of the law, from the ranks of the opposition or even individual advocates that we will deliberately delay the debate on these laws. This law came into procedure on June 1st. The last one came on May 31st. We have a law that's been in the process for the second year, and they haven't discussed it yet. I think we should have equal status with all the regulations. We have made an exception when it comes to harmonising the law with the European Union. There's an exception. There's an exception when it comes to an emergency procedure. Therefore, there is no need to create in practice special exceptions, the fact that there is a business provision, in fact, where the Assembly session should last until the agenda for which it is called is exhausted. That's why I'm pleased to see that after 4, 5, almost 5 and a half months, that's why we've been able to discuss it in the first place. And at the same time it is such a problem which is practically a item of the agenda at every smaller or larger public meeting that reflects our citizens in informal meetings and gatherings. Because it's simply a matter of life in the great circle of our citizens and they are directly and indirectly much more. Because of all this, I suggest we let this law go into procedure and oblige the Proposer to eventually come up with some new data with the final draft of the law in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74471	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74472	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have heard from the motions that amendments are proposed and for what purpose, but to repeat them once again. Therefore, it is proposed that the minimum pension be determined for each year of the pension rate of 0.75% of the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in 1998 and that, instead of any consecutive one, 15 of the most favourable consecutive years and three, the provisions of this law apply only to insurance companies which have not entered the second pillar of pension insurance. We know that the lowest pension has the character of social giving based on the principle of solidarity by which giving such a nature can be determined by other standards than those that would correspond exclusively to the length of insurance investments in pension insurance during its working life. The peace reform that began in early 99 was aimed at establishing a long-term stable pension system, financially and socially sustainable compared to the system implemented by the end of 98. For such an amendment, a transitional period has also been introduced during which the new system is adapted to increase the accounting period on the basis of which the pension is calculated each year. It is clear to all of us that in the implementation of the pension reform certain shortcomings and injustices that require systematic access to resolution and we read today in the paper that the government's commission has met to solve this task. Political will exists, and it has also been proven by the return of the pensioner's debt. By adopting this proposal, the law would mean a return to the old system before the reform it had suffered as a result of the reduction of the incentives of the contributors because the amount of pensions depended only on the salaries, i.e. the basics of insurance achieved in a shorter period. So it just matters what pay was in those most favourable 10 years. We are the participants of most of us at that time and we know how the wages have increased in these recent years of internships which really wasn't real and that destroyed the pension system. The proposed way of determining pensions would also be appropriate for higher-income insurances only made during that period of 15 years. So exactly what I was talking about, which has increased disproportionately in the last few years in this period of pay. And with the disproportionately high pensions achieved for such insurance companies, it would be unfavourable to lower- and more equal-paying insurance during the working-day period. For me, one of the important reasons why I can't support this bill is that there's no calculation of how much this would burden the state budget, because this is actually an account without an innkeeper. So let me get this straight. This amendment would repeal the positive effects of the pension reform, and the state budget should provide additional substantial resources and cannot vote on the Amendment Law and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act proposed by the HSS Representatives' Club to go to a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74473	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, please welcome the honourable representative of the Sabbath.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, as legislators, we thank all those who have applied for the debate. Of course, we also thank those who did not support it, and they expressed their attitude. I would like to perhaps, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, once again emphasize two basic things that motivated us to go with amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. It's not that we're in such a hurry and we want to work things out overnight. You yourself, Mr. Pukleš, have here found that there's no point in discussing the elements we've detected. So we really know there are problems. The Croatian Party of Retired Representatives Club is in 10 years, and we are willing to accept if we so agree with other parliamentary clubs and this variant. Even better for those insurance companies who will be entitled to pension in the future. You disagree with the Swiss formula, early retirement. There are still injustices, and there are still problems to be solved by perhaps a little more overall changes and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. However, as it is written in the very reasoning of the law, we wanted to cover as few pensioners as possible with as few procedures. And it's not true that we're destroying an existing pension reform system. We're not going down. I repeat, these provisions of the law, before only 15 of the most favourable consecutive years for the calculation of pensions, refer only to those insurance companies which have not achieved and who have not been able to enter the second pillar of pension insurance. Nothing collapses. And as for the lowest pension, we just want to get back to the initial provision originally laid down in the Retirement Insurance Act in '98. Well, we've been thinking about whether to go back to the 98th year for the average gross salary of all employees. We were seriously considering it, but we wanted not to create any further discussions about it, go back to that initial position that was in the 98th Retirement Insurance Act. So we support thinking of making one analytical approach. We are in charge of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office as a Parliament to provide us with all this information that we are talking about. Well, you don't expect me to know how many people I don't know of new pensioners exactly to the number of people, how many would eventually be covered by these amendments and additions to the law. If anyone knows that, let them do their best to write such a bill, and we will surely support it. It doesn't take that long to run this complete analysis of the pension system, which he brought, where the defects are. We all know that. That's what you best know about your party. All the defects and all the things that are, which is not good, and that's why I'm surprised your club and your party don't want to support these laws that must go hand in hand to the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74475	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74476	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSS for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 65 votes in favour and 27 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74477	We move to the next - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. The proposal for a Decision was submitted in accordance with Articles 11 and 12. Law on Croatia reports news agency Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Board, representative, go ahead. Dear Representative Antunovic. It doesn't say here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74478	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 30th session held on 19 October The proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, which is in accordance with the provisions of Articles 11 and 12 of the Croatian Parliament. The law on Croatia has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the news agency by an act of 13 October 2006. On 15 October 2006, the Committee was also submitted to the Board of Directors of the Croatian News Agency Drazen Jovic, Master Dijana Katica and Master of the Board of Directors Bozo Skoko on 15 October 2006. The Committee considered that proposal a decision as a parent working body. The debate on the Committee was held shortly before the debate at the plenary session, which is why this report lacks the content of the debate on the proposal. Therefore, this report shall contain only the results of the statement and shall refer to the record of the debate which, when drawn up, will be the document from which the positions of the representatives will also be visible. Following the debate, the Committee voted individually on the resolution of each member of the HINA Governing Council. There were six votes for the resolution of God Skoka for and five abstentions. For the resolution of Diana Katica, there were six votes for and five abstentions. For the resolution of Drazen Jovic, 6 votes for and 5 abstentions and for the resolution of Ivan Rusan, who alone did not resign 6 votes for, 4 against and 1 abstention. Accordingly, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74479	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74480	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the state administration, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposal for a decision to resolve part of the Croatian news agency's Governing Council members. Why? At its meeting on 13 July 2006, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision appointing part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. With the decision to appoint the remaining fifth member of the Governing Council from the ranks of employees in Croatia to the news agency later. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered on 5 October to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency from the ranks of employees in Croatia to the very fifth member who was missing. And what's the problem? The problem is that the members of the four members of the Governing Council are not waiting for the selection and confirmation of the fifth member, they have made a decision, that is, to appoint the director of the Croatian news agency and it is actually one that can thus be said a classic example of disrespect not only of democratic procedure but it is an example of the confiscation of rights, that is, the most important, the rights of employees to have their own voice. And these are ultimately, and we are obliged to give it to them according to Article 11. The Law on the Croatian Reporting Agency, which actually deprives them of the right to decide on their own and thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the Croatian Democratic Community, rightfully considers that this makes it impossible for employees, several hundred employees in Croatia to report to the news agency, to make a decision on the appointment of directors, and thus to obtain the reasons set out in Article 13(4). Law on the Croatian Reporting Agency for the discharge of these members of the Governing Council. Therefore, we do not see in the Croatian Democratic Community any reason for the appointment of the director of the Croatian Reporting Agency so quickly, so quickly, that in that committee, there is no representative of workers, people, employees, because they are deprived of this democratic right. The following, as you yourself saw, was the Croatian Government's proposal at its meeting on 13 October 2006 to resolve the work of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports and respects all activities of HINA that act on the principles of independent, impartial and professional news-age reporting. HINA must not and will not be exposed to any influence that could compromise the accuracy, freedom, objectivity or credibility of its information. If democratic procedures are respected in the best way, Article 7. The law on Croatia's news agency achieves the public work of HINA as well as its overall independence. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club holds the responsibility of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, which is four of them for not respecting the democratic procedure. Due to all this, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposal for a decision to resolve the work of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74481	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74482	Well, first of all, it's incorrect that these are the reasons why the Council hastily appointed a director. The council didn't do anything in a hurry. It warned the government to propose a fifth member of the Council, to be complete, so that it could do its job, the government was deafening. When all the deadlines were up, when they entered... then the Council has appointed nothing in haste, but in fact in its last deadlines, and obviously without real consultations with HDZ because we now hear that HDZ as a party supports it, obviously the will of the HDZ to choose is not fulfilled, so you have to punish people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74483	For the club HNS, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74484	Thank you, Mr. President. The Croatian People's Party Club will not support something like this anyway, and I would also remind you why not. Four months ago Sanader's cabinet sent us to the Assembly a proposal to elect members of HINA's Board of Directors. In this proposal, one member was missing, and we almost all of the opposition suggested that the election of members of the Council be delayed until the employees ran for their representative because we asked why the haste, why would they make such a council? The interpretation was that it was necessary to select the director, the deadlines by pressure, it was a legal obligation, so it was spoken and explained why we had to do so and the normal majority in the Assembly chose the bridal composition of the Governing Council and that the crumbs of the Council elected the Director. They say we had to, they reiterated all the legal deadlines that, after that, Sanader at the government meeting asked for the removal of all members of the Governing Council and that the election of directors was re-elected, and now is an important reason. The administrative council was not complete, the employee's representative was missing and believed or should not have waited, regardless of the law, it would have been more democratic for the employee to decide. So, gentlemen, it's democratic to break the law, it's democratic to force the election of an incomplete governing council, it's democratic to not deliver a fifth member of the Council, it's democratic to replace those who clearly chose the wrong director and now the question is why did all this happen? At first I thought it was the pucks from Europe, I said Europe a little bit said you played a game so that we got the pucks, but then I think it can't be because Europe wouldn't say anything from stupid to stupid. Then I thought it was a store. Ide was trading, HINA or as it is now called the Croatian Democratic Community Agency, HINA to these, HTV to those, so let's say there's a trade, but I can see it's not that either. And then it seems to me, gentlemen, that it's an intra-party charge. It seems to me that the government and Parliament didn't exactly agree on everything like this, but that the government has now given the gentlemen to you in the Parliament. What do we got now? We'll get rid of these four members, select one member, and we'll have a board of one member. Beautiful. It will be as we said it at first completely and even if he could have himself that if he had a quorum bar so he could play the quorum himself so that if he suggested himself as a principal it would be ideal, but since it's not going to work, but since it's not the way gentlemen are going to make a joke out of this, I suggest you take pictures of the new director, deliver the picture to us, and that's what you're saying, we don't have to do stupid things in front of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74485	You didn't suggest whether the picture should be in black and white or color. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting a completely incorrect assumption that the government is clearly asking for something illegal from the cranial council, i.e. That he couldn't choose a director in such a piece of shit because that period of 45 days had passed and we talked about it on the Committee. No, no, you said, you just said that, we can look for a phonogram, and I'll tell you a new piece of information you obviously don't know. The deadline of 45 days was not a professional dictionary, so it was an ultimative time limit, but it was an instructional deadline that allowed the selection of this fifth member to wait. You obviously didn't know that because you weren't even interested in it and I'm going to tell you one more time it's very important to muddle the government, it's very important to say that the government is doing something out of private or I don't know what kind of interests it is. No, I don't. That's not true. The government did everything by law, and in defense of democracy, and these gentlemen in the british system could wait and no law would be broken. Have your lawyers confirm that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74487	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74488	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. So I think this is enough that the most intriguing topics come on the agenda at 1900 whether it's the State's Attorney's Office's work report or, say, HINA. But it is also enough that the entire Croatian politics of the strongest parties are blaspheming with their games about the selection of the leaders of individual media. Any appointment so far has always been a political appointment to a leading place when the media is state-run. Whether it's the "Walker," whether or not it's the election by the '90s, after '90s. After 3 January or today, it was always a political appointment. Any appointments so far, let's say, in the leading place of Croatian radio television, too, regardless of whether or not this is about '90s. After 3 January or today it was also a political choice. Any previous appointment to the head post of HINA again, whether or not it's the '90s appointments. After 3 January or today, it was also always a political choice. And if we looked at who was sitting in the top places of these institutions, whether it was HINA, whether it was Croatian radio television, it would always be possible to convince itself. Who's taking the shot? They're always taking on the strongest parties. And now the question is, this HINA Act, why should someone here even have their back? There's no need. A few months ago, Mr. Kapraljevic said four months ago, in HINA you gentlemen from this right half got rid of some people with whom I honestly never shared a political worldview but who were their own, who were authorities, like Mr. Jadranko Crnić and I don't see why I should be involved in this phase at all today. I heard the president of the CNB, Mr. Lucic, who was saying, "...the commendable decision of the government that didn't now bypass the employees who were supposed to be manifested." On the other hand, I absolutely agree with Mr. Kapraljevic that it is a clamperate couple of excellence on the failure of the government, the parliament, is not important now because obviously no request was sent in the procedure for the selection of the director or director of HINA or that fifth member of the council at the time. I could hardly believe that this team in HINA has proposed someone who is not or who would not be at the will of the HDZ political summit. ... Well, then you'll end up saying the voice of truth. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Obviously, in this particular case, HDZ has been distracted by the fact that in this famous HINA council where Mr. Russan, Bozan Skko, Diana Katica, Drazen Jovic, may have started to behave too autonomously. They may not have asked in a specific case for advice on what I find hard to believe again. Maybe someone got scared so these people could start thinking for themselves. The truth is that this move by Prime Minister Sanader is equally difficult to understand. Perhaps it is said that the sacrifice of the figure could then be acquired in quality because it is difficult to imagine that the Croatian public would not react without the deadline or that it would not react without the appointment of the director, especially if the court of employees, who in particular did not give up their own member. I said this is embarrassing a couple of excellents because someone in the government or the Parliament doesn't care who's in charge of it doesn't do the job that you're supposed to be doing. It is a problem for me as well as a constant desire to clearly influence the media, to influence news or news, and the news is a force that everyone clearly respects. Far more than what's happening, someone will say about anaemic HINA, I'm interested in opportunities on Croatian radio television. And the question is, what's going on in this country? Although I have the court and that Croatian radio-television plays it safe. The game of the strongest political options knows that one or the other will win the elections, and they will also ensure that their positions are untouchable. For the end of two more sentences about HINA. HINA was an institution, it clearly does not have the power of one Croatian radio-television, but when it comes to the media, at least this procedure should be respected. Here's the mention of "The Voice of Istria", Jakovcic, who is being stretched out because of "The Voice of Istria" where he ate neither onions nor onions. ... He didn't eat any kebabs either. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, Mr. President, it has to do with what happened there as much as putting Armstrong down on the moon. That's exactly how much. If you're interested, sir, here's Perusko Dobrila, the editor-in-chief is the son of a councilman of the SDP County Assembly. Therefore, do not implore IDS to any way that he was involved. Neither did the SDP, nor was the SDP absolutely involved in it, but if something was happening there then there was first one ownership conflict. There's Mr. Kramaric can judge it better than I can. So when HINA is here, it's about the schlamper and certainly trying to set up that council, to maybe get to a service team, maybe to a similar director, maybe not to God's haired news even though it's time to admit that HINA's been doing her job properly so far. It may also be true that here, in some ways, the HND wanted to be favored or that the prime minister did not want to argue with the HND. It is the same, but we will see how a new council will be appointed the next day, and whether a law that would absolutely put this policy influence out in any way regarding the appointment of leaders in those places will be proposed. It's for the end of it. Is this about the deal, is it about the trade, is it about the schlamper, the unbelief, the larceny? Are we going to get, as Mr. Kapraljevic says, a photograph of who we should choose to let others discuss it, but in one word, it's about indignity. I guess no one can deny it. It is simply in one serious democracy, the country cannot or should not happen. I'm not personally happy about what happened in the Voice of Istria. I'm not happy with the fate or those who may have called me and worked under quotes in my head, but I'm also convinced that this, this newspaper, is incomparable and more credible and autonomous than your HINA or some other media. ... [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74489	Everything, everything, only 10 corrections. Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74490	I'm correcting the next incorrect quote. Mr. Cain said that it is always the political appointment of chief editors, directors and so on. That's not true. We had a period in which it stopped being a political appointment, and now it's just, right now it's just that because they're not called political, they're not named political directors of these houses then they're hitting on those who name them. So here we witnessed the beating, the political beating and the beating of the HRT Council. So now it's the same with trying to change and change, and now it's also done with the HINA Council. I reserve for other things and other things to say to another discussion, but here it is about that since it has finally begun under the law to choose directors in an independent way now it is necessary to change the bodies regulatoryly that choose them. And that's the shame of this Parliament even bigger than when I say it with different tactics, these or those directors, these or those editors-in-chiefs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74491	What's the shame of the Parliament? The parliament received a proposal, a parliament, from the government. The Parliament discusses this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74492	May I answer, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74493	Don't but...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74494	The Assembly received a proposal that I was changing into elements that were known to the Assembly... /The speaker has been excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74495	The Parliament is working on its procedure. Don't say it's Parliament, the shame of the Parliament. I am as obliged as you to protect the integrity of the Parliament. The government has proposed these changes in accordance with the law, please? Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. The Parliament we leave alone in that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74497	He says a colleague of Cain's is always on TV, in HINA, and I don't know where. Two are unlike many small parties, two are large in Croatia, HDZ and SDP. I don't know about HDZ, but I do know that SDP doesn't frame. Well, if you wanted to. And if he wanted to, he couldn't do it just for that... [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74498	Okay. Permission to leave a little
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74499	I know Mr. President that you can't influence the home education of your MPs, but you can warn them as President of the Parliament that they're not savages yet until... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74500	No one's wild, please don't. No one's wild. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I ask you to allow a representative without impediment to speak what the same representative will say and another representative will allow other MPs not to speak without the incursions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74501	So if anyone wanted to, they couldn't because the HRT Council was made so that they didn't have to listen to anyone. And this has also been demonstrated in the last debate on HRT that it was necessary to attack this Council because it is independent. So Mr. Caine HRT is not the voice of Istria so that politics can do whatever it wants. [[/Intruders: Wow!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74502	Order! Order, please! Second Honored Representative Pero Lucin, please welcome Honored representative Pero Lucin, Shime Lucin, correction of the incorrect allegations. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74503	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Caine who says that this is actually an obvious situation, that it's either a trade or a cream opera or some kind of, I don't know about conflicts and so on. I really think this is a true expression of the will of the majority party. So to maintain democracy and actually legal principles. And that's what we'll see best when the new council comes into position to appoint a director, in fact, to confirm the same director elected by this Council so far. It will be the only way to actually confirm that it was really an expression of democratic will.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74504	Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74505	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain said it's hard to understand this move by Eva Sanader and that it's embarrassing. It's not difficult to understand. It's not embarrassing. It's very clear and precise what's the reason? The reason was to wait for the election of a fifth member in front of employees, but it is therefore difficult to understand that such imputements come from the party's ranks, which, based on a public statement, led to the persecution of journalists who freely thought in the Voice of Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74506	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74507	Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations by which, colleagues, colleague Caina, who says that the political appointments of directors and editors are motivated and largely conducted by two large parties. I would like to remind a respected colleague that now more if we stick to the law is not possible in accordance with the law itself than that the administrative council of HINA is doing so, or that the Council of Croatian Television is doing so on the basis of an open competition and that in this respect there is a political dimension for the appointment and such persons, but it is not a political bar if the law is respected. Number one. And number two. You say, "Your HINA." I would like to remind you that according to the Law on HINA Croatia is founded by the Republic of Croatia, so the question is, how do you treat the Republic of Croatia if this is ours, your HINA, and it is not ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74508	Dear Representative Josip Leko, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74509	Dear Mr. President, I'm correcting fellow Caine, his statement that this is a schlemper and that he's surprised at the Prime Minister how he could have made such a schlamper. First of all, this is a violation of the law, definitely, and the applicant admits it, and it defends it in a way that protects democratic standards. Do MPs think democratic standards aren't built into law? And then breaking the deadlines for proposing and breaking the deadlines by the council to ask them to do so is to bring down the standards set out in this Parliament, so the deadline in the law was too inclusive, instructive but legal. And that's the will of the legislator. That's why Prime Minister Sanader said it doesn't matter what the legislator thinks but what the government thinks is important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74510	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74511	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, the degree of democracy of society is measured by the degree of freedom of the media. Therefore, I am correcting your incorrect claim that the main media editors are being politically appointed in Croatia. The proof of that is HRT. For which reason the SDP has appointed the current HTV director, this government has not changed him because this authority respects freedom of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74512	Honorable representative Lino Cervar. Please, I can't keep track, can I?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74513	Mr. President, I must correct the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Cain who says that according to him, the voice of Istria is much more credible than your HINA. And I like Damir very much and he's nice and he's mine, but I have to say he's also clever. He imagines what he said the day after he replaced journalists and editors in the Voice of Istria, yes, he stood in their defense and that they were responsible for that quality of the Voice of Istria, while the slyman gave the second day away in the Morning List a little different, that they themselves were to blame for getting fired. So, you're a sly one, you're a sly one.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74514	Yeah, yeah, so that's it, so it's not true that he's cunning. And a respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74515	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So listen, I'm gonna do something a little repeat, so when he won't listen, he'll listen to the other one for the first time. So it's not true, Mr. Cain, that this situation, this situation, must not happen in democracy. Just the other way around, just the other way around. The government and the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, have only acted as they could, and that means democratically. Because where does it say that the Council's furry composition can choose a principal? It doesn't say anything. That's impossible, that's inadmissible. And he's just because they broke the law stopped the whole story. He stopped the whole story to vote the 5th member and that the Council would finally become competent. So it's democracy, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74516	And respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74517	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague who claims this is a disgrace, which is for sure, which is certainly not true. It would have been a shame if we hadn't protected the interests, if the government and the Parliament hadn't protected the interests of the employees, and that's exactly what you colleagues, as well as colleagues on the other side of the assembly would have claimed. Secondly, the IDS has nothing to do with the Voice of Istria. They'd believe that, too. The same night, I listened to Mr. Jakovcic's statement saying it should be done because they hadn't published an interview with them in four years. Well, so be it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74518	Yeah, yeah. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74519	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. They're falling down here hard words. It says blasphemy, printery, laxative, farce and... Excuse me? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It doesn't matter. It doesn't make up a man's suit. It makes a man's suit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I think you're actually here...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74520	Yeah, that's obvious, that's very true.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74521	... thesedays actually happens what was long described by Murphy's law when something goes wrong from the beginning then it will end even worse. And with that, we can remember what it looked like on July 14th, which I think was Thursday, the Friday when the last session in summer ended before the summer break. And then, and now we're facing this paradox that those who then attacked the administrative council to defend it today, and those who then defended it today have objections to it. And it is, and it could now be said that it is very democratic. But it shows, it shows all, very nice, I see already moving these replicas. It shows all our hypocrisy in politics. I'll say it here. There was a public vote, an individual, a pardon, a single vote, for two people I was judged to deserve my trust, for two people I was judged not to deserve my trust. No one could convince me that a porter who, of all honours and that's an honorable interest in understanding, who finished law school, would suddenly become a legal expert. I wasn't convinced of that. Like I wasn't convinced that a lady or a lady who finished veterinary school could be a financial expert. For the other two, for my fellow Jumper and fellow Russian, I raised my hand on my conscience and I thought they deserved to be members of the Administrative Council. For these two, I voted against it. But is this how we're going to solve exactly what this is, which every time something like that starts to happen, if we're going to do what went wrong at first, and eventually it's going to have to end badly. And it was just a matter of time before the board of directors played a little bit, because it gained legitimacy and played out, but apparently there are some other players in the whole game. I don't get into why employees wait to name their member. Whether he was to be appointed today, yesterday or the day before yesterday, which are all deadlines that break through or don't break through, but obviously we're entering this very interesting pre-election year, and in that year it's not bad considered, I think it's wrong to control the media. In all of us, there's this... The ghost you know. [[You don't understand.]] We like to have things under control, we like to write about us nicely, we like to keep that information in line with our picture, not our reality. My colleague, my colleague Vujic, must know that the famous Fiftva knows that who rules the signs, and that we can translate the signs into a picture, into the news, into the newspaper, that this government and people. It's quite clear and obvious that now that space,...... Fifte said that... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Too bad, wouldn't be bad. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because then it would just show up, I don't know why we're running away from these political appointments, that now all of a sudden we're feeling very unhappy when you face it like that, and then you see that it's actually mirroring one and the other that they say to themselves that they're the biggest, so when you face them that they behave equally or very much alike, then they get terribly angry, so colleague Cain gets the same number of replicas from both left and right. That might be the best proof that he's right. ... Correction of an incorrect quote, that's another way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why it seems to me, we have here a report from fellow Bolfek commended and we have said that it is HINA even in this sea of this media yellow,... When we talked about gender equality again, we brought up the Media Protection Act, but in fact we didn't install in these media that they had to protect individual citizens, so very often we're actually facing what we're afraid of and then I'd say we'd try to control it one way or another. [[You don't understand.]] Right in that story, you see in that symmetry, that's this one... The Croatian political scenes that we watch every day, open "Open" you will only see that there seem to be only two parties in this Croatia and only two truths that are actually competing in the battle for a better past and that is a fact that if you are really involved in this political game at the end you have to worry, because if nothing else I really think Croatia is much more interesting, richer and more content than those two facts. [[You don't understand.]] Take, watch "Open," watch any show actually always turns out in some way that there's just something called the left, which is called the right. I don't think that's true. The HSLS club can't participate in this. It cannot take part in this so that we can prove that we have proved once again in action the law of Marhi that something that went wrong there in July will end differently in October than how it ends. We can call it democracy, a struggle for democracy as some say, we can know it's also about violence, but actually the sequence of situations won't be for... Change. [[You don't understand.]] And actually for the end. That's why I'm saying in this kind of raving, creaming, larceny, farces we're not going to participate and not just defend my colleague Caine with regard to Istria, but really believe in the section, believe it or not, IDS doesn't have much to do with it. That's on my word, here you are as some potential or not actually potential but as these current coalition partners... really IDS in this is not too much, there are no too many fingers but it's a matter of as usual ownership relations, they actually define all problems. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74522	Thank you very much. Here is the official defender, namely the protégé of official duty, to correct the incorrect allegations of the defendant who applied for counsel. But that's right, that's life. We have six corrections of incorrect allegations, which is slightly less than 10. Dear Representative Antun Vujic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74523	Mr. President, in his otherwise extraordinary exhibition that had many amplitudes and how to say places that were inspiring, Mr. Kramaric said: "Those who attacked this council are now defending it." That's not true. Those who attacked him then and now feel the same way about the council because it is composed in an incompetent and illegal way. What they mean these days, who now speak as they say, is that the Parliament would not, apart from one shame when it chose that council, have now committed another shame when this decision, which is autonomous, is going to take it off. So that's what this is about. And otherwise, I have to warn that it's going to be, usually it's not written in these things, that it's likely to cost, because the decision of that council is also legal. It will cease to be legal only when eventually you vote that it is no longer, but the decision it has made are decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74524	The second correction, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74525	Mr. President, colleague Kramaric mentioned the word hypocrisy, hypocrisy, that sort of thing. We just don't know who he meant, whether for the left or for the right. So he meant everything. [[/Intruder: Everything.]] I don't see here actually a hypocrite on the left or on the right, this is Parliament and this is the basic rule of democracy that...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74526	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Correct the incorrect quote of MP Kramarić. ... Is he hypocritical? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74527	Well, then I didn't want anything, so I don't even have... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74528	And respected representative Zeljka Antunovic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74529	I actually want to correct the same quote as my colleague. It is incorrect that those who attacked as Mr Kramaric said, the administrative council is to defend him today. Speaking from our point of view, and I think so and from the SDP's point of view, we've never attacked nor are we now defending the administrative council. What we have pollemised, and what we have not agreed with, colleagues Kramaric, are the government's proposals, the government's arguments, both then and now, because we have held that these proposals and these arguments are neither in line with the law, nor in line with the profession, nor with the democratic standards towards which Croatia has slowly but still set out. And speaking in such a simplified way is simply not true. It is true that those who defended the administrative council today are attacking the same administrative council. I'm afraid you're right about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74530	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic, the next correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I would correct Mr Kramaric and I would say that his very skilled verbal acrobatic about the shared roles of those who were against him in July, and today they're supposed to be for and vice versa. Indeed, it is true that in July the opposition was disturbed by the veterinary and porter qualifications of the proposed members. That's what we're talking about. However, they seem to have been psychic, and they had already predicted that these various veterinarians and former porters would make one mistake and they would need to punish her. There, we're punishing her now. However, I will only warn you and Mr. Kramarić that people have no warranty like washing machines. Well, when we choose them, they must be innocuous. No, I don't. But it seems that in July we accidentally elected your candidates we would probably get a guarantee for two and four years that they would never make a mistake. Well, that's not how it works with people. I warn you again that the government has done the only thing that it could do and thus has shown only its contribution to democracy in this society, nothing else, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74532	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74533	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I like to listen to my colleague, I really enjoy it, but yet one quote is very wrong. The HSLS club does not participate in polarising the symmetry of the Croatian political scene, which is not true, because he himself said there were four, for two I was in, two against.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74534	And the esteemed representative Damir Cain, the correction of an incorrect quote. You've got a correction, you've been...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74535	Yeah. Mr. Kramaric literally said...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74536	Just don't forget your colleague Kramarić was defending you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74537	No, no. Well done, and here we go after that for a beer. Mr Kramaric says, I must quote that IDS has little to do with the Voice of Istria, but says it has nothing to do with the Voice of Istria. IDS has nothing to do with what happened there. In no way was he involved in what happened, and therefore, gentlemen or Jacob's. It may seem a little strange to you on this side right now, hanging from HINA, but it really was in Istria. I also tell you, I don't want to hurt anyone, nor anyone who might have done me any harm. So I wish everyone the best. But if you are referring to some journalists, then I assure you that a far greater number of employees may think differently...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74538	Don't limit yourself to your colleague Matusic now because you have a correction to another, you were just correcting that IDS has nothing to do with it. Nothing, right? ... And with the fact that it doesn't matter, no, it doesn't matter at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74539	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Kramaric, said those who were then defending to attack the administrative council now. No, I don't. At the time, we supported the election of members because we considered it legal, legitimate, and today we defend, we support the government's position that it should have waited for the process to be democratic. So we defend today and we don't attack anyone, we don't attack board members, we defend democratic standards. And the other thing is, the IDS had nothing to do with the shift in the Voice of Istria. A colleague, Kramaric, then, means that you are declaring liars to those journalists who have publicly said that this is exactly the work of IDS. Do you trust journalists or trust IDS politicians?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74540	Well, it's hard to believe, even belief is a hard thing. SDP's club, Honored Representative Zeljka Antunovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74541	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. My colleague Vujic tells me to say everything now, but given this time, I'm sure I'll miss a lot of important things. But it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. At this very moment, the very debate, the very situation in which we have found ourselves having this debate at all, we have found ourselves in one complicated, complex, vague, illegal, non-democratic, farsical, Lardy situation, and I don't know all the situations. True, if someone were to listen to us from the public right now, what I'm about to say would make sense. To talk about some complex, legal, democratic principles, veggies, about how it happened and try to clarify what's right here, and what's wrong, why something that got majority support in this House three months ago, today will be replaced by such majority support, would make sense to say in simple words that someone is listening to us now from the public what's actually going on here. However, I will no matter what no one listens to us try to go to the center of things right now. But before that, while fellow Cain had left, he said that they as a small party would not participate because this is actually just some kind of bickering between the two big parties, one in power, one in opposition. I'm going to disappoint him, and the SDP doesn't want to take part in it either, but we want to take part in the debate, we want to make a contribution so that no more of these farce situations are repeated. That's why we'll be abstentions in our vote. No matter how consistent we remain with all our objections which we have made the moment most of the Government's proposal to appoint these same people for whom the Government today proposes to be replaced was supported despite all our remarks. I won't waste my time repeating those remarks except I won't hear them again, but I'll say it anyway. No one in the SDP has ever dealt with individual names and questioned the dignity of individuals who have been proposed and who have been elected and who are being replaced in the same way today. We spoke of their suitability or incompatibility for a specific duty, to perform a member of the Governing Council of HINA. And because of that, if any of these individuals who have served the ruling majority, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia for some other purpose, if they have felt called and humiliated as a man, have misunderstood or received false information, it has never occurred to us that we are dealing with them either, as we do not think today that we are dealing with the name and last name of their choice, whether they have made it on their own, whether they made it by someone's order, and the taskmaster has changed his opinion only they know it, but they have made that choice and whatever they think of them we have chosen and about it cannot in the rule of law, in a democratic state be annulled by a single cry of the Prime Minister, obviously angry at the cabinet's session last week. In addition to the government's proposal, it also sent the parliament to discuss and make requests for the removal of these people, the Prime Minister told the entire Croatian public that the government is revoking their decision. That truth, there is no explanation for this shift proposal, but we have all heard it loud and clear, and that is what we in the SDP are extremely afraid of. If the law is applied, the interpretation of the law depends on the arbitral will of someone with political power and this political power concentrated in one person then this Croatia will be further away from democracy, further away from democratic freedoms and further from making up for what this same Prime Minister called a democratic deficit, and it comes down to the lack of opportunities for HINA employees to participate in the election of directors through their representative. He said earlier that several hundred HINA employees were left without their right and that the government had no choice but to undo, change people, annul the decision and give the right to the employees to participate in the re-trial and it would be even convincing that it is consistent. I'll do it, for example. here to say whether you will be so respected colleagues after I now tell you that let's say the Management Board or what it's called the HEP Supervisory Board until the day of today and all this time there is no employee representative, and that this same Supervisory Board has decided on the election of the board president, members of the administration, and that neither the Prime Minister nor you respected colleagues have asked the question of a democratic deficit or the rights of employees, this time not a few hundred, but several thousand HEP employees who, despite the fact that the law gives them the right to have their own representative on the Supervisory Board and that they have the right to take part in both the decision and the president and the members of the board have no right to do so because they are demonstrating force, power and in violation of the law, and because of nothing else, because of inconsistence. The government's explanation, including the explanation why you, support it inconclusively, and I cannot conclude that behind this farce in which we are all in some way hiding something else, something that will not be fought within the party, or the pressure of the European Union, or something that is in some way publicly speculated by colleague Kapraljevic, but something that we will probably later assume and very quickly know what it is. Something really happened, but we don't know that here, and that's probably why the government is here, and not the Administrative Council is a quick, quick, quick, whatever it is you want to make your decision, she passed it to the Parliament, which is why today we're discussing it as the 18th item of the agenda, and the decision to appoint that fifth member of the Governing Council is going to be discussed as the 36th item of the agenda, and we're probably not going to discuss it because we're not going to get to that point on the agenda, and then the way it's democratically done in the Assembly, we're going to postpone that point until the whole procedure is over and I don't even know what the proposals are going to be. members of the Governing Council, and then we will probably satisfy what should be the removal of the democratic deficit. Now the government's proposal is legal for us. It is true, the Government has the right to make observations and the observation that HINA's damage has been done by selecting the Director. However, what is unacceptable to us in the SDP is exactly the government's argument that for this alleged damage that is not justified except by the democratic deficit that it was done by yesterday's Board of Directors. It is simply not true because the Administrative Council has no responsibility because of the democratic deficit, the responsibility for the lack of representatives of HINA's staff is borne by the Government and possibly in one part of the Parliament, but I agree with Parliament's president that this time alone can formally be responsible for the damage that has been allegedly caused. Not apparently, but in one segment it was created. So wait a minute, if the Government sees this damage and wants to punish for damages or resolve the Administrative Council, if it wants to punish those responsible, then it should have resolved itself because the procedure that led to the appointment of that employee representative could have been over once and for five times, and not to say that this employee representative could have been appointed the same day that these members of the Board of Directors were appointed, that there was a will, that there was concern for the democratic procedure, that there was a will for, concerned about the right of employees to participate in the selection of directors, i.e. directors of HINA. And because of all of this, because of what I just said earlier about the inconclusive arguments in one part, because of the unacceptable, unspeakable, vague explanation that the government wants to explain to me, which is almost impossible to explain, we simply think that there is something else behind it, and that is the second attempt to achieve real political control over HINA this time as a public news agency, but not only of HINA, this surveillance is already a step by step in the "Vjesnik" as the only national daily vote, and this surveillance is slowly introduced to both HRT and public television, and that is why we have to participate in this circus, although all of us are on this or on the other side of this moment are probably not feeling well. Equally, experts who have not been elected to the board of directors feel the same way, are equally bad at feeling bigger or smaller experts who have been elected to the administrative council and who are now being replaced, as badly as the elected or unchanged director of HINA is likely to feel the same. They are all victims and there is only one vermin and guilty, and it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia who is playing class with one, class with the other, class with the law, class with democracy, class with himself loyal, hour with himself unfair people. There was a word here again from counterpart Cain that large parties politicise the issue of media and the choice of people in the media. It's not politicizing at least as far as the SDP is concerned. I'm warning you of the consequences. When we were warning, someone would say they were politicizing the "Walks" then they all kept quiet or at least they were too quiet. But today 25 people are fired from the Vesnik, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, a new list will appear with at least that much. So I'm asking if politicizing is when we're talking in advance about something that's going to happen as a result of politicisation or trying to put a political paw and political control over the media. This is just a brief reminder. It's too late when things happen to fix them and leave the impression that everything's okay. It's late. Either we stop the law being broken or we stop democratic proceedings being ignored and we don't fix them afterwards, and then we ask for applause for it. Out of the question. This is another attempt by the government to do something that is their fault, something that will not only cause HINA but also cause the entire Croatia to suffer the political scene in public harm to turn it into their merit. Well, that's not gonna happen. It can't go that way, and we're going to make every effort in the SDP to clarify who's interested in democratic procedure and who's not. And who is consistent with the preservation of democratic gains and whom they serve only for political games.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74542	Thank you. 19 and 26. It's time to report a ten-minute hearing. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74543	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Antunovic first said it was an illegal, non-democratic procedure, etc. Government. She was counting. That's not true. But she fixed it herself later and said it was a legal procedure that the government carried out. The second thing she said, which is completely incorrect, is that this is how she's trying to actually exercise political control over HINA as allegedly carried out over the "Vesenik" and, as she allegedly said, is being conducted on HTV. It's simply not true, there's not one fact that would have contributed to that. It is clear to me that she is a coworker of the lead-time party and that they understand the system of how people have set themselves up in political likeness. However, there are neither such attempts nor will anyone conduct them at the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74544	The second amendment. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74545	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to correct Mrs. Antunovic. The same thing Frano said, she spoke undemocraticly, etc., attacked democratic freedoms, said for 3 months, after 3 months, the council changed, etc. As I recall during your government the Constitution has changed in 3 months twice or in 6 months it has been changed twice and perhaps 3 times. Well, as far as I see it, Mrs. Antunovic herself has confessed to respecting herself. It is therefore difficult to correct everything Mrs. Antunovic said about the government being a pest. I think there is also one hate speech against HDZ and the government in the way Mrs. Antunovic speaks, and I don't think it really leads anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74546	Third Amendment. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja-Martičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74547	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you see, unfortunately, I can't, under the correction of an incorrect quote, put this very explicit theory of conspiracy and conspiracy that Mrs. Antunovic has as some kind of oatmeal owl predicts us. So now we're going to do it and the Vesnik, so we don't know where, so we're going to do it all together, and she predicts it just as she predicted, of course, that these elected members of the board of directors of HINA will just be bad, so we're going to have to replace them. But there's one thing I can do for you, and if you don't believe me, listen to your phonogram. You said that in the SDP, no one ever dealt with individuals from the then-proposed board of directors. It's simply not true not to say it's false. That's what the press heard back then. You've been dealing with gentlemen, one lady who's a vet, and that's why she couldn't have been a marketing expert, although in the biography she said she was involved in these things. And then you were against also one person because she used to be a porter in HINA and then she ended up with her efforts with porting and law and you objected that he couldn't be a legal expert because there was a young man and he just graduated.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74548	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74549	And now I'm going to give you, just a little bit...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74550	Now we can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74551	All right, all right. I'll take it one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74552	Yeah. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74553	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm quoting to my colleague: "...we've never dealt with humans but with their competence, their suitability, the suitability for their duty." And then from their ranks we heard from a fellow sitting here. Well, we've heard a lot of understatement, and this one was a porter, this one's a vet, so what else is it than dealing with people, making fun of people, it's certainly dealing with people. At the same time, a colleague is neither a journalist, nor a politician, nor an informer, so the chairman of the Committee on Information and Information and Media, and we have never said that it is not appropriate for this duty. That's one thing. Second. ... And secondly, I must say, as far as democracy is concerned, we've heard of a change in the Constitution before, if you had had time, we would have changed the Constitution ten more times until it resembles the Statute of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[All right, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74554	Come on, pals, but this is really, really with this, with this, colleague Antunović with this that it's not even for a good day... Well... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I have private reasons.]] Private Reasons [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The edge of Clem, the correction of the inaccuracies. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74557	I am correcting Mrs. Zeljke Antunovic's incorrect allegations that the democratic procedure was not respected. The democratic procedure was highly respected because if democratic procedures were not followed, they would probably discuss HINA at a different level today. Another false assumption is that the government can resolve itself. Mrs Antunović, you should know that the government can either resolve the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian people in the elections. So it's not exactly an assumption that the government can resolve itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74558	It's an HSS rep club. Dear Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74559	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, that's when the topic is the media, so if it comes to the Croatian news agency, the debate is bitter and there is no shortage of both the file and the good proposals, and I am on the Committee for that very reason and I have made a proposal that is very unusual. We've just had a situation to resolve one member, to resolve three members of the Board of Directors. At the same time, we can appoint a member of the Governing Council who we could appoint a note of the Bene long ago, together with all the members of the Council. There was also a decision by the Workers' Council on the candidate, the truth may have been incorrectly formulated. If you did not know in this proposal, it was said that the Working Council appointed a member, a new member of the Governing Council of HINA. The contest was annulled and it was lost for several months because it was the same, the same body again appointed the same member and, of course, late with the candidacy, which was enough to elect a new director without that candidate. I am in a joke to bring the matter to absurdity, saying: "If we now resolve three members and a fourth member who has not resigned, and we appoint one member, given that the agenda item on the Committee has been the appointment of that member of staff, I have suggested that we appoint him. Let's suggest his appointment and get him to the next point where we're looking for a solution to all those before the four of us to get rid of him, too. It's simple to bring things to absurdity and say, "There's no simple governing council," because one, one member of the Board of Directors, and he was even an employee, doesn't mean anything. A fellow Capraljević said. It may even be that the Statute, I'm not quite sure and I'm not a legal expert and it's possible that this same member, regardless of the lack of quorum, calls himself a quorum and chooses himself perhaps as director of HINA. Of course, it was all an absurd situation we didn't want to be in and we didn't have to bring in that we were a little wiser when we called it just a council. To prove that it is not a pure democratic deficit, as counterpart Antunovic said, I will use simple mathematics. I'm here, I'm pretty good here and I'm better than maybe politics, so I'm going to try to say on this simple mathematical example that actually the government would have been put in a very awkward position that by any chance a representative of the Council of Workers' Council had been elected earlier and participated. Because if the body did make four members what did the fifth member decide? It wasn't an undecided outcome. If the result was 2:2 then he could absolutely influence the selection of directors. And since he was not the result of the undecided and because no decision was made, then the fifth member was completely too high to make the final decision. True, it can be talked about the democratic deficit because indeed the employee's representative was not in the Council. But no doubt he would have had no effect on the choice of director of HINA himself. Unfortunately, he wouldn't, because the result would have to be 2:2, and in order for him to judge as a fifth member. No, no, I'm sorry. I'm sure that's why this decision wasn't made. I'm absolutely sure. That's logic, that's unfortunately so. Why is that? We're not too happy. I'm not one of those guys who's been dealing with these issues a lot. We in the HSS have very rarely come to the opportunity to appoint or propose our members for representatives of such high bodies especially when it comes to the media but we are interested in it being in accordance with all the positive laws. To respect democratic procedures. To be fair to the law. That all elements in the law are fully respected and that in this way try to strengthen the actual quality that is necessary for each job and especially for such a very important job as the director of the Croatian News Agency. I can't agree with some of the colleagues who say so how you were psychic, so you predicted that the existing council would make bad decisions and why you were in some way restrained even though some of us accepted certain candidacys. But did colleagues rightly warn of incompetence, incompetence, warn in a law that says exactly what qualifications? What kind of expert does he make? How is a certain member of the Council running? Some, like now, tried to caricate it a little bit, so they said we'd belittled some of the calls. No, I don't think anyone's been arguing that way. It has been said that simply one expert in a particular area cannot, unfortunately, be fully qualified to be a representative of one body that deals entirely with another area. And that's legitimate. I mean, I'm sorry, why don't you point that out? I don't know anything about medicine, so when I cut myself a little bit, I'm going to see a doctor right away. I wouldn't dare solve the problem alone. And then it was explained that it was irrelevant, how people were fully qualified and for the gentleman concerned I remember for two, Drazen Jovic, if we were to speak with names we also warned that there was a young lawyer that on the list of candidates for the Administrative Council of HINA there were very prominent citizens, qualified lawyers, constitutional judges, I don't already know who. But no, they wanted to choose by any means the body they chose. So be it. It's still a democratic right, I have nothing against it. I don't think since the election, no one's ever called that council or that body to do anything wrong or that it worked the wrong way. But here are the people who weren't exactly willing to do what some of us wanted to do, and they're going to make a decision that doesn't like someone who expected a different decision. And that's obviously the only real reason people change. I don't think that's the best way, if that's not what everybody wants. No matter who was for them then, who's against them now. No one is against them then nor now, we wanted the procedure to be respected, that democratic standards were respected to lead to a quality solution and we believed that their decision and their work would be completely independent and independent. Then someone made a decision that was not in line with the thinking of certain people who thought they could do anything. The decision shall be taken within one day and the whole of the Council shall be resolved. That's certainly not the best way. He may even be legitimate, he probably has a basis in everything, in law. But I have to say, we don't like that kind of work in HSS. We'd love to, we'd like it to be different, if the director had been chosen, if he had been given a chance no matter who it was to show in action whether he was the one who could manage the agency, whether he wanted it rightly, if he had any shortcomings in everything that would come out quickly. But no. It is easy to make decisions on the same day that the whole Council must be replaced. As you do, here I am for a while in politics, unfortunately I don't believe anything in politics happens by chance. But this time I'll still be open to that possibility. Unfortunately, if I remember correctly, my colleagues said 14, it seems to me that the Council's election took place on 13th, and that the Council's resolution also took place 13. I'm going to believe this time that it's an evil fate on the 13th date, not some more serious reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74560	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74561	Mr. President, fellow Roic, it is not true that you are credible in all cases and at all times. Today you speak, quote, you were disturbed by Mr. Jovic and his profession, that is, before the porter, and after the lawyer. At the time of the coalition government, you didn't mind a former colleague of the defence minister when she was appointed president of the Vesnik Supervisory Board, in your time. You talked about her differently then. So that's the profession, the secretary of defense flies at moments and the chairman of the Vesnik Supervisory Board. I know everything, I know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74562	Okay. We're going to an individual debate now. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74563	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say, I feel uncomfortable about this subject. I'm a bit of a flurry, and you could say I'm even a little disgusted. I must tell you that illegality is never good to correct in the new law. That's the first one. Secondly, what I must say publicly about this fact is that the members of the Governing Council of HINA have not been elected in accordance with Article 11 of the Law, it has been warned. And what I expected to get at this session of the Parliament was possibly the opinion of the competent ministry, which, in accordance with Article 31, should have been supervised by the legality of the work of HINA and the general acts published, carried out by the competent ministries. Whether the Administrative Council was legally appointed, this should have been discussed eventually after all those things and remarks being made in the Assembly. The second thing I have to say is the fact that the speed, and the avoidance of the work of the competent authorities, amazes me by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A colleague of mine is not concerned with any legal basis referred to in Article 13(4), as stated here in the explanation, which is to cause more damage to HINA by his work. The election process itself can be assessed whether it has been legally implemented or not, work rather than damage. The damage was not yet possible, no duty was taken, nothing was working. It was therefore necessary to wait here for the Government to have the competent ministry, as well as for the case where the working council appointed a worker representative to the Administrative Council to monitor whether this is a legal decision and a legally based decision. So if it's not justified and if there's been a violation of the law of that nature, then suggest that the government initiate the resolution procedure. The government did not do so but immediately called for a general formulation, a greater damage which, of course, could not be measured or qualified for this reason for a simple reason because there is no record of it. Second, third of all, it's important. The same day the Council was elected, and I am talking about the elected director's person that day, the government made a decision to initiate the resolution procedure and sent the proposal to the Assembly and the same day, it already moved the material towards the MPs, all 13. That's an incredible speed. Obviously, other motives, not respect for the law, appear to be behind it. I've shown... And in such a situation, it is quite clear, among other things, that the statement that the elected term ceases and that the government has made a decision to resolve, although it does not say here that the elected person does not stand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The board of directors has chosen, the second is the principal. The second question is why it happened and whose failure happened that the Administrative Council did not have a 5th member from that work representative. Dear colleagues, the Assembly is being circled by material from HINA signed by HINA workers and employees from whom it is evident that the working council has appointed by its own authority, that the Ministry of Culture has asked to call it off, that petition workers have asked that the representative appointed unanimously by the working council, although one claims that he did not vote for it because he could not also vote to call it off without practically taking action in time. All this happened early, at the end of the 4th and 6th months, so there was time for measures to be taken to propose a worker representative at the time of the 7th month. It's all not delayed. It was very interesting that a person allegedly disagreed with in HINA to be a representative is now appearing among other things as a possible candidate for the Administrative Council of HINA, and it should be recalled that even the Government's Office for Law has given an interpretation of how and which law applies to the selection of HINA members from the Workers' Board. All this shows in fact that it is a big game that is both in HINA and outside HINA. It is not good because it destabilises a news agency that collects and sorts and naturally provides all users with information within our news market. We have to take care of it. That's why I'm unhappy, I have to say that I'm a little bit sad because it doesn't contribute to freedom of the media. This will not contribute to quality, so if you want a higher standard of understanding democracy in Croatia. This issue will be made safe in public and even outside Croatia will be treated as a blow to the media. Be safe. And that's why we're gonna pay everybody, and that's not good. It's really not good and it's too bad, it can't happen. I don't know why, who needs to be disobeyed by the law. If Article 31 explicitly states that the supervision of the law of the work of HINA and the general acts is carried out by the competent ministries, which did not wait for the competent ministry to look, so if the Director's Selection Act is violated, then there will be the basis for the resolution of the administrative council, possibly Article 13(3), which says that if it hurts more or more times the law and other regulations relating to the operation and operation of HINA, then we will resolve it in such a way, and we will not talk about the great damage it has not done because it has not yet taken office or anything else. The one who prepared this for the Government of the Republic of Croatia as if it were misleading her. I mean this explanation, I don't mean the decision. The decision was taken in the second place, and no, the argument only needed to fulfil the subsequent political task. So I think we need to be quite serious about all this. One more thing that surprised me. I'm surprised that after something else happened, that members of the HINA Management Council from any initiative, I won't even enter the initiative, a day or two after the government has initiated their resolution due to the great damage, resigned from the motion, or sent a letter supplementing the argument or requesting a resolution which is normal for legal reasons. Why talk about the damage it doesn't have. After all, likely if no one else may try to preserve their position, they will lead the dispute and prove that he is legally appointed. Then what are we going to do, the chosen one? I believe that this is not good, and it is not good, especially when it comes to the fact that in the last session, so in the last session, we appointed the Administrative Council of HINA, that at the next session, we are now, this session, resolving this council of HINA, among other things, because it has damaged the selection of directors whose illegality of the selection procedure has not been established by the competent authority that we have passed power on to day... So, colleagues, there's really a question about where it's going. [[You don't understand.]] One of the reasons for my revolt is that I did not then take part in the vote on these laws for a simple reason because I don't think it makes any sense not to comply with the provisions on which certain qualifications and certain legal protection are sought in the election of the HINA Governance Council and otherwise other laws when such similar bodies are involved. If we didn't respect it, I wasn't involved back then, but how to participate in this now. So you can't participate, it would make sense to me that the government was looking for arguments after eventually getting additional warnings from other places that perhaps it wasn't the administrative council of HINA really appointed in accordance with the law and not because of the procedure that the Assembly or someone was wrong, but because of the misapplication of the material law of Article 11 of the Law. But colleagues go about it this way because of the injury, causing damage to the appointment of the majority director, and it says that the quorum has a majority of the members of the board and makes a decision for most of the present then it is indeed a question that although I am saddened that the representatives of the board of directors do not have and for this not guilty working council, guilty among others and government, which is not based on the findings she identified amongst others, and I will tell you when, the competent ministry which nicely on 24 May 2006, gave them a ur number: 532-10-03/1-06-02 to inform the working council that they cannot appoint a representative to the administrative council of HINA and that they must respect it, and before that, the Office of Law gave them how to work. So why didn't the Government, based on such a finding by our ministry, the ministry it controls, whose minister was a member of the government, take steps to make certain errors in the work of the working council on the one hand and on the other hand the workers themselves and on the third hand receive an appropriate proposal that could have been sent in the 7th month along with those of the other 4 names... The Board of Directors. [[You don't understand.]] All of this shows, in fact, there are a whole series of steps that are wrong and that throw very much at me an ugly light on this whole procedure and on this whole procedure and all of this makes me feel bad and I'm not going to take part in voting around this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74564	Replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74565	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there are some things I'd like to make clear. The government's proposal to replace members of the council from the government to the Parliament came only four hours after the cabinet's meeting. So it's not very stretchy... In four hours they delivered it to you, but at the same time the proposal for the fifth member of the council from the government to the Parliament traveled four months. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74566	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74567	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, it's just as it's been said, it's been kind of weird going around here. You remember that violent way that it actually tried to push that administrative council through the Parliament first, so we stood up and went outside, went back inside, and finally the procedure was kind of respected. It was seen that there were some tensions that had to be negatively reflected in the whole thing and they reflected. What kind of situation do we have now? I don't know if it's possible by law, what kind of situation we're going to bring to HINA tomorrow afternoon. HINA will not have an administrative council tomorrow afternoon, will have one member alone and will have a director elected by the Board of Directors who has been legally elected. There's nothing anyone can do against the fact that the director is legally elected and if that director will, it can make life worse for both HINA and everyone around HINA. Now, why are they being replaced? The government's explanation for the damage they've done. I don't see what damage was done at least no figures, I suppose it's not a moral damage, but the prime minister said nicely on television, loudly and loudly, that they've torn down the democratic procedure mostly to bring down those Croatian democracies. The administrative council of HINA in the brittle composition has torn down Croatian democracy. Oh, come on, and that's what the prime minister says on the TV log. No matter what, a soldier about the shorts. There's a sequel, but it's not for this place. How did they bring down Croatian democracy? They destroyed Croatian democracy by respecting Croatian laws. The law states that, the HINA Act, the Administrative Council must appoint a director within 45 days. They did it. So they respected the laws and thus destroyed democracy. This reminded me of the expression of one of the other leaders of Croatia from all other peoples and peoples, when he said, "Don't stick to the law like a drunk float, so there are higher interests." Every time someone mentions more of the interests of the law and of the letters of the laws passed in this House, they work directly against the interests of the Republic of Croatia and against the interests of the Croatian people. There's no higher interest. There are no higher democratic interests. No higher class interests. There are no higher national interests. The highest interest of the Croatian people is expressed through the laws voted in this House. It is said, if the prime minister really thinks that people have been breaking democratic gains, democratic procedure, democracy in Croatia, the question is whether the prime minister is even clear about what democracy is. There's no complicated definition of democracy. Democracy is keeping the rules of the game, rules of the game are the laws we have voted here. And that's all. Nothing else. So, keeping the rules of the game that have been translated into Croatian laws. If we don't stick to these rules of the game, then we'll bring down democracy. The question why hasn't an additional member been selected before? It's because of the clumsyness, the flimsiness, or the intentional. Or on purpose so that a situation like this could be sparked, so that there could be another scandal in Croatia, that those previous scandals might be forgotten, that we go from scandal to scandal and in fact disgust our citizens' political lives, that they can't say so they can't do anything calmly and normally, but nothing, just out of scandal into scandal jumps, better not to have a job and better to those future elections and not to go out. What we're going to go out and they're all the same, they're all doing the same scandals. If, on the other hand, all of this is sparked because the guilty principal is elected, so maybe that picture of her colleague Kapraljevic would be welcome to come here, too, to know who should be elected and not to mess with the democratic procedure in this manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74568	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74569	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague first said that we witnessed a violent attempt at appointments. Well, then later I corrected myself, so it's completely incorrect, but I've made it right, and I've said that the procedure was respected, that it was all right, right? And the second incorrectly said that the prime minister said that members of the governing council are destroying democracy. He said that they, proposing their shift due to a democratic deficit, are not the same, Mr Vuljanic. You need to listen a little more carefully and don't impute anything he's never said. And the democratic deficit is reflected in the fact that there was no waiting for the fifth member representing the employees. Well, I mean, there's a thing quite clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74570	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74571	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To me today, the most touching thing was to listen to Mr. Lina Cervar praise the government. And why does he praise the government so much? He praises her for asking the government of him and the entire HDZ club, the parliamentary majority, to change its mind. They thought one thing four months ago, they think it's completely different today. Lino Cervar and the entire HDZ club are enthusiastically kissing the hand that shows them in which direction they must go and how they must think. And even when that hand shows completely different directions in a very short time. I know the club can be found in an awkward situation. If the government were to make a mistake, it happened that the government was wrong and that Parliament's decisions should now cover such a mistake. I can understand that. But I can't understand this enthusiasm, this constant praise of the wisdom of the government that asked us to four months ago believe that these people are phenomenal, much better, for example, than the Jadranka Crnić you replaced, the judge of the Constitutional Court. And today these people are your worst. And they need to be replaced. So change them by the parliamentary majority's decision, but for God's sake, for your sakes, for this House's sake, for the work you're doing, don't do it with such enthusiasm. What else does the government ask of you? The prime minister says this is a deficit of democracy, this decision of the administrative council. And what does he ask of you? A deficit of intellectualism. And you agree to that. Because look at the decisions we're about to make, or you. You'll change four, you'll name one. That's what you're asked to do. The council's going to be a little bit more scrawny again than it's ever been before. So what's that for? Well, you're a parliamentary club, you're chosen by this people, so why don't you tell that government so don't make fun of us. Don't make fun of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74572	Comrade Trackman, allow me. In this way about one club, about any club, in this case about the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in this way, it is an offensive way.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74573	Insulting? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74574	...about one collectiveity, you one collectiveity, one club of representatives of one party declaring it, imputing it to prepare for a lack, a deficit of intellectualism that it is prepared for, it is offensive, it is offensive please see. And please don't, the government is asking us as Parliament to disband the HINA Council and appoint only one member. That one member will not represent the HINA Council. She's asking us to do something extremely illogical. And forgive me, if this body is made up of elected representatives of the citizens of this country then she should have the guts of Mr. President of the Parliament headed by you to make such a request, an illogical request... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's a good thing you're prejudicing the same thing to me right now, you're imputing my absence.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74576	I explain the loops. I'm not just explaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74577	Then why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74578	Because you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74579	What's that for? so as not to interrupt you when it is a demeaning, but prejudication, demeaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74580	And you're not demeaning what the government is asking us to do?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74581	... What the government is looking for, but you do if. ... [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Comrade Stazic, if, please stop. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And do you not see for yourself how incorrect it is to impute the President of the Croatian Parliament in advance, regardless of who the president is and one club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74582	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74583	No, no, I have to, I have to give you an explanation that you are belittling and you will listen to this argument peacefully and with dignity, and I will kindly warn you once more, I will warn you once again to stick to the usual rules of conduct in this House and not go to insults and assumed insults to me or any club or representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74584	What exactly happened here? It happened that some Council was appointed which, despite all the objections that should not have been appointed, despite the fact that better people could be found, qualified for this job either by the political majority's will and this Council came into a very strange situation. It's been 45 days or how long to choose a director, it came in... If he doesn't choose him, he'll break the law, and if he chooses, he'll show a democratic deficit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does the Council decide? Watch out for the stupid situation. Imagine yourself in such a situation. What does the Council decide? It decides to obey the law, and the prime minister says no wrong, you shouldn't have obeyed the law, you should have broken it. And now that the Council has respected the law, it is now up to the Council to be resolved. What exactly happened here? That's what happened, says the prime minister, the damage is done. The only thing that's damaged here is I think the vanity of the Prime Minister. She suffered damage. Apparently, there was some kind of misunderstanding in communication, so the Council didn't choose the one the prime minister wanted elected for. Obviously, because the prime minister's evidence of what I'm saying, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, is that the Prime Minister is saying and repealing the Council's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74585	What are you apostropheing me for?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74586	No, I have to talk to you. I speak in my speech to the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74587	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74588	So you know... in the English Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74589	I know, I heard, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74590	Well, that's what I'm talking to you for, Mr. President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74591	I'm not forgetful, but you're not talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74592	Well, I didn't insult you with that, did I?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74593	No, no, but it's unusual for you to address me with certain beliefs and credentials of your own. ... Although I don't mind you calling me all the time. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74594	Well, I'll try to make it as often as possible. So there's been some misunderstanding. Not the one the prime minister obviously wanted and now, what's going on? Now they're making up reasons. Now it's some kind of council that's made some kind of autonomous decision, so now what kind of good, bad, bad, I don't know, we haven't even got a chance to see if it's a good one or a bad one. It's a shame. Where's the damage? So the new principal hasn't even taken office, what damage can she possibly do? The damage will be the same. You know, if that elected principal insists she's been chosen and has a administrative dispute, then she's looking for some damage, then there's gonna be damage. And who's to blame for the damage? This government. This government has not prepared all the instruments in time for this, this procedure to ultimately implement its political will in a legal and orderly manner. What bothers me personally, Mr. President of the Parliament, is that it involves the entire Parliament. Please, the Government has the right to propose laws, so let it propose amendments to the HINA Act and let it introduce in these amendments that the Government appoints the Director of HINA and final. You will as a majority accept and resolve a matter, a settled matter so the government will name itself and healthy, but because the government has a deficit and democracy and procedures and respect of deadlines it now brings the entire Parliament to an awful stupid situation that it must accept or... To vote against illogical decisions, em makes us change your opinion in front of the whole public as a windscreen in the wind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74595	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74596	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Stazic, it is not true that the government is asking us to change our mind within 4 months. Absolutely not. Secondly, it is not true that the prime minister has questioned members of the Governing Council to break the law or, as you said, that they do not comply with democratic standards, i.e. fall into a democratic deficit. In fact, he did not force them to break the law, and you know it well because you know that a period of 45 days means that the director was elected after 60 days to make that decision, and you know very well that this is a period of 45 days which does not mean that she has to choose within that time limit, but it is an instructive time limit, which means that even after that deadline, the decision would be valid. That's what this is about. Therefore, the prime minister did not force anyone to break the law because under the same law it could wait 60 days after the deadline and choose on the basis of the law to make a decision on the election of the director. Therefore, do not speak falsely, do not deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74597	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74598	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, of course I'm going to correct the false allegations of some possible deficit of intellectualism. I must say that the intellectualism surplus is acceptable to us especially here is an example of a colleague who is here in the Parliament a great anti-corruption fighter and as chairman of the Commission the greatest protector of corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74599	Third Amendment. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja-Martinčević. ... This is what you heard. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's hard. [[Intruder: Take a phonogram.]] It's a little late now. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Any minute now. [[Intruder: Take a phonogram.]] And it can rise, at any moment it can rise. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74600	I, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ask you for an explanation because you are obliged to give it. You don't have to give me an explanation when I'm not asking you for it, which I do regularly and now I'm asking. Please explain to me this offensive remark that a member of the board is the protector of corruption. This is the President of the Commission. And that it's about the president of a committee here, one body, Mr. Leco. ... [[Intruder: And that's about intellectualism.]] Please explain that offensive remark to me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74601	Okay. First. Okay. Unfortunately, I won't be able to explain anything to you because you haven't indicated what would have been the regulation of the Rules of Procedure that would have been harmed. You have a warning because that's how you acted. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go. The same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74602	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You have violated the provision of Article 214(1) of the fourth indent, and I quote: "Advocacy shall be given if it comes to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, correction of an incorrect statement, and it shall begin to speak of another subject which it has not received." ... Please! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me! He got the word but it was not about protecting corruption, but it was about selecting the governing council and repealing the decisions made by this House. ... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, be brave and apply the Rules of Procedure, do not die. Don't let the Rules of Procedure die. That's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74603	And there is a colleague in Article 209 very precisely as required by the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, as she explains, and Mr Stazic did not do what was undeniable. Therefore, none of the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja-Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74604	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's a colleague of the Stazic. You said the government had a democratic...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74605	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74606	The deficit. That's not true. The damage is a democratic deficit, and that's what the prime minister wanted to prevent and prevent. But now I'm going to take over from Mrs. Antunovic, that mean owl, so I'm going to ask myself this question. What if the prime minister hadn't done it and didn't stop it?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74607	My colleague Martincevic!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74608	Then you'd charge him with supporting the lawlessness...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74609	My colleague Martincevic! Please correct the incorrect quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74610	Well, I fixed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74611	To a representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74612	Well, I fixed it. I said Mr. Stazic said the government has a democratic deficit which is not true. The democratic deficit is in the democratic deficit. That's too bad, and that's what the prime minister wanted to stop because if he hadn't, then you'd have attacked him why he didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74613	Okay. 'Cause that's the other one, right? Replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74614	Yeah. Mr. President. A fellow Stazic. You have well noticed that the prime minister sought confidence from the parliamentary majority when proposing the appointment of the Governing Council of HINA, and that confidence was demanded by Bianca and absolutely. The government is consistent. It also requires that when it resolves the same trust, Bianca and consistently. What's the government not consistent with? Unfortunately, she used that folk proverb when she proposed it was too much trust to be called naive, and when she suggested too much mistrust, it was an accident for us and for the council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74615	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74616	Excuse me, colleague Leko. I couldn't agree with you if the government wasn't consistent. I think the government is very consistent. She consistently proposed members of the council who she was convinced would vote on the director the prime minister wants. Since this did not happen then, the government has very consistently replaced the same council members to carry out the will of the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74617	Another replica, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74618	Your Honor, Mr. Stazic. You've implicated a lot in your presentation, but the fact is that the democratic deficit is said to be established in the government has actually been determined by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's saying. We just heard from our colleague Arlovic's statement that the whole series of steps that were to happen in order to determine at all that the government had so far so far failed to establish means that it was actually the Prime Minister's conclusion but you didn't blow up an important fact I have to admit that I've missed it so far. And that's actually the main responsibility of this whole mess at one of the resolute ministries that should have been conducted and implemented. But that's what the ministry was supposed to warn the Prime Minister who's been calling himself here all day today and maybe he's neither guilty nor obliged. The Prime Minister was to be warned that the election would take place and that elections would take place with a democratic deficit. It should be warned that this administrative council, which is deficiting in democracy, will therefore be replaced, demanded that in time it be required that 5 members be appointed, that the staff representatives should be appointed. I guess it didn't pass to the rest of the ministry or the Secretary of Resort, but they seem to have played a nasty game with their Prime Minister, and I'm sorry to be looking at the wrong person, but behind my back is...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74619	What wrong person? You're looking at me! It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74620	Today, representatives of the ministry sit here and keep quiet about being asked to name them. They're calling it the fifth. And here we are fighting left-to-right, calling the prime minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74621	There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74622	We're looking for who's responsible, and it looks like someone else is responsible, and maybe we should look for a solution to some other people.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74623	I can protect the Ministry of Culture... /The speakers speak out loud./...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74624	You can, but after five minutes. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74625	Dear counterpart Antunovic, you see the Ministry of Culture, the culture minister, all that he wanted to do was simply have no time because he was constantly on his way with the prime minister, so he didn't have time to deal with it. He's involved in photographing the Prime Minister on the roads. That's his chief minister's job. We see that every day on TV. And hold the umbrella prime minister. That's his, that's why he's getting paid. So the man simply didn't arrive, and I have an understanding of that since he's on his way. Secondly, be careful if you are certain that despite being constantly with the prime minister on the road, he knew who the Council would choose and that he would not respect the will of the prime minister or perhaps the changed will of the prime minister failed to know and failed to report it to the ministry. So things are complicated, you know, and I wouldn't be putting all the blame on a poor minister who travels around and doesn't get to do his jobs. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74626	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, the HNS Club. Five minutes of debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74627	Thank you, Mr. President. So here we are today in the debate there have been some strange things and lunches at the expense of the Parliament. I must say, neither the President nor the Parliament went outside the procedure. I was present when the president, did not allow violence in Parliament. I know it's an hour and more waiting to be a quorum and make the decision legal. So I want to separate what is the government's fault and what is the Parliament's fault. In this case, there's no fault of ours. And as far as I'm not going to talk much more about HINA at all, I would just like to set another example and ask the prime minister to prevent a democratic deficit in Croatian waters. In the Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74628	What will the prime minister prevent now regarding the Governing Council of HINA and Croatian Water?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74629	Can I make a parallel?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74630	Don't make those parallels. Then you will go to the parallel with the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74631	No, I'm not going at all. I'll go to another parallel.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74632	With Croatian roads, with forests and mountains. Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74633	Neither in Croatian waters nor in Croatian waters there are representatives of staff in the Governing Council, and if, although we know that the Law on Croatian Waters has been adopted, it should have been brought, so here I call on the prime minister to prevent this democratic deficit from preventing this from happening in HINA as well...
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74634	Okay, and for the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Jagoda Maja-Martincevic, a five-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74635	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not gonna use the full five minutes because I don't think that's necessary. We've heard everything here today. I have to say, I mean, on this side, it's neither guilt nor debt. The most important thing is that simply our opposition colleagues do not respond when they think with their own head and say that someone has sinned, even if they have been chosen from us. Because in that former system, people in office were able to get into trouble and they hadn't moved for almost a century. Now, other times have come and today when we are trying to defend perhaps this fragile democracy today is declared a farce and I don't know what. I don't think that's a problem. I heard someone threw it here that, of course, HINA made violence against HINA, but... What happened on HRT, I wouldn't say it was violence anywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Neither in HINA nor in HRT nor in Vjesnik, nor will it be. We just need to learn real democracy, and that means that if someone, even if they're your unloved prime minister, tries to do something good. He tried to let us all know that he wouldn't respect such a way of choosing not to be strange to you but to accept it as normal as you would probably accept it if it had come from your side when you weren't an opposition, but it didn't come because then democracy wasn't there. That's what the Croatian Democratic Community Club thinks. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Bravo Jagoda!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74636	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74637	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect allegations when my colleague said, "Although he was your unkind prime minister." I like my prime minister. [[- Insect: Bravo!]] [[Intruder: Applause!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74638	It is a solemn obligation and a statement that should be appreciated and respected that a respected representative has expressed his fondness for the prime minister. ... And, important progress, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Antun Vujic, a five-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74639	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs. Of course, this is all that's happened has such a shape that we could laugh a lot and laugh. Sadly, it is not always a pleasure to be alone during the session and the satisfaction that might justify us in front of those who view those who are responsible for some matters. Here they are done, I will repeat them several serious gaffs and damages to say in the development of democracy in Croatia, and I especially mean the role of the media. First of all, we voted on the opposition's warning against a council that, from the point of view of the law, is illegal because, not because someone is a porter or a veterinarian, but because it does not meet the conditions of the competition accepted. And then to put it this way almost immediately after that, the Council had to be one of the decisions that came vehemently by the government suspended because it chose or proposed the wrong candidate. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the SDP club, what should actually be brought back to life, and these are regulatory bodies in the media field, they fail to revive the attacks on them. The attacks on the HRT Council have already been well known. However, it has become so firm that it is now difficult to touch. But the attacks on this fragile council that was set up in a way that the opposition opposed, but still when it started to act somehow acted or decided something, decided in one second different than it may have received notice that a different decision should be made shows that what we created is extremely fragile and that we cannot be satisfied with the stabilisation of regulatory bodies related to media space. There is one thing that is more relevant to this than all of our discussions, which is something that we have had the opportunity to read in some media, and that is that the President of the Republic and the President of the State have agreed on certain functions related to the media, which are therefore primarily about television. We should send a message from this pay phone to all those regulatory authorities whether or not it changes them, but while they are. That they cannot depend not on what the parties have agreed, whether they or they, but not on what the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister may have agreed, or may not have agreed, but are thus transmitted by their speakers, without them being denied. This hides the secret of our problem here today. In the fact that some still think that they can decide beyond the regulatory authorities what media space will look like and who will be elected and that when it cannot be influenced then these bodies will be changed. These are very serious problems, problems much more serious than ours to say in a witty outcry or not to say another expression, because I see now that I'm going to get an undeserved replica, because all I'm saying is a constructive attempt to figure out what problem we're in. And the damage has been done seriously. It has been done towards Europe, it has been done towards European integration. At board meetings, there were people who saw that this phase situation couldn't be regarded as something positive. After our laws have been passed on to European bodies, we question them again with our practice and throw Croatia back. That is why there is a responsibility, which is why there is a responsibility for those who are initiators of such events. Now I don't think I have the slightest need to say who is the initiator of such events, it's been so well seen here all day today, from the board to this meeting, how and now I hope it ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74640	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74641	The people say who itches is scratching. Here and now, speaking here about HINA and its Council, Mr. MP says the attacks on the HRT Council are common, but it's so tight that nothing can happen to him. Unfortunately, it is true because there is no one in the history of electronic media but we Croats, and you have personally done this law and contributed to this disgrace together with your best man and friend and otherwise a longtime member of the party and the functionator of your party as well as those present. As you walked along the Sava dilapidated, you came up with this nakaradic council, which has caused so much damage to Croatian broadcasters that it will never recover from that damage. And as for the financial side, you've brought hundreds of millions of kuna damage. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74642	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74643	... I'm actually really glad that someday I might be able to deny something, which is that I'm credited with a godfather who doesn't exist. [[Specially enabled.]] But since this Mr. MP with his other media associates has a methodology that they write one lie, then they say the media is writing about it as if it's already true and now that lie is repeating itself. Mr. President of the Parliament, would you perhaps be able to take it upon yourself not to repeat in this House any lies, demonstrations, false demonstrations, and I think of you as saying the yellow press that penetrates this House so that we have the yellow representatives? Could that somehow stop? I beg you, it would be in the interest of democracy in Croatia and this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74644	Another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74645	Mr. President, Mr. Representative has violated Article 209 and under Article 214 you should give him a warning of insult. An esteemed and educated gentleman should know in what sense I used the godfather. I used my godmother in that movie... Where Don Corleone talks to his godfather when he's looking in that loud scene, and then says best man to producer says I have to give you an offer you won't refuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's exactly what happened to you with HRT, and for the rest, ask Dennis Kuljish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74646	You must always point out, always Godfather I or Godfather II when it comes to that, and Godfather III has, yes. And a respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74647	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd fix next. Mr. Representative said today, thank God the Council of Croatian Radio Television is hard to touch, so you said. And I don't think that's true, because we touched him very much in the last debate. We'll keep touching him. Whenever we think it's not working well and it's not working in the interest of general interests and public television. And otherwise, as for the porter and veterinarian, I'm gonna finish this with maybe one of your anecdotes. It is not said that what your diploma says must be God and a beating for what you do. Today in Croatia you have one of the best young Mozart singers in Europe. You know what he's into? The dentist.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74648	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the proposal for a bill on the Commissioner for Information. Your performance is going towards this. Session interrupted at 8:37 p.m. Proposal for a decision to resolve the work of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. The debate is closed. I'm putting it to the vote. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll have, first we'll vote on each individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74650	Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74651	What? Wait, I didn't give you my word. We're going to have to vote on each individual's resolution. Here you go, on behalf of the HSP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74652	Dear Mr. President, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian party's law club because of the fact that the Committee of Law did not act on our request because here is not only a political but legal problem. Ten-minute stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74653	It's a HNS rep club. SDP break of 10 minutes. ... Ten minutes on request from these four clubs. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Time's up for breaks. We'll continue on behalf of the HSP club with, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74655	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. In addition to Croatian Radio, HINA is an example of how the Croatian public is reported objectively and professionally. When appointing the present composition or part of the present composition... The Croatian party's right club warned of the fact that it is not immediately elected and the employee's representative because we appreciate and respect HINA's employees and workers. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] We also asked for a new procedure to be conducted, but you told us that HINA could not be without an administrative council because a new administrative council must be appointed as a formerly expired composition. And now we're in a legal situation. If they voted out what was proposed, HINA would have two directors but would not have a board of directors. So it is about us as a Croatian party of rights, as a Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Rights, that we cannot participate in making illegal decisions in the Croatian Parliament, is it as if we were involved in this means that we are violating the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and we are setting a bad example for everyone else and we know what the situation is about corruption and for all other situations, meaning all illegal situations. Therefore, the situation is clear to us. It is the Council that must be in the future that this proposal is not prepared in this way. Logic is things and legal and each other is that if one administrative council is resolved immediately, a new choice must be made. Because now you're going to have a situation where there's no board of directors and that's why we're asking for a delay in voting on this decision until it's prepared and a new immediate appointment of new ones, are we against the current composition of the board of directors, that's how we voted. We have no objection to changing, but we cannot bring HINA and the Croatian legal system into a situation to participate in making illegal decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74656	Thank you. For the club HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74657	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I join the request on behalf of the Croatian People's Party, a request from a party of law counterparts. Namely, no matter how the administrative council was set up, the way the procedure went, we went out, we entered, we blackmailed each other, we were rude. The administrative council has been elected in a legal manner. This procedure and yesterday in that discussion we repeated several times in the evening, a little emotional, a little funny, a little rough, a little bit like this, but the conclusion was evident, that this procedure in the factual state of things now leaves HINA without a board of directors. So far, HINA has had a four-member board of directors, one unselected. That shit, 'cause that horse's been replaced. And now we're only going to put one. It's not even a horse anymore, I don't know what it's called anymore, but if today's decision is to vote that these four members of the board of directors are being replaced by the Governing Council of HINA will remain one man, at the head of HINA there will be one director who has been elected by the Board of Directors. So one completely absurd surrealist situation that can be avoided by doing what we did at one of the previous points. One member of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education was immediately selected. The moment this happens, then, when a proposal for the other four members arrives on the bench, we will be ready to vote on it. Until then, unfortunately, I don't really appeal to all the MPs that we don't act illegally, that we don't bring such an important company into a situation that it doesn't actually have a head. Let's postpone this vote until the proposer gives us four new names. Of course, it is the democratic right of the parliamentary majority to determine what four names are and these must be some kind of four names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74658	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74659	Well, yesterday we discussed the problem of the democratic deficit and did not agree on who was responsible for the democratic deficit. Some have said that the government is responsible, others have said that the administrative council is responsible and most today should decide whether it is the administrative council for which the proposed sanctions for the Government are unfortunately difficult for us to ensure, in such a meeting of the Parliament, predicting or proposing even less the implementation of sanctions. However, today we may still be able to agree on another deficit, which is a legal deficit or legal vacuum, in which, by our deep conviction, the sole responsibility of the Government of not the Parliament will be found by HINA who will almost be unable to function legally, legally, if we resolve today and this remaining valid management staff in HINA no matter what we think of the composition of that governing council. And that is why we support the initiative of colleagues from the HSP club to postpone voting on this, to reach as much legal solution as possible and to get out of this unacceptable, strange situation in which we, as representatives, have been brought into office and for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible, and its prime minister, who thinks that the decisions taken are being annulled by his loud statement at the cabinet session.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74660	Thank you. HDZ Club. For the HDZ club, respected representative Florian Boras, the HDZ representative club has applied. Only if someone wasn't listening in their ears then that's the problem with their ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74661	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I believe that there are no political and no legal reasons for delaying the proposed decision. I will refer in particular to legal reasons because, in the reasons for the search for the club by HSP, these are cited as the main reasons or legal ambiguity, which is why a pause is sought, i.e. a co-ordination. In fact, on the Legislative Committee, the truth is that Mr. Pero Kovacevic asked us to put it on the agenda, and we put that item on the table, we held a certain debate. However, we concluded that we should still carry out some additional consultations, get materials, etc. But the truth is, it didn't happen later. But I'll say the same thing next. It is not a practice and is not common by the Legislative Committee to consider election and appointment decisions at its meetings. In accordance with Article 59 of our Rules of Procedure, it seems to me that there are no provisions that would allow us to do so. It's true that the general provision "dos other jobs" as well. Of course, we could have done it. What we would certainly conclude at the session of the Legislative Committee is the following. We would certainly support such a proposal because it really does not have any nomotechnical or similar disadvantages that we might point to. The possible consequences or legal ambiguities resulting from such a decision will be resolved by the competent authorities in a normal procedure. Therefore, the fact situation will be that HINA will be without part of the board members but will be removed in a regular procedure in a manner prescribed by the HINA Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74662	Okay. Shall we vote? Let's see. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue the next session. It'll probably be scheduled on November 8th. I'm closing the session. Elections, appointments and resolutions. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. I am voting on the motion for a decision... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Good! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative of the Honorable Antun Vujic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74664	Mr. President, we must warn that we have found ourselves in an anomaly equal to the functioning and operation of this council. On the one hand, I don't need to remind the Parliament. So it was recently warned on this side of the assembly that these same members we now resolve except one do not fulfil the conditions by which they could be chosen, but we also chose them, or appointed them. We are now in a position to resolve them on their own request and because of the situation that has been created and which is known to the public. However, parallel with this resolution is a solution that is completely unnecessary and which has not given its own initiative, leaving it to Mr. Russan, who was also president of that council in the meantime. And now we are also in a situation that while we have this proposal, we do not have a proposal for new council members. As I think it happens, this way something that is completely in the government's control because the appointment and proposal of all these candidates is on the verification, actually at the adoption of the Parliament in the government's authority is happening that we don't really know where we are right now, whether we have a council, whether we have no council, which means the consequences and what the consequences of the resolution are, who is there in this same rather complex situation that has a whole series of obligations and have to operate now is doing any kind of activity. This is, I don't know how to resolve it, maybe you'd know that you're thinking about the situation where we've now found ourselves in a government decision that first proposed one, then pulled it back, this Parliament has put it in a position to plead in the wrong way so that after all this time it can be confirmed that the Parliament, that those who were against it were right. Where are we now and how much this benefits the media situation and in this delicate matter which is to say so under the great interest of the public, the world and everything else. What and where are we now? And who can answer that on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74665	Okay. Gentlemen, just take it easy before that. ... Peace, please. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Lonchar, three council members have resigned. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] One isn't. The government has proposed that four people be resolved, so three people who resigned. Now it is a real situation in which it is necessary to resolve this situation as quickly as possible in a way that has been resolved, and those who have resigned. The fifth member is on the appointing proposal, his candidacy has been established and the government should, if these are resolved today, put up an invitation notice immediately to propose new candidates to confirm and appoint the Parliament within two weeks, for example. That's one way out of that situation now. Comrade Kovačević, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74666	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President, and for the last time, on behalf of the Croatian party club, I have proposed that the resolution be carried out together with the appointment of new members. Let's not put ourselves in a paradoxical legal situation for HINA to be left without a board of directors and I think it's the government because we had it at the last session, so this one before this session, that the government was supposed to make a public call to elect new members. Legally, this situation is the same as when between the elections that the government that the technical government has resigned and the law does not allow it because it must continue to work. That's the legal situation here. We can't put HINA in an illegal position. These members must remain until we have appointed new members at the same time. So we can't get into a legal situation if HINA doesn't have a board of directors. If you're watching the law... It is known what the powers of the administrative council are and I suggest again that for the fourteen days that you have said then we also have a proposal for the appointment of the new and the resolution of the old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the only legal possible solution. This is now a nakaradic solution and creates a large number of illegalities and makes HINA's business impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74667	Those who have resigned from the council shall remain in office. If they are now resolved, the Council shall not exercise legal obligations but shall carry out the tasks of the Director. Let's go vote. The government will need to deliver an ad as soon as possible, and then we cannot discuss and open more discussions. Let's go vote, gentlemen. ... Please, how illogical it is that we will determine something by voting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First of all, I'm voting. ... Please, we can't open the debate. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's no more discussion opening. ... Well, you have a question. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You will answer every question by voting. ... Here you go, business of nature. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74668	My question is business nature. Why now that we're asked to act and vote on it, there's no one here from the government of the Resolute Ministry who needs to be here and explain this proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74669	That's why the debate is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74670	I'm asking why there's no one here.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74671	Well, there shouldn't be a vote. The debate is over. Please, let's go to the vote. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the discharge of the God of the Jump of the member of the Governing Council of HINA. Please, let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74672	Please, if it's any technical, these or those interferences, then we can raise our hand. And I suggest you raise your hand. ... Get up. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] That's what we want you to get up. Show the world who you are and what you are. That's right. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-10-19-0.u74673	Let's get involved and see a quorum that probably doesn't exist right now. ... 70. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's no quorum. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the arms bill proposal. Thank you to those agents who didn't come and who managed to bring down the quorum. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. I am voting on a motion to resolve the god of Skoke, a member of the board of directors of HINA. Bozo Skoko resigned. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 78 votes for and 1 abstention, he has been relieved of his duties as member of the Governing Council of HINA, Bozo Skoko. I am voting on the motion for a decision to resolve Diana Katica, a member of the Governing Council of HINA, and she resigned. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 79 votes for Diane Katica, the member of the Governing Council of HINA has been relieved. I am voting on the motion to resolve Drazen Jovic, a member of the Governing Council of HINA. And Drazen Jovic resigned. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that with 79 votes for and Drazen Jovic has been unanimously relieved of the duties of members of the HINA Council. Hold still! I am voting on the motion to resolve Ivan Rusan, a member of the Governing Council of HINA. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 79 votes, the decision to resolve Ivan Rusan is a member of the board of directors of HINA.
