ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64907	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear lady and gentlemen of Parliament. There's a very important law in front of you. The law on the market in oil and petroleum products falling within those laws which comply with the Directives of the European Union. Therefore, this Law is fully in line with all European Union directives relating to the oil and petroleum products market. Clearly, it is also in line with the Energy Act, therefore, and has removed some of the illogicalities and shortcomings of the existing Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. What is most important in this Law, and what are changes and changes? First of all, this Law seeks to achieve harmonisation in the matter of permits to carry out energy activities. Therefore, the granting of licences to a natural person to carry out the activity of the transport of oil and petroleum products of road vehicles, which was also the request of the Road Transporter Association. Then, when it comes to oil and oil prices, they are also in this, therefore, the law provides for a model of establishing the highest levels of oil and oil prices, based on the rules adopted by the minister responsible for these affairs, therefore, the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Although, therefore, the price of oil and petroleum products is established on market principles. This Law also provides for the possibility that, in the event of exceptional disturbances in the market for oil and petroleum products, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, in order to protect consumers, market regulation or for other justified reasons, prescribe a maximum level of prices for certain oil derivatives, but for a certain period. So, up to 90 days max. Also, this Law makes it more clear that a certain obligation to keep and operate oil supplies and mandatory oil supplies. Therefore, operating oil supplies are, therefore, the quantities of oil they must, or oil derivatives, which must be held by certain, therefore, certain business entities. First of all, those who use oil or oil products to produce electricity, to supply energy to citizens. And when it comes to mandatory oil supplies, then it is our obligation in Croatia to have in line with the European Union's oil supply directive for up to 90 days. So, for supplying 90 days, calculated based on consumption in the previous year. It is clear that it is impossible to do this in a short time and immediately and in this Law a clear and precise dynamic by age which quantities, therefore, should also be provided by day the way in which these mandatory stocks will be provided. The model here in this Act is proposed by means of a special Agency for Mandatory Stocks which should, therefore, be purchased and stockpiled, acquired and cared for, renewed and the Agency would be established by the basis of this Act. And clearly, decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And what may also be significant when we talk about these mandatory supplies that are accurate and precise by age as these oil supplies need to be increased. By 2012, it should finally have that amount of stock, 90-day relative to consumption in the previous year. What may also be interesting here to say is that, if this law is adopted clearly, the Agency is set up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there will also be an administrative council in that Agency, consisting of a representative of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, a representative of the Ministry of Finance and 3 independent experts. What I would still like to say here when it comes to this Law that it was precisely in keeping with the mandatory supplies which, therefore, and with the regulations so far, the government regulation was not under obligation, there was no possibility of sanctioning those who did not hold these mandatory supplies. Therefore, there are also criminal provisions in this Law for all those who do not fulfil obligations under this Law. And this will facilitate clear supervision and control of the resolution ministry, therefore, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship so that it can, clearly, control and worry that these supplies exist. Here, this law, I repeat, is very important and important, relatively short, but I think it clearly and precisely defines all the important things that are important when we talk about the oil and oil products market and I think this law is particularly important. I repeat, that it clearly and precisely determines and defines what operational supplies are and who is obliged to provide operational supplies of oil and petroleum products, which are mandatory supplies and who is obliged and how to take care of mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products. What is also important to say when we talk about mandatory supplies, therefore, is that the price of oil and oil derivatives and now contains the financial part relating to these mandatory supplies. Therefore, that financial part will now be allocated to the Agency's account and will practically be supplied by the Agency to oil and oil derivatives. Therefore, with this amount for the collection of compulsory oil and oil derivatives, there will be no increase in the price of oil or oil derivatives. Here in the shortest, these would be the most important changes and changes to this law as well. I repeat, which is not that large by the number of articles, but is particularly important and significant that the obligations of all those who today operate and work in the oil and oil products market are primarily defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64908	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64909	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting an incorrect statement by the minister regarding the mandatory supply of oil and oil derivatives in 90 days. This obligation already exists according to documents of the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia and according to all the plans for action in the event of natural disasters, in the event of an operation of the protection and rescue system. We've had 91, and we must always have it at 90 days. Not only for oil and oil derivatives, but for all parts of the stock, but the situation is unfortunately sad. That we are now saying that we will have until 2012, and we should have at all times.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64910	The committee's reporters? ... A little later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The committee's reporters? Economy, development, reconstruction, finance, state budget, legislation? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. The club loses its word. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Instead, Pero Kovacevic will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64911	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Well, what I said in the correction, I'll start with that. Any responsible state that takes care of its citizens must be ready to act in all situations and must have adequate strategic supplies, and the appropriate strategic supplies must include oil and oil derivatives. So that's where the state has to have three situations. One situation is a case of direct threat and independence, the unity of the state, or even more difficult situation of war. The second is when a system of protection and rescue works whether it is a matter of natural disasters, whether it is a variety of factors. And there's a third case of market disturbance. So at all times and according to documents from the defence plan of the Republic of Croatia according to the Defence Strategy, and according to all other documents that regulate the area of the protection and rescue systems, which regulate the area of defence and action in so-called ‘Defence’. the state's exceptional and other circumstances must have not only oil and oil supplies but must have all other supplies so that it can react adequately at certain times, in all these situations. And therefore, the sad thing is that today we are talking about that these supplies that are due in 90 days, means that average consumption can only be reached in 2012. I wonder how we could have had that in '91. Because we were in '91. supply and oil and oil derivatives and everything that was needed and constantly renewed as we had stock supplies in all situations, means both for food and for everything else. This must always be had and we must open up and debate about the situation and in the supply and in everything else because you see that various situations occur, such as the price of oil and petroleum products. Therefore, that the state has a problem is likely to occur after it has started to privatise the INA, and then these plans of the defence plan and what the state must have to do with the protection and rescue systems and for timely and preventive action in all situations where the state has to react, means when situations are not normal, they are not regular, when it must react to allow for the operation of the state system, the operation of, for example, the protection and rescue system and the normal supply of Croatian citizens. It was probably because of that, and then that variant happened, I was the first to react, Mr. Luka Bebic knows, I was head of the Working Group when we were doing the defense plan, he was the minister of winning the military and everything else, so we had it all in '91. years and... either in 2001, 2002, when it was established, the same was the disturbance in the oil and oil derivatives area when it turned out that most had to have a 15-day supply, the former government so-called coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we here have to ask ourselves how and to what, why are these planning documents related to the functioning of the defence system, related to the operation of the security system of the state and related to the operation of the protection and rescue system, why have we come into such a situation that we don't have the supplies at the level that we need, and that's 90 days of average consumption? I know this government has taken over from the former government, but we have to ask ourselves, who's responsible for this? Who is responsible for this whole situation because the normal state reacts by renewing oil and petroleum products when the situation on the market is favourable and then can also act in terms of price regulation and everything else, that means one normal behaviour, one behaviour that can protect and can react correctly. So here, it's a rather difficult situation if you look at it from all those other points of view. So only in 2012 does it mean that we're going to charge that part further to do it, so I wonder how we've had all this time and what's happened to those supplies we've had in 90 days? We had them all the time for 90 days, so they were sold, and the new ones weren't built. Now who's responsible? Let's talk about responsibility for once. So it's not a word, God forbid there's going to be a situation that's going to have to act as a defence system, that there's going to be a situation of immediate threat, independence, unity of the state, that there's going to be a situation of war, but there's a day today, and there's always a situation where there's gotta be a system of protection and rescue and when a state has to be responsible for such situations as price disturbances, oil market prices and everyone else's when there's a mechanism of reaction, and that mechanism is exactly the kind of supply at this level. Therefore, these other things the club supports, but here we really have to ask who brought Croatia in that there is no supply of oil and oil derivatives for 90 days of average consumption? Who put Croatia in a situation where there is no supply at the level it needs to have in order that the protection and rescue system could or parts of the protection and rescue system could react in a given situation and we have brought into the situation both Croatian citizens and government and state that in situations where there are disturbances, i.e. bouncers, an enormous jump in the price of Barelo oil on the oil market cannot react and protect both the price of oil and oil derivatives in an appropriate way. If we had these supplies at this point, the government would always have the means to protect and price and react not in the way that, unfortunately, it has to go with the floating excise duty and with this part that it will try to react to the reduction of margins and everything else. So, I wonder who's responsible for that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64912	Thank you. Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64913	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, once again, I will explain and repeat something clearly written in this Law, so in Article 11. Mandatory stocks of oil and petroleum products do not include strategic commodity stocks governed by the Strategic Stocks Act. So we have the strategic stock supplies that exist, that we know for what purposes, for what purposes. This is about mandatory supplies which can, therefore, or may need due to extraordinary supply disturbances and I will return once more, we have operational supplies and to explain once again what it is about the operational stock that is obliged to have operational supplies. These are therefore energy operators which produce electricity or heat from oil products for the market or for tariff customers, purchasers of oil products that provide public services and produce electricity and heat for their own needs and customers of oil products that produce electricity and heat for legal and physical persons providing public services. Therefore, operational supplies are bound by certain energy producers supplying citizens and must have these operational supplies to avoid jeopardising their role and the task of supplying that energy. Mandatory stocks are due to possible market disturbances and as regards strategic stock stocks they are not included in these stocks. You can see from this dynamic that in 2007, a 60-day supply is needed, so 60 days of average consumption last year, and five days is increasing that stock by 2012, and here I want to say there are no currently dangerous situations in terms of the lack of supplies or the lack of these fuels needed under certain exceptional circumstances. Keeping mandatory supplies has become so far. The duty was therefore to the INA and others involved in the oil derivative market, and these quantities are with them. So this model goes to an agency that will store these mandatory supplies, take care of them, rebuild them, etc. So that's why it's just the next year's 60-day supply. If we were just at the beginning then we could really ask a question if in that short time there could be a supply of 90 daily ones that are really large amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64914	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64915	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption. There's no difference between strategic and operational supplies. According to documents of the defence plan, at any time they must have oil and oil products supplies for 90 days of average consumption and can always react to those supplies in case of protection and rescue needs, market price disturbances and everything else. It's obvious we don't have it, and that's what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64916	HDZ representative club, respected representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64917	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs! Today, we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products with a final draft law on the proposal of the Government of Croatia with a proposal for the proposed law to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The urgency of the procedure is justified because this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union because the now applicable Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products under the "National Journal" 68/2001. It is not in line with the European Union directives whose specific provisions are in conflict with the provisions of the Energy Act and their harmonisation is necessary and have been approached by the draft law. The new Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products aims to achieve the following. Coordination on permits to carry out energy activities, in particular the authorisation of a natural person to carry out the activity of the transport of oil and petroleum products to road vehicles, the determination of the highest level of price of oil and petroleum products on the market by the Minister, under the obligation to allocate from the price of oil derivatives funds for the financing of the work of the Agency for Mandatory Stocks and Mandatory Stocks of Oil and Oil Products. A more precise definition of the obligation to hold operational supplies of oil and petroleum products and the necessary levels of the necessary supplies where any potential obligation to hold operational supplies defined by the ministry must make its own assessment of the quantity and dynamics of the necessary operational supplies. Furthermore, to address the necessary issues related to the security of oil and oil supply, to define the criterion of keeping the stocks available for 90 days of the average consumption of the previous year and to establish an agency for compulsory oil and petroleum products with a view to a more efficient supply organisation and the management and control of the storage of mandatory oil and petroleum products supplies. The relevant Act on the Market in Oil and Oil Products in its individual provisions is in conflict with the provisions of the Energy Act, which states in Article 16(3) that no authorisation is required to carry out the energy activities of retail and storage of oil and petroleum products for its own use while, at the same time, the applicable Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products states that a permit is necessary for the construction and use of oil and petroleum products storage and retail oil derivatives and that the need to correct these irregularities is evident. The Energy Act of Amendments and Supplements in Article 13 states that a licence may be issued to a natural person to carry out the activity of the transport of oil and petroleum products by road vehicles. The price of oil and petroleum products shall be determined in accordance with market conditions and the basis of the rules adopted by the economy minister on the determination of the maximum level of price of certain petroleum products. The formula for determining the highest prices of petroleum products is based on measurable market elements, including in the law the prescribed elements which form an integral part of the existing formula. The law provides for the possibility in the event of exceptional market disturbances for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe a maximum level of prices but maximum for a 90-day period. The price of oil derivatives shall be allocated to finance the work of the Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products in the amount established annually by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and on a proposal from the Croatian Mandatory Stock Agency. This amount for the financing of compulsory stocks of oil and petroleum products is added to the sales price without taxes and other duties. The applicable law defines the bonds of holding operational supplies as well as the height of the same ones that often depended on a number of influential factors which were often the subject of criticism by individual taxpayers. The new law sets out by the ministry itself the amount and dynamics of the necessary operational supplies according to the methodology prescribed by the ministry. Oil and oil derivatives are extremely important energy sources for the Republic of Croatia but are also marketable and it is very important to maintain the continuity and security of supply on the market, so it was logical to prescribe the obligation to hold the necessary previously defined oil and oil products. It is therefore necessary to find a solution and by law to regulate the holding of operational supplies of oil and petroleum products in order to ensure the stability and security of the supply of special customers and the quality of supply. This law offers a solution that will meet the obligation to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and the model for the formation and storage of 90 daily mandatory stocks, to fit into the existing system of regulation of oil and petroleum products. In February 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation on mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products, which resolved the model that the stockholders themselves worry about ensuring the holding of supplies, while the Ministry oversees the process of creating and holding mandatory supplies. It's contained in the price of oil derivatives. Certain provisions of that Regulation are also included in the new Proposal for a Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. When drawing up a proposal for this Act, the rules and the applicable European Union Directive were taken into account and the criteria for the establishment of compulsory stocks of 25% of net imports from the previous year were abandoned, and a new criterion for keeping the minimum stocks sufficient for 90 days of average consumption from the previous year was adopted. For the sake of better supervision of the dedicated spending of the funds collected in the fuel price, the establishment of a special agency whose activities would be the purchase and sale of oil and oil products, the creation and... the supply, organisation, control and management of compulsory stocks as well as the setting of conditions for storage of mandatory oil and petroleum products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Agency for Mandatory Stocks is obliged to establish mandatory stocks of 90 daily average consumption by 31 July 2012. The cost of purchasing 90 daily supplies at today's prices would be $300 million. This Law also provides for sanctions for those who do not provide mandatory supplies. And finally, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64918	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64919	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will also accept and give consent to the draft text of the Law. But I want to point out immediately that the SDP Club has something different to think about forming mandatory supplies. We would like to explain in essence the concepts of forming mandatory supplies and to try to really see if this is the right way to propose. The current Law made it very clear that mandatory supplies are held by oil suppliers and oil suppliers. That they're their supplies, that they must have those supplies. They're controlled by the Ministry of Economy. They control, which means they can't have them because they're being taken away from their market licenses at the time, and the financing of such supplies was at the price of the margin they operate with. With the current bill, we are trying to say in Article 7 that we will install mandatory supplies in the price of oil derivatives. And that's where the first problem is now. The price of oil derivatives is too high anyway. Why is it too high? Number one, because of the space oil prices we can't operate on. The forecasts that have been uninterrupted over the past year are that the price of world oil will go to $100 per barrel. So you're not expecting a reduction. An increase is expected. Yesterday we heard a minister of finance saying how problematic it is to cut excise fees. Why? Because we included excise duties in the budget, and we set out for the purpose of building roads and highways in Croatia. Therefore, the impositions imposed by the State on the prices of the derivatives are so high. They even cross 53 to 57% of the total retail price, and that's why we have such high prices. One of the highest in the region and very high in Europe and the European market. We have a proposal today because we're going to include both the Agency's labour costs and the opera... I apologize, but we're going to include the mandatory stock in the price of the derivatives. I find that unacceptable. We must not allow any new burdens, any new burdens on the price of derivatives. We can't let that happen. In particular, what we know is the materials that the government has currently put in place on the strategy of how we will behave in the oil crisis, we must not accept today a burden on the price of oil. And so seriously today we need to discuss Article 7 because simply in Article 7, paragraph 5, it is very clear that this cost will be defined through the price of oil. And then we go back to the question why oil products producers, oil suppliers are not holding their own in the course of their business, and through their own margin they have at their disposal do not finance, I would say the costs of financing such a model. And that's what we can accept. Why? Well, because we have strategic supplies, we have the strategic stock that we normally have in mind because of the needs of the defence system, and on the other hand, since they're proposed in the articles and dynamics of growth above 60 days of stock we have today, it's possible that this and the Agency in those 30 days of supply form themselves, they own it, but we don't include in the price of oil derivatives. Why? That's why. The state has income from excise duties. So in the Budget we'll have income from oil derivatives and oil derivatives prices anyway, and from existing excise duties we'll finance possibly 30-day supplies that will be owned by the Agency but not by additional burden on the price of the derivatives. So the basic problem at this point is an excessive level of prices that do not allow all 90 days of these mandatory stocks to be included in the price of oil derivatives. And that's what I'd say are opportunities that we need to talk seriously about and we need to be careful not to be the cause of today's law. Why? Because if we adopt this Act today independently of these 60 days of supplies currently in place with the manufacturer and the importer, they will simply transfer it to the price of the derivative on the basis of the deadlines set out in Article 26. We won't be able to stop it. The Minister will have to approve, as this is the case in this article. So, he's expecting us based on this law, a new increase in the price of derivatives. This is why the SDP Club believes that we could not accept Article 5(7), that we can only think about it the moment the price of oil is stabilised on the world market, that it is stabilised so that we can possibly make it very clear what we are going to say with 60 June and 60 lips for highways and roads and that at that moment we start to think if we assess that it is good to put all 90 days in the possession of the Croatian state and have as property to be managed by the agency. Because world models show that part of the operating stock can be sought in those who sell oil derivatives. It's just being controlled, and then it's not financing the purchase of those 60 days because it's their funding, and it's funding that's being resolved through the margin of traders without a problem, and I think by combining a 60-day model with them for 30 days through our new agency that's only going to happen in those last years until 2010, we can handle it by not touching the price of oil, not building a new cost at the price of oil derivatives. And that is why the SDP Club is aware of the problems we have at our price level, is aware of the problems in the budget and has proposed amendments to Article 7 and amendments to Article 21 in which we want to avoid the addition of new charges to the price of oil derivatives. The problem is, this law came two days ago. It's an emergency procedure. Harmonisation, but they are very important and I think that the proposings should take this very seriously, to really seriously discuss the possibility of sharing responsibility, to divide I would say the cost of financing the purchase of mandatory supplies. I will not talk at all about those basic problems that the Croatian state has always had. Stock reserves owned by the Croatian state, renewal, losses, theft. These have always been the basis of affairs and problems in the Croatian state, especially for the problems of the Croatian government. And that's why we think that simply with these combinations we're going to reduce the cost of adhesion, the cost of loss. The losses in the oil derivatives are enormous. If anyone knows anything about specific weights, about heat shocks, about simple losses that are otherwise technological in oil derivatives, then we can only assume what problems will arise if we transfer all 90 days of mandatory supplies to the agency. Suggestion, let's be very careful. Let us try in these transitional periods, because we have defined the transitional period by 2010 really quite different business. However, and we said that these 60 days these are what are called mandatory supplies still remain until 2010 with sellers or importers and producers of petroleum products. Therefore, let us not make it difficult for ourselves to form oil prices. Now what the SDP is still trying to draw attention to. It's a question of our two refineries. If this is already a law that speaks of the oil market, then the question is why do we not prohibit this law from selling harmful products to the environment and harmful derivatives for the rolling stock of our consumers and our citizens. We know that two refineries in the Republic of Croatia produce fuels that are not suitable for current technologies. They're not appropriate. There's still a very small percentage of the vehicles they need I'd say the outdated types of European fuel standards. Every year we approve of INA that it can sell these inappropriate quality fuels in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why in the management of the INA in the entire structure of responsible people in INA no one deals with development and instead of having two modern refineries because the profits of 2000 are very high, which money has, which is the possibility of investing money exists. That these investments are not government budget deficits because they have their own prices and their own market. Therefore, thanks to the irresponsible people in INA, we have been brought into the process that today we are burdened with why on the Croatian market we must spend fuel that threatens the environment and endangers the motor vehicles of Croatian citizens. The question remains, and the SDP has not offered amendments because it is something that we would very much like to discuss with the promoter why the provisions in this law also do not limit until we tolerate the unquality fuels of the INA on the Croatian market and which are criminal non-taxes, criminal charges that INA must pay for environmental damage and how we will essentially allow consumers with damage to such non-quality fuels to have protection through this law. Therefore, we believe that if we want to fully regulate the market in Croatia, and realizes that we cannot and is not interested in closing two refineries in Croatia, we need to regulate that INA by paying special fees and in what time it will still be possible with non-quality fuels on the Croatian market, and that these laws are the ones that we very clearly say and shorten the deadlines that we have been listening to in the last two, three days to rebuild the INA and simply limit them by this law. And I think it is also our duty, because in this way we can act on INA, INA administration and all those who are guilty of having two outdated refineries in the Republic of Croatia today. Therefore, our proposal as the SDP Club suggests that I assess how much it is really possible to try to install provisions to protect the environment and protect consumers in the Republic of Croatia from more non-quality products in the law that lies ahead of us today. Here is so much to do with the proposal of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products by the SDP Club, noting that we have attached two amendments with which we are seeking to protect the price level of oil derivatives. And what was often highlighted yesterday, protects both citizens and their standards, but protects the Croatian economy so it can be competitive on the European market.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64920	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64921	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd just like to make two things right. Dear representative Mr. Slavko Linic said we should not allow new charges on oil prices. I just want to remind the esteemed Mr Linic that the SDP has just requested funding for the development of Croatian railways with a new 60 limes per litre. And the other thing is, it's the irresponsible people in INA who did it and they did it. I would like to remind Mr. Linic that it was they who set up the INA administration and, on the other hand, that he was personally the chairman of the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64922	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Nikola Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64923	Thank you. Mr. President, it is incorrect that keeping the minimum supplies for 90 days will currently increase the retail price of fuel. Because the planning of 90 daily supplies is planned gradually until 31 July 2012. And it won't have anything to do with the retail price.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64924	Third correction, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64925	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting the same false assumption that irresponsible people in INA are guilty that refineries are not already modernised. I think it was an irresponsible government that sold MOL to, your government that sold MOL to under those conditions, and now MOL can condition that, you just said that Mr. Linic, that he can condition that these refineries are not being renewed. And especially irresponsible is your statement when you said it was done in spite of the contract, so let the MOL sue. So much for irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64926	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovačević, the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64927	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Linic's incorrect allegations regarding the notion of a strategic stockpile for the needs of a 90-day defence. You are falsely speaking, it belongs, meaning not only for the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia but for the purposes of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia for a 90-day period, the needs of the population of Croatia for a 90-day period and the needs of the economy. This includes that level of supply of mandatory oil and oil derivatives at 90 days, not what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64928	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64929	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here's the Honorable Parliamentarian, Mr. Linic, but we need to get things straight here. So it's not true that it's any kind of a new imposition and an increase in oil derivatives prices, because I'd be the first one against it. And I'm sorry if you don't know, but the formula, the regulation that determines the maximum prices of oil and petroleum products that are in place during your term and has a strict part of the price in terms of keeping the necessary supplies and manipulation. Therefore, it exists. So that part of the price the citizens of all these years have been paying, paying and now for mandatory supplies. And therefore, that part is simply a part that is not added to any price and this law will not cause any increase in the price of oil derivatives. So, mandatory supplies won't, and I'm responsible for that here, they won't cause any increase in oil and oil derivatives. The truth is, we now have a obligation under the regulation with any producer, any importer holding the stocks. But if we look at the European Union directives, if we look at what the European Union is doing and that model is possible and allowed, but in special tanks, warehouses, a special type of fuel that is stored and not used. Today, we have a situation with importers who have or do not have storage capacity, where they hold and therefore have a very difficult system of control and supervision of these goods. That's why this model agency is a model where we can be sure that these supplies are where they can be monitored, controlled. And as for all those things that used to be when we talk about stockpiles and affairs, I want to remind you that since this government has not been any affair. And there are models in the world, so let's look at the practice of other countries that have an agency, have clear control models and very strict control models. As for fuel evaporation, etc. The rules of this agency will be in that direction, as is the case in the world that it is not tolerated or admitted to any damage or loss because of the temperature we know what in the oil business, you know that well, I know something because I've been doing in that business. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid and I think that what is very important because of the public, because of all of you it is therefore at the price of oil and oil derivatives so far is the content of the financial obligation of this. There are no new commitments or new imposes to take place, nor will there be an increase in oil and oil prices due to mandatory supplies. And what you were saying about fuel quality. I would like to remind you, indeed, that a clearly established plan to modernise our refineries is to be completed by 2009/2010. That's what this government has done. Why didn't you and INA get her and MOL, that's, no, no, no, but it was set up here very much now and it's tied to these supplies. Just a moment, please. So we now have deadlines for modernization, we have a Quality Regulation and a type of fuel that can be placed on our market. So that's what we call this type of fuel that produces INA. We also have a fuel quality regulation that speaks until 2009/2010. I can't be on the market any more of a bad kind of fuel. Therefore, it is clear in all of this that accurate and precise deadlines are now known until then, the procedure in which part of the work must be completed. If that doesn't work out then the responsibility of those people in the INA who are obliged to do so in that time will be sought. And I think we're interested, and that's why now I'm going to say it's still about this law, and you mentioned that part of the problem with this law. It is clear that this law, along with the directives of the European Union, also has special privileges for those who have their own production, so their refineries. And that's why the mandatory stock that we owe us can be reduced by 25% based on our domestic production, so our refinery. To keep all necessary supplies. And we can also keep 40 or 50% of the amount in so-called crude oil or, therefore, cheaper oil than a derivative. So these are the benefits of those countries that have refineries. This is what we want to use, and we want to end the modernisation of the refinery in these three years, and we have all plans and dynamics, and we have this ministry that I'm headed to oversee and control and dynamics the work of modernising, and believe me, everything that doesn't work out in the plan will be sanctioned in time, and so the government's decisions have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64930	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64931	I am correcting the imprecise allegations of a minister who said that this government has brought programmes without the former government bringing them in. The INA programmes you have downloaded in the last month of 2003 have been clearly and unequivocally established. The Rijeka refinery was supposed to be completed by the end of this year and fully modernised. Sucker refinery by half next year. So these were the plans, the money was secured, the projects were secured, the tenders were already called. Therefore, your statement and your untrue Mr. Minister, that the former government, former management and former supervisory board have not defined very clear deadlines, projects and dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64932	We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64933	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 3 states that the calculation to determine the highest price of oil derivatives prices is based on measurable market elements, and include now, the price of oil derivatives on the market. So you will determine the price of oil derivatives at the price of oil derivatives. I guess that's where you should write oil prices, crude oil on the market, unless you wrote it on purpose. Unless you did it on purpose. And if you wrote on purpose, it means you have no plan and no intention of modernizing the refineries. So your plan is to buy oil products. This is either a lapus or very dangerous. If it's a lapus, then it's about crippling, and if it's dangerous, then it's about your evil intention. Then it's not clear to me, at a time when INA draws about 25% of the oil it puts on the market from domestic stocks, from our wells, how is it that the most price of oil derivatives does not enter that component? So there's no component coming in that would be the price of domestic oil exploitation. If it's known that a barrel of oil in Moldova, that it costs 20 dollars in exploitation, then each dollar is over that $20 profit INA based on the oil that is the country's mineral wealth. When INA was privatized, the company was privatized, but the wells were not privatized. That oil hasn't been sold to anyone. It's the oil of the citizens of this country, it's our mineral treasure. Drawing that mineral treasure, INA owns this country's citizens at the price at which it buys oil on the world market. Listen to the conditions where the fuel is so expensive, and when we're lucky that we're a country that still has some oil supply, then we have to let our citizens buy cheaper fuel just because they have their own oil, because that oil is theirs. She's not government, she's not prime minister, she's not minister, she's not INA, she's not Moolova. It is the property of you as a citizen, of me as a citizen, of my neighbor, of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Well, if you're already setting the price of oil, then bring in that component. So when we introduce that component, then we'll have a fairer calculation. Then we won't allow INA to generate extra profit by drawing up the country's mineral wealth and cheating on its citizens, cheating when it says, because listen, this is the price of oil in the Mediterranean. I know that oil supplies in Croatia are not enough to cover all needs of Croatia, we are not Kuwait, that is clear, part of oil must be imported. But the fact is that we're pulling 25% out of the Croatian country, but please correct that to remove any admission of evil intentions and the possibility of INAs providing extra profits to citizens. Then I'd like to know what's going on with the biodiesel. Why didn't he get into this law and the bio- diesel? I think that, correct me, I may not say the exact information, but I think that by 2008 or 2010 in the European Union countries will have to produce 10% of the biodiesel. Those who do not produce it will have to buy it on the world market. He'll have to. But they're gonna have to sell that much. Now look, we've got agricultural areas unprocessed, peasants keep sowing wheat and then they argue every year with the government whether it's kuna or kuna and 10, instead of encouraging the planting of oiled rapes and the production of biodiesel. Did you plan to build some refinery in Slavonia for the bio-Diesel? It's fuel that's... acceptable and that's cheaper at the price and that's renewable than oil. So now that we have so many fields unprocessed and we have peasants who have a problem with the placement of their products, so why doesn't this government act wisely, far-sightedly and for the next year, for two years, in advance build refineries for the bio- diesel and introduce incentives for farmers to grow oil tails. If it were written in this law, then I'd see some sense here. This way, along with all the good sides of this law, these failures in Article 7 and these failures in the vision of fuel production in the Republic of Croatia and this attitude towards their own oil stations, I am unfortunately forced to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64934	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64935	Mr. President, here I have been listening for two days from, I would say, one very negative campaign and propaganda, an ad for ours, we can say, the most significant and biggest company in Croatia, which is INA. I think it is counterproductive and that it should not be in the interest of the Croatian economy as a whole. More than the INA should be listed on the New York Stock Exchange right now. And, gentlemen, I am now completely clear from your exposure and your entire attack on INA throughout this entire time. You're the one who named the administration today. That's a fact, but the fact is that you sold 25% of INA property, INA shares, and that you sold another 50% of the INA decision rights. Now I totally understand why you did it because obviously INA needs to be sold as soon as possible, alienated so as not to be owned by the state of Croatia and the citizens of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64936	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64937	First, INA management has been replaced. That administration, designated by the government, or the monitoring board at the time of the coalition government, was not the only one left there, Dragicevic. Everyone else has been replaced, all of them. Well, now that you're giving the replica, at least get to know the facts. Don't say inaccuracies. Don't say inaccuracies. Secondly, no one here, at least I didn't speak against INA, but I warned the government that its policy towards INA as a significant domestic company and towards the oil market and towards the citizens of this country is inadmissible. Government policy is not INA's policy. Because this government that won't take care of oil supplies, domestic oil that will allow our citizens to sell their own oil as if it were imported, that government is not doing well. And this government does not work in the interests of the country's citizens and this government allows citizens of this country to be unnecessarily robbed. That's what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64938	Minister Branko Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64939	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Before something about the biodiesel and you're right, it's an important segment. We discussed this yesterday in the ministry and with trade unions and employers and discussed the basis and studies of the impact of energy prices on the development of Croatia, the economy and the standards of citizens, clearly. However, when we did this Law, it turned out that more articles of this Law would actually be made and that they would get triple the fatter law on bio- diesel. Therefore, there is a special law on biodiesel, ethanol and other types of fuel. And the quality regulation and the types of fuel are already included. So we also have concrete investors, exactly what you're saying, the possibility of building a refinery, the incentive funds from the Ministry of Agriculture. So we didn't ignore that part, but we didn't want to put it all together in this law because there would be quite one, I think, a situation where most of the laws and articles would be dedicated to the bio- diesel. So it's going to be a special law soon, but that doesn't mean that without that law, we don't now have activities both on investments and on subsidies and inciting precisely the production of biodiesel, which today, when we look at the rise in oil prices, is actually becoming priced competitive. Which is also very important, absolutely and therefore, we want to devote ourselves to the production of biodiesel, and also because of this directive and finally and the trend that we want, European, globally, to the participation of biodiesel, to be gradually far greater. But now something else that really surprises me because I don't like it and it's not nice, in my opinion, to say that there's something dangerous that's hiding in this. Because there's no danger here. The only danger may be, but she's been gone for two and a half years, too, so you as a parliamentary representative didn't know what your government was doing, your ministry. Because the basis for establishing the price of oil derivatives has been prices on the oil derivatives market since 2000 and 2001 in the rulebook, my people. So that foundation hasn't changed. We inherited this foundation as a government and it is not only present in Slovenia, in other countries. I think he's justified, therefore. It is marketable, therefore, the principle of market and price because we must act as a market economy. Therefore, but that this government has been thinking a lot about the standard and about the citizens, so we witnessed last year. We've had an extraordinary rise in oil prices on the world market. We haven't had that much price rise in oil derivatives in Croatia. And if we remember that many times the prime minister spoke just asking the INA to give up its profits and not to ease the rise in oil prices, exactly what you're saying. But I agree, and therefore, this law is now the basis for a regulation that will again regulate the highest amounts of oil and petroleum products to include certain elements of domestic production through corrective factors. That's where I support you, and we're going to include that now, because even after this law comes the rulebook, so, that is, that is, the highest level of price for oil derivatives. But what this government certainly does is, it certainly cares, cares about the standard of citizens, that INA can also make profitable business and invest in the investment of refineries which is very important, but also that as a company still owned by the Croatian state there is an account and that there is no profit or extra profit criterion of everything. It is the concern as well as the national companies on the supply of oil and oil derivatives and on the accessibility of oil and oil products to citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64940	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, a respected representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64941	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult to talk about a law that is in line with the articles of the European Union, i.e. with the legislation of the European Union if it is not regulated in the oil and petroleum products market and bio- diesel, bio-fuels. And in that context, I am correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim. Therefore, Article 5(2) states that biofuels can be supplied, added to oil derivatives. That, at the same time, in a law that needs to be aligned with the European Union recommendation and among other things, about the use of biofuels by 5% by 2010, it should be used after 2010 that it must be bought if we do not produce it on our own on the European Union market. If there wasn't one word in that law, then this should be translated, take off this "P.Z.E." and should be led to the law in the first reading and to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64942	Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64943	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I support the adoption of a new law on the oil and oil market. This proposal for a law has carried out in accordance with European Union directives, which has not been the case with the current law on the market in oil and petroleum products. This Law seeks to achieve as much security as possible in the supply of oil, its derivatives, which is very important in view of developments in the world oil market. Thus, the obligation to keep operational oil and petroleum products is defined more precisely because the current law does not recognise the concept of compulsory stocks but only the operational 15 daily stocks which bind entities engaged in the production of heat or electricity from petroleum products. This proposal also includes the now applicable regulation on mandatory oil supplies, its derivatives and corrects its lack of criminal provisions for those not holding the necessary supplies, which do not hold the necessary supplies or manipulate them for which there are no such sanctions in this Regulation. At the same time, the formation and storage of oil and its derivatives is regulated by 3 laws, the Strategic Stocks Act, the Energy Act and the now applicable Law on the market in oil and petroleum products, but none has defined mandatory stocks in accordance with the European Union directives. In view of the need for greater supervision of the spending of funds collected in the price of fuel which, as far as we have heard from the Minister himself, will not cause any increase in the price of oil processing on the market, funds are intended for the cost of the purchase, storage and refurbishment of oil supplies, and in this respect, the establishment of the agency is also proposed. The need for the establishment of an agency to deal with the purchase and sale of oil, its derivatives, for the purpose of forming and restoring supplies and for the purpose of spending funds for that purpose is undeniable. Thus, the Agency is obliged to establish compulsory stocks of 90 daily consumption, which should be gradually increased in accordance with Article 26 of this Act, ending until 31 July 2012. Allow a few words about the bio "Diesel" that has been mentioned so far in the debate. The fact is that the production of bio "Diesela" in Croatia, and we can especially boast that nothing and the first plant in the area of the town of Ozlja in the Karlovo County for the processing of oil rape into bio "Diesel", the first arrangements with agricultural producers for the production of rape oil were concluded so that Croatia will almost certainly meet its mandatory use obligations was "Diesel". Given everything that has been happening today in the world oil market since the Iraq war, the current developments in Iran and the drastic increase in prices of crude oil on the world market, the Croatian Government felt that a law should be proposed that regulates oil supply quality, its derivatives and will ensure that our citizens' supply is secure and government intervention is able to intervene in order to protect consumers and prescribe the highest price for certain oil products, and in order to protect and standard our citizens. A bit of a surprise today is the big concern of the former government's representative for the standard of citizens when we remember the proposal recently to introduce 60 bits of excise duty in the price of oil products for the restructuring of Croatian railways. The current government has found reserves within the budget and has settled these funds without increasing fuel prices, and this is where the current government's social sensitivity is manifested. For all this, I support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64944	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64945	Look, this government has not found any additional funds for modernising Croatian railways, but has given up the proposal to allocate 60 limes per litre of fuel to modernize Croatian railways and stop the modernisation of Croatian railways. The modernisation of the Croatian Railways is gone, so when we enter the European Union, then we will maintain the railways, and our railways will be driven by those who win the international competition, and it will certainly not be Croatian railways because by then they will not be modernised, so we will again be driven by Hungarian railways, Austrian railways, Slovenian railways, maybe Serbian railways if they are modernised by then, but Croatians will not, because this government will not be able to do so because the project has given up, because it is prolonging it before the Croatian Parliament and because you voted for the prolongation.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64946	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64947	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The oil and oil products market is one of the most sensitive issues of the modern world and the world economy in general and any change in that market has a major impact on the economy, stability and the country's security and strategic position as a whole. We are witnessing the bitter reactions of all our society's entities and the very hint of an increase in oil prices or oil derivatives. It is precisely because of this sensitivity and dependence of all the structures of society by turning to oil and oil products markets that the issue of good legal regulation of this issue is of paramount importance because good and effective legal basis can ensure stability and mitigate the consequences of sudden disturbances in this market. The existing legal regulation of oil and petroleum products markets is not in line with the European Union directives and a new law has been proposed to comply with European legislation which will remove the observed shortcomings in the applicable Law on the market in oil and petroleum products from 2001. The new law also incorporates certain provisions, provisions so far on mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products. The paper also includes the establishment of an Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products, whose main task is the organisation of stockpiling, efficient management and supervision of the storage of these stocks. The new law also provides for the establishment and way of working and financing of the Agency for Mandatory Stocks. The most important issue in this area is certainly the issue of establishing the price of oil and petroleum products. This issue is governed by Article 7 of the new law, which states that prices are determined in accordance with market conditions but in order to protect consumers, regulate the market and preserve the country's energy stability, the law provides for a way to determine the highest level of individual oil derivatives. The calculation for the determination of the maximum price of oil derivatives shall be based on measurable market elements and shall be prescribed by the Minister by the Regulation. In addition to the ministry's obligation to care and control the safe, regular and quality supply of consumers with these most important energy products, the law also provides for the possibility of intervention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the event of unexpected domestic market disturbances. The penalties provided for in this law do not comply with the provisions of this law range from high financial amounts to the prohibition of the exercise of activity and that both for the legal person and for the responsible person of the legal entity and that is the guarantee that they will comply with the law. If administrative and inspection supervision is added, we have reason to believe that this law will be implemented in practice and that its provisions will give the expected effects. I think it is also necessary to stress that this law is therefore in line with the European Union rules, with the Energy Act and the Strategic Stocks Act, and I propose that it be adopted by an urgent procedure because all the laws that comply with the European Union rules are adopted in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64948	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64949	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! First of all, in principle, I would like to address two important issues. One question is actually to get the finally environmentally acceptable fuel produced in our refineries. It makes no sense to adopt a proposal for the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products and, among other things, not to resolve this issue and to finally comply in this segment with the regulations of the European Union. So, if there are programmes then I see no reason why in this law, among other things, it is not indicated until when or when Croatia will definitely have to comply with the production of oil derivatives and the use of oil derivatives on its market in accordance with the European Union. The second question is what I think is necessary. We can discuss that a special law regulates the production of biofuels, that simultaneously regulate the issue of incentives in production was fuel because this production is somewhat more expensive than oil production is now on the market, but that does not mean that it can be and will always be. However, what certainly cannot be that in the single Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products there is no meaning in that question. This law simply lacks that on our market oil that has a biological origin will also be used and that the special law itself will produce, the way of distribution, etc. and use of oil when it comes to Croatia to arrange with us in order to bring ourselves into harmony. And I think that should be indicated in the transitional and final provisions until for two reasons. Let us first comply with the current European Union recommendations. And secondly, to comply with the regulations that will follow after 2010 when it will become a commitment. Of course, in this context, there should be a particular consideration of the issue of incentives through agriculture, through the Ministry of Agriculture, the water industry and forestry related to the planting of fruitoreds, which will allow for the production, production of oil and oil, then the production of bio-dyssels and, of course, the situation of the oil found in us as a second issue. Now allow a few very pragmatic questions that are really to be discussed. You know, these reserves that should be provided as well as the highest levels of the price of certain oil derivatives in our country should not, however, allow this issue to be solely a burden of responsibility for the individual minister regardless of the Ministry of Economy. I personally think that the minister must be given an operational task to prepare the decision-making proposal, to give an elaborate, etc., to take care of it, to monitor but such a decision should be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, it is later mentioned in some segments not directly as a whole but rather as slow-minded minor decisions which are not really as significant, but let's say that the highest level of price for certain oil derivatives will certainly not be able to do so by the minister himself. Operationally, simply he can formally get the power to do so but indeed he will decide actually by the Government and by means of his representatives at the end of the agency, and in this respect I have an objection to Article 7. The second point that is related here is the question under Article 12. In fact, when it is taken, among other things, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can reduce the amount of necessary mandatory supplies up to 25% at the expense of domestic production of petroleum products, then if we had the bio-dyssel law, then suddenly the question would be actually asked, and what are our reserves provided for in this law. What does it mean to reduce 90 daily consumption now? Or that's three months if we take over 4.5 million tons a year, we spend oil times divided into 12. It's about 400 thousand tons times three months, it's a million and 200 thousand tons should have or somewhere around a million tons should have minimum reserves. So let's take that we have 10% bio diesel, that's 400 grand, let's take 25% of the total consumption of our consumption. Then what are the reserves? So what are the operational reserves and the strategic reserves that we'll have if the government can have this kind of power? So, we have to ask here very seriously some questions that should be raised in this segment so that there is no false interpretation of the law today and that we do not begin to cover ourselves, so we know through bio diesel we have or we do not know through what is in the country, even if we begin to add to the findings that INA uses outside the Republic of Croatia and which, thanks to its daughters, has been able to discover then the question will actually be what of all this will have. I think that should be further specified and clearly seen in this respect. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its It is said: "The mandatory stocking agency is an independent, independent and non-profit public institution."which is not true at all. First, it's established by law. Secondly, the government of the Republic of Croatia has management rights over the agency. Third, the administrative authorities of this agency, such as the Administrative Council, constitute one representative of the Ministry of Finance and three independent experts, with the Office’s representative as the President of the Governing Council. So it's quite clear he's not completely independent. She's government and she's supposed to be government agency for these strategic reserves. And for the simple reason in this respect, there should be a clear view on why government should be? Because, among other things, the government determines the highest level of price or minister, regardless of who it will now be. Therefore, the operational space for the Price Agency is very small, and the operational space to pass it, on the basis of the money to be allocated, can buy oil and will not have to pay this additional fee that the law provides for, and that is to say for itself and ultimately, the government itself can be freed. I therefore think that this issue should be further specified, and in this respect it is necessary to further strengthen the responsibility of both the bodies and the agencies themselves to the government. Not from the point of view of some kind of administrative hierarchical surveillance, but from the aspect of the implementation of this Law. That part wasn't done. It's just missing. Furthermore, my comments are actually related to the issue of this Article 21 concerning Article 125 where it is said that producers and importers of oil products are obliged to pay compensation. And then article 25 says it's 120 kuna at current prices. I have to say, it's very disputable to me for two reasons. First of these 120 kunas, the Agency for Mandatory Stocks and Oil, determines at 120 kuna, while at the same time the 120 kuna affects the height of the final oil price to be determined by the minister. Now the burden of responsibility will fall on the minister and not on the Agency. I think these issues that are needed for the reserves too will depend on the strategic price of oil. And that, in this respect, the lower and upper borders should be determined by the Government, or by the Registrar, and by the Agency, depending on the market... During a certain period of time, it is actually necessary to swim between that space and it should be adequately managed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I also have objections to some of the questions that are of nomotechnical and operational nature at first sight. For example, Article 29 states: “The minister of the rules referred to in Article 10(3), Article 12(6) and Article 13(3) of this Law will adopt within 6 months of the date of its entry into force. First, I think it's an absolutely long time. The more the law establishes the agency itself. In 30 days, the Government will appoint an administrative council. This will be adopted by the Administrative Council within 3 months by the Statute and other general acts. Then what exactly will the Minister of Six Months bring these implementing regulations? He needs a much shorter deadline. That's number one. And number two doesn't need a minister to be loaded and powers that under the law don't actually give him. It is not said, among other things, in Article 12(6), that this implementing regulation will be adopted by the Minister but by the Government. Therefore, the Government cannot now give the Minister here and at the same time ignores the fact because I will be free to remind, quote Article 12, which explicitly states in paragraph 6: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia will, in the case of Article 11, paragraph 1 of this Act, make a decision on how to use it." Therefore, the Minister cannot now commit himself and bring such a burden here and, in addition, it has forgotten the transitional and final provisions of the Government. And all these questions that I mentioned both individually and in principle show in fact no matter what we can do about the actuality of the moment, but we need to be aware that by this law that we are going to pass we are not to the end of this area,... comply with Council of Europe's documents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, that they are still partially missing. In part, I have great understanding because they had to prepare, make and do in a short time and that we will have to make an amendment and supplement of the law that we will actually further regulate this area in order for it to be comprehensive, comprehensive and ultimately contentable in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64950	Thank you. 10.41 hours have elapsed for 10 minutes on this agenda point. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64951	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Paradoxically, today we are talking about having to have a strategic supply of oil and oil derivatives at the level of 90-day average consumption in Croatia when we have to have it now. Today we have to have this because, according to each responsible state, there are strategic supplies, and these strategic supplies are for the country's reaction and action and for the functioning of the state, means all parts of the state, the state system, the population, the 90-day economy. And that means stockpiles of oil and oil derivatives at 90 days level and all other essential things that serve the needs of the state. Namely, strategic supplies are used to react to three situations. The first situation is in the case of war and direct threat to the independence and unity of the state. The second situation is related in the case of both natural and environmental disasters. And the third situation is in the case of the so-called so-called. extraordinary circumstances or various disturbances on the world or domestic market, and this is precisely about oil. And we don't have it today. And we should have. We've had these documents planned, the defenses say they should have since 1991. I mean the defense plan and all those components that are still in effect today. So we were in 1991. And now we find out that we don't have it. So I ask who's responsible for that part? Who's responsible for the state's lack of oil and oil products at a 90-day average consumption rate right now? And wrongly, Mr. Linic said that we have like these strategic supplies for defence purposes. We do not have them because when the strategic supplies for the need for defence are not only for supplies for the needs of the Croatian military, for the purpose of the other parts of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia, but also for the needs of the population and for the needs of the economy and all other parts. So the sad fact is, nobody's responsible here, but we don't have a stash. Not to mention what the situation is about stockpiles. And why do we need those supplies? Why don't we have them here today? We need to answer them first. We had them, and now, where did those supplies of interest go? Where did those supplies go? Did they disappear as part of the privatisation of INA when it started? Are these stocks that were and were to be presented at 90 days level shown in the price of the INA or not shown or were there various other situations? So someone should be responsible for this, and there should be no such situation as is happening in terms of the price of oil and oil derivatives on the world market and also on the domestic market. And if we had these supplies, the government could react quite differently, quite simply, to all these disturbances on the world market related to oil and oil derivatives because these stocks are very much for reacting in such situations. It is reacted and then it would be much easier to make this part of the determination to reach the question of determining the highest level of price of oil derivatives on the market in these most unfavourable conditions because then the state reacts and gives these supplies so as to protect the standard of Croatian citizens and enable them to maintain such a price that will not go so hard on the standard of Croatian citizens. And automatically when he gets and renovates those supplies, watching what the price is on the world market. And we don't have it now. That's what we're going to have in 2012, and no one said who was responsible for that part. I was in 2001 when the first crisis was current, when as the former government tried something, when it was seen that we had no supplies in 2001 to be seen and then they said they would have to have 15 days. I've been publicly sending letters, reacting that according to the documents of defence and national security strategies we must always have. No one has ever responded, and today it is interesting that neither Mr Linic nor those who were in power at that time will answer why we do not have these supplies at the level of 90-day average consumption for the needs of Croatian citizens. This is the most important question for me today to get that answer, to get a response from the Croatian public and to finally start to act responsibly and therefore it is not true that we must have these supplies because it is necessary to bring this into line with the legal gains of the European Union, as the reasons have already been put here. That is what we must have now and therefore the question of this responsibility why we have it, and as it stands here, we will only have it in 2012. That's what bothers me, too. This is what needs to be answered and to the Croatian public why we do not have it. We should have and that's exactly what registries are for in all these situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64952	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64953	Well, here I am correcting my colleague Kovacevic's incorrect claim that there is no oil in the stock. I think my colleague Kovacevic keeps thinking that this is the time we inherited from the previous government. But here, responsible as chairman of the Stocker's Council, I can say that the situation is very different, and what I'm interested in is how my colleague Kovacevic knows this information when all this information has a code of state secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64954	Dear Representative Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64955	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just going to say a very short few words about this proposal for a law on the oil and oil market. In fact, in the opening statement of Mr. Minister, and in the debates, colleagues have said a lot, so I don't think it should be repeated. The fact that this is a good instrument that enables the Government in view of market opportunities and the trend of constant growth and price increases of oil and oil derivatives, in order to avoid these energy or oil shocks so that they can be intervened in such a way as to ensure and safeguard these laws and thus clearly determine the role and obligations of all participants in this chain of production, procurement, distribution of oil and oil derivatives. And I had one question, one question which was removed during the debate, and that question was also the elevator which was here the minister said would go a new bill that I welcome not only about the bio diesel, but I also think that for other alternative forms of energy we should come at as soon as possible appropriate proposals. Because we are aware that we cannot base, or that today's civilization cannot base its economic development, and also the high standard of its citizens on cheap oil, on cheap diesel fuel and other derivatives that we have from oil. The fact that due to the sudden industrialisation of large countries such as China and India, and also because of certain crisis hotspots in the Middle East, it is expected that the price of oil and oil derivatives will rapidly increase and certainly not have appropriate instruments such as this bill proposal, as well as without certain laws and incentives for more investment in alternative energy sources, and I think that in Croatia we have ideal conditions for the thermal energy that can be used for public buildings in the entire area of our coast, because we have one warm sea and I think all hotels and public facilities can be used as heat energy that, through these heat pumps, also solar energy, and I think that there and in the Construction Act should be condition that these alternative energy sources are used as much as possible. In the end and of course they would be used to subsidize them. Here's a little practical question, I don't know if it's settled by some regulation or by law, but it's a question of marking certain types of fuel on gas stations. Here's the other day I'm familiar with a fact that often appears on our gas stations especially in the summer months when a large number of our tourists, our guests, are coming and there are big confusions. Namely, because of the inadequate, or not standardised way of marking certain types of fuel in their countries, domicile countries and in Croatia, to pour diesel instead of gasoline, or instead of diesels pour gasoline. So there is one concrete example where a man told me that at one station it is close to the highway exit, that in the summer months there are at least one or two cases of fuel pumping out of the tank, so I would also ask the public that something in this sense is done to ensure that we have a uniform way of marking fuel, not only for individual manufacturers, or fuel distributors on certain pumps, but also for it to be consistent with the practice that is in the European Community. Here, in any case, I support this bill and of course I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64956	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64957	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me briefly join the debate on the proposal for this law. So my opinion is that there is no parliament in a world where, sooner or later, at this time, there is no such and similar debate, which is understandable. Because all economies in all countries of the world, unfortunately, are based mostly on one energy, which is oil. And this normally creates dependence on oil sources that are, in most cases, not in these countries, but in certain countries in the world. Here's to start with, I'm going to read you a piece of the news that I downloaded on the Internet, which is quite illustrative. It's a story about a cab driver from Karakas, Venezuela who spends 72 liters of gasoline a day. And how much does he pay for gas? Believe it or not, $2.3 or 13 kuna for 72 liters. So a liter of gasoline costs 18 limes. A taxi driver speaks commenting on the world's oil-related events. Thinking about North America, he's saying so those gringos have everything. Then why is their gas so expensive? Don't they have reserves? Venezuela is the 5th oil exporter in the world and currently have the cheapest gasoline in the world, and cheap gasoline is considered the right to be born in Venezuela. The last attempt to raise the price of gasoline ended in a rebellion and bloodshed that killed at least 300 people, perhaps several thousand. The news therefore concludes that this oil price problem has a strong social and economic dimension. So, not only in countries that are dependent on oil imports, but also in countries that own oil. That's right in Croatia. We can only remind ourselves that within a few years, the price of oil has doubled in several years in Croatia. And we know that the price of oil in the price chain is very important. Here also this cab driver tells us about it, the question is whether gringos don't have reserves. Here we are not gringos, they do not live in Croatia. We also don't have reserves, strategic reserves like not some other country in the world, but circumstances in the world, crises that occur almost every day, after the Middle East occur and the crisis in South America occurs. Here, we're only on our way today to try to solve this problem, i.e. to establish our strategic reserves. As far as this law is concerned, which is here, I support its intensity. Strategic reserves are one of the essential conditions, therefore, in order to stabilise oil prices, the price of gasoline. But I think we have to have a strategy that would solve this problem more long-term. So I support the intensity of this law, but I also agree with those who therefore warn that the adoption of laws in that form does not raise the price of gasoline or oil, but rather the opposite. If there are already already and now or before such provisions that the formation of the reserve involves therefore in the budget I think it should change that, that we should put in another item, so that we and these excise duties are free so that we can further lower that price of gasoline. I think that these measures are currently partial, fire-fighting and that we need a longer-term and more complex, so a more comprehensive strategy, a strategy that would also include strategic reserves, so as an important segment to preserve the price of oil, i.e.. It's gasoline. I also agree with those who talk about the need to greatly improve production at domestic sources, so in our oil extraction sites. That this should be improved qualitatively and quantitatively. In order for such a percentage of 25% to be higher. And also, what I am particularly emphasising and what should be done in a way, which we should work on, unfortunately, to this day very little has been done, these are alternative sources of energy. That's where I primarily think about the diesel fuel part. Croatia is the perfect country for the production of biodiesel fuel. From Međimurje to Like, from Slavonia to Karlovec there are vast spaces, unfortunately some of these spaces are abandoned which could therefore be used to produce biodiesel fuel. Let me just point out the benefits of biodiesel fuel. They proved to be the most valuable form of renewable energy sources. They can be used in different forms and technology percentages. The energy value is equal to the fuels produced from mineral raw materials. And most importantly, part of the fuel is almost completely harmless to the environment. I know it's familiar to all of you, but I think it's very important to stress that one more time. As far as the European Union is concerned, they have an obligation not to end it, not 9 or 10, but by the end of 2006, to have a commitment by the end of 2006, so these, therefore, have an obligation to distribute their fuels in such a way as to contain at least 5% of biodiesel. This must happen by the end of this year, and in 15 years their fuel must have at least 20% of their biodiesel. What about Croatia? Croatia has not produced a single liter of biodiesel fuel to this day. Oil rape produced in the Republic of Croatia at some 16 thousand hectares is mainly exported to Austria, Israel and Belgium, almost 70%. And it's very likely that in these countries exactly the base of the turnip is produced exactly by biodiesel fuel. This makes Croatia a direct loser. Because the seed of the oiled rape is subsidized, there are incentives. And instead of being processed in Croatia, the tail is directed through the redeemer to export. So the damage is double. I don't think we can afford it ourselves. Here, let me finish. So I support the intensity of this law to form strategic reserves as one of the essential segments of stabilization of oil and gasoline prices, but I also warn that it is one, in fact, only one segment. If we want to stabilise gas prices in the longer term, then we will have to rely more on domestic oil sources, and in particular we need to develop alternative energy sources for which I repeat Croatia has ideal conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64958	Thank you. We're going to a five-minute debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64959	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. This proposal for a law has brought into line with European Union directives, thus achieving greater security of supply and oil derivatives, which is very important in view of developments in the world oil market. This law defines more precisely the obligation of an obligation to hold operational oil supplies, which are entities dealing with the production of thermal electricity from petroleum products. In addition to this bill, the current regulation with mandatory oil supplies has been included, and this has nothing to do with strategic supplies, it is something else. So it's a mandatory supply of oil and oil derivatives and it's also correcting the lack of a regulation regarding criminal provisions for those who don't, who don't hold the necessary supplies or manipulate them. In view of the need for greater supervision of the spending of the funds collected in the fuel price intended for the costs of storage and purchase and refurbishment of oil and petroleum products, it is proposed that the Agency be set up. The need for the establishment of an agency to deal with this activity is undeniable, so that it is planned and envisaged to form mandatory oil supplies at the level of... daily consumption, which should be gradually increased in accordance with Article 26 of this Act and fully until 31 July 2012. Let me say a few words about the biodiesel, even though the biodiesel is not the subject of this law. Article 2(2) defines exactly what oil is. But it is not true that nothing is done at this time in Croatia for the production of biodiesel. We have in Ozlja, so near Karlovac before the opening of the plant for the production of biodiesel from the oily turnip. The first contracts were also concluded with the oil turnip producers and so I believe that it will be very soon in operation. Let me also refer a little bit to the comments of my colleagues from the SDP Club on the social insensitivity of this government. I think that should have been thought of when 25% of INAs were sold plus one share, and they donated 50% of the management rights, so they automatically reduced the possibility of this government affecting the price of fuel. It was also mentioned about this topic, this government avoided an increase in the price of oil and oil derivatives by 60 limes per litre of fuel proposed by the SDP club to increase fuel prices for the purpose of restructuring the Croatian Railways and it is not exactly as counterpart Stazic said that the restructuring of the Croatian Railways had been planned more than twice as much in the budget for this year for the restructuring of Croatian Railways than it was during the former government. In view of all that has been happening today on the world oil market since the Iraq war, from tension with Iran, from a drastic increase in prices of crude oil on the world market, the Croatian Government felt that a law should be proposed that would regulate oil supply, its derivatives and ensure greater security in its supply as well as the protection of the standards of our citizens. Due to all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64960	Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64961	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, you said completely incorrectly that I sell 25% plus one of the INA shares... that the government cannot influence together with Parliament, I will add social sensitivity to the prices of derivatives here in Croatia. This is also proof of the law that was discussed here in the Croatian Parliament yesterday, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Special Tax on Oil Products, where the Government is just introducing excise duties and special taxes shows how it can affect the prices of derivatives. Therefore, what you have said is simply pointless, and the union warnings on the Croatian railways that traffic safety is questionable, that the work on the Croatian railways has been questioned because of the lack of wagons shows that the government may not have given up on the modernisation of Croatian railways, but unfortunately it does it very slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64962	Final review, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64963	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, thank you for coming and discussing and suggestions and opinions about this really important law. Once again, I want to say, one of the particulars of this law is the mandatory stock, and once again I want to say these are not the supplies used in the event of a war, in the event of some kind of disaster, these are supplies that are related to the supply of the oil market and oil derivatives. This is a large amount and the European Union has just through its directive established this amount of 90 daily stock based on the average of last year, but since we know what today is about energy especially with oil and oil derivatives, I think these mandatory supplies are exactly the obligation of each state and government to provide through such supplies in some way all citizens in terms of supplying these products, i.e. oil and petroleum products. These stocks are not to affect energy prices or to be used for this, but to ensure stability and security of supply due to possible disorders that do not have to be repeated, caused by higher force, war situation, catastrophic situation etc. What is next important, what I want to point out in the end, was a few discussions about the quality of fuel, about the labels of various types of derivatives. Therefore, the government adopted at the pre-session of regulations that are not proposed by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship but by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, where exactly what types of fuel are and exist, which marks are, therefore, on the Croatian market. It is also defined until these types of fuels that INA produces with a higher amount of sulphur are consistent with the plan of modernising the refinery, etc. Therefore, the regulation accurately specifies both the production, i.e. the type of bio- diesel fuel and the amount and liabilities until when the quantities should be made in Croatia. What is the task of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, which is practically responsible for the Bio-Diel project, is to regulate all issues with a special law, many issues from production, from therefore, the Bio-Disel refinery to the market and not only part-Disel but also other types of energy. And what I'm saying in the end, the consequence of this law is not an increase in the price of oil and oil derivatives. Therefore, there will be no price hikes because the current price now contains a part of the price related to the mandatory stocks that we have today and that is the plan, so somewhere around 60 days of stock and from next year, so from this year to 2012 there should be estimated 90-day supplies. And I think that in this direction the assumption was created, made to allow for the existence of these stocks without any, I repeat, the financial adverse consequences or the rise of prices for the citizens. And it wouldn't be good if it were a message to the public that there was going to be some price hike or that we were still talking as some suggest, that we go out of the budget and finance these supplies. It's fair to say that supplies are funded by those who consume oil and oil derivatives. And that part in the price already exists, and that part through the price will now only be uniquely allocated to the Agency that will worry and worry that supplies exist, to care, to be kept, to be renewed and to have a 90-day supply constantly, clearly since 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64964	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. The amendment was submitted by SDP representative club and representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go, Minister. Minister Branko Vukelic. Amendment 1 to the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64966	The SDP's amendment to rule out the price, therefore, of mandatory supplies from the price of oil derivatives and to delete that article is unacceptable, the government rejects it. Namely, in the production prices of petroleum products, and now there is a fee for mandatory oil and oil products supply, and I now repeat this law by means of a repeat law, and it will not again increase the price of oil and oil derivatives from current existing prices, but only this amount will be rerouted to the agency's account, which will take care of supplies, compulsory supplies of oil and petroleum products.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64967	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64968	So in fact, we propose to delete Article 5 of Article 7 by thinking that the current high price of oil will not stop, that it will tend to grow. So since all taxes are therefore both VAT and excise duties, the revenue of the budget is proposed that both the Agency's work on compulsory supplies and the mandatory supply of oil and petroleum products can then be financed from the budget. And then we can regulate the final price of oil derivatives. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64969	Thank you. Molly, there's a vote to vote on. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 22 for the amendment, 4 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64970	Also, this amendment is not accepted by the Government in the context of the arguments I have given for the previous amendment, and, therefore, I repeat the fact that this law will not cause and this part of the fee for compulsory supplies is now in the existing prices of oil and oil derivatives. So it won't cause a price increase. And besides, it is a far more just way, so that compulsory supplies are financed from the money of those who are consumers, so through the price of oil derivatives as so far. Not from a budget where practically all citizens in Croatia would be bonds to allocate funds for insurance or compulsory supplies.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64971	SDP club, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64972	A similar explanation is similar to that of the previous amendment. In fact, all taxes on oil derivatives are revenue from the budget and it is not abnormal that supplies are then financed from that income. And that doesn't mean that all citizens would actually finance it, because in the good part these taxes are the revenue of the budget. On the other hand, it's not, we think it's not true that it doesn't affect the price. Of course it affects if it is part of the retail price and how much oil prices and the basic price of the oil product then by upgrade and such, these parts of the price, of course the total price will be so much higher. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64973	Please vote. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 22 for, 3 abstentions, 65 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of Representative Nenad Stazic, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64974	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The amendment proposes that one of the basis for the calculation of oil derivatives prices be the price of oil quotation from domestic sources or the price of crude oil, which we consider practically impossible. In fact, then we would really have one non-transparent way of determining the price of oil derivatives. If we want to, and I think that we have opted for a market economy, so the market is the only one that regulates prices that are based on price fixing, and the pricing of the exploitation of crude oil, domestic crude oil would require a methodology that would neither be transparent nor be possible to determine what is the real price of raw domestic oil.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64975	Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64976	Ministers of the amendment ask for two things. First, the price of oil derivatives is determined by the price of crude oil on the world market, not by the price of derivatives. That's one thing. Another is required to include in the price of derivatives the price of oil from domestic sources in the calculation of the product price. She's about $20 a barrel. We now sell to citizens, INA or Croatian citizens their oil that costs INA 20 dollars per barrel as if it buys 70 dollars. It is in conditions where oil prices are so high, extremely unfair to the citizens of this country, you appreciate that it is their oil, not the government's oil, not the INA oil, not the prime minister's oil, minister or anyone else. And if the price of oil, crude oil on the world market was about as much as the cost of exploiting domestic oil, then no such amendment would be necessary. But when that difference is almost $50 a barrel, then forgive me, it's a civil robbery. I therefore ask for a vote on this because this amendment shows what the real relationship is with both the government and the representatives of the country's citizens who pay for that gas, who pay dearly for their own ore treasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64977	Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? 24 for the amendment, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 votes for, 5 abstentions, 4 against the proposed law on the oil and oil market. My colleague Racan, you voted the same way with the key? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Voting with a key as a key novel. So that anyone would generally think to deny the right to individual access.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64980	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On 28 May this year we celebrate the 15th anniversary of the existence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. This is exactly the occasion where we want to honor the troops and other formational units of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Interior for their outstanding contribution and credit in the Homeland War. The important Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, however, stipulates that the honours and recognitions of the Republic of Croatia are granted to Croatian and foreign citizens and legal persons. Since units and other structural units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior do not have legal personality status, amendments and additions to the Law on Delicacies and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia by emergency procedure are proposed. Furthermore, let us not forget that all regions participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia against aggression and the creation of an independent and free state. In the first row through the formation of its domestic units from which it was built and from which the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia developed. And just now, the jubilee of the establishment of the Croatian Army and the MUP troops are the occasions in which all our Croatian regions, municipalities and cities remember their defenders. These are the dates in which honor and recognition are paid to the surviving members of the unit and the duty to drink and to thank the families of the dead. One of the appropriate ways to give recognition is to award the highest state-level medals that so far could only be obtained by individuals and legal persons, but not by units as a whole, so this Law creates a legal basis that will now enable it. In short, what are the changes? The proposed amendments allow the award of the distinctions and recognitions of the Republic of Croatia with the exception of Croatian and foreign nationals and legal persons and units and other structural units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the MUP for exceptional courage and heroic act in war, direct war danger or in special circumstances in peace, and for an exceptional contribution to the creation of a war strategy and military doctrine, merits in the construction of the Armed Forces and special successes in the management and command of troops and other structural units of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and of the MUP. In short, it is possible to assign the following qualities that exist in this Law, but now we extend them to the Armed Forces units. The Order of Prince Domagoj with a necklace for witnessed courage and heroism, the Order of Nikola Šubić Zrinski for a heroic act in war, direct war danger or in exceptional circumstances in peace. Order of the Croatian Trolist for special merits for the Republic of Croatia as well as the order of Ban Jelačić, which is awarded to units and other structural units for special military merits in their formation and development. We have another addition in this Bill proposal, which proposes to delete the Memorial of Homeland Gratitude as the medals of the Republic of Croatia, which was established by the current 1995 Law to be granted to Croatian citizens, therefore, to all. Not only in state services, all Croatian citizens for honorable and model service for a period of 5, 10, 15, 20 and more years. The application of this distinction in practice has created a lot of misunderstandings. This normized provision referred to automation and multiple assignments in accordance with the work experience achieved. Although the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia referred to all Croatian citizens of the Monuments of Homeland Gratitude to the greatest extent were awarded to members of the Armed Forces. It is not disputed that this award had great motivational importance in the first years of establishment, primarily because it was awarded for the period of the Homeland War and the time when special human efforts were sought to carry out daily tasks and extremely important for the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers as proposing this Law that there is no further need for this award for the reason that the honorable and model service in the field of defence, for example, covers all members of the armed forces except those who are unlawfully fired from the service. In view of this fact and the award of this distinction to persons every 5 years, the question of the very purpose of having such a feature for 10 years after the end of the Homeland War is raised. In drawing up the draft of this Law, we have carefully considered other proposals, but we believe that eradicating this feature is most appropriate and I would like to clarify possible misunderstandings for such formulated provisions. Legal consequences arise only, i.e. only by way of a measure of effect on this Act and the law does not have retroactive application, so all those to whom the Motherland Thanksgiving monument has been awarded over the years had the right to bear and to point out on the occasion of the ceremony in the manner prescribed by the Law on Delicacies and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Rules on Features and Recognitions and the Rules of Procedure of the National Gratification. Finally, it is also important to point out the practical fact that the country's honour monument for the defence ministry's employees has not been awarded since 2002. Other amendments to the law concern nomotechnical harmonisation and the addition of certain legal provisions in accordance with the existing provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the applicable legal regulations. Gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64981	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64982	I'm correcting an incorrect allegation of the esteemed Mr. Secretary of State who says that the Motherland's Thanksgiving monument was intended to be granted by automatism or by law enforcement. That is incorrect because the Motherland Thanksgiving monument President Tudjman himself asked for and the law says "for honorable and model service". So it's not automation and it's not law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64983	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, legislation. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go. Excuse me, but where is our Committee on Internal Policy? ... Where's the report? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Wait a minute, we'll see. Yeah, yeah. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64984	Mr. President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 66th session held on 9 May 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which it is proposed to adopt the law in question by emergency procedure. The proposer's representative states that this legislative proposal allows for the award of certain distinctions and units and other structural units of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior which, under the applicable Law on Census and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, was not possible. The Committee supported the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and does not object to the proposal for the adoption of this Act by an urgent procedure. Furthermore, the Committee also supported the reasons for the applicant for the adoption of this Act because it considers that the proposed legislative amendments and additions will remove the indeterminateness of the applicable law. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law and amendments to the Act on Delicacies and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64985	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64986	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The first thing I have to say is that it is good that the government has seen its mistake because it was first sent to the regular procedure of the Amendment and supplementation of this Act, and it is true that it is the 28th of May 15 years of the formation of the Croatian Armed Forces and, in the reasons and then it has been said that it is going to amend and supplement the law because it is the 28th of May, or 15 years since the formation of the Armed Forces, because that day we took it, there were more than one date involved in determining the Day of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. One was also on April 17th when the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Internal Affairs and when the National Guard Assembly was established, that is, on April 20th when the president, the late president of the state, decided on the establishment of 4 active and 8 reserve brigades of the National Guard Assembly, but still took place on May 28th when the first lineup was made at Zagreb's stadium on Kranjčević's street. I was in the Working Group in '95. It has been working in violation of the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, and it is evident that this Law is of quality, here is the first amendment to the following meaning after 11 years. It was true that it was still being considered whether to go with troops and institutions, or other structural units of the armed forces and the Ministry of the Interior, but the president himself said that, the deceased, we would have to go in the second phase because this is a word, so the law was passed in March of '95, and then there were actions both "Blash" and "Storm" release means then occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia. The HSP Club also supports this part of the amendments and the addition of laws related to the award of distinctions and recognitions to both units and other structural units of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the MUP, but you should now and write it as you think. So you were supposed to put in war and peace units, because you say there's no retroactive action in the law, now you're talking about the monument. So how are you going to assign war troops if there is no retroactive act of the law? Well, then you need to put the meanings of the war and peace forces of the armed forces, because these units of war that we are talking about and who need, which are designed for the award of the medal in this third dictation, are not contained. It is said "the troops and other structural forms of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia". All these units are no longer in mobilization, they're not in the form of armed forces, so correct that part and put it on your own that they're military units. So that's the first part if you want to do it. And what you want, and none of us here, don't mind. But we can't agree on this, and I believe most of the MPs, I've also talked to my colleagues about the Homeland Thanksgiving Memorial. We can agree that you will say that there will be no more Motherland Thanksgiving. That's where we can agree. But nowhere in the world is it meant to be decorated. You can go, that's why I gave the amendment. It remains a tribute to the Motherland's Thanksgiving, but it is said in the provisions that this medal will no longer be awarded. Because that's how it's done out there. It's an example of America, and France, and it's the countries that we are, where we're honors and confessions when we've been doing the law now. And for us here, there's a lot of people who got the Homeland Thanksgiving Memorial, so in 1995 when it was the first assignment. I can say that we are offended by this part, he says, your argument says: "This distinction was established in the early years of the creation and development of an independent state of Croatia." The area of award of this type is today arranged in various activities through collective agreements and other acts. What do you mean, what we got has the character of a collective contract? Well, the very diction was for honorable and model service. Therefore, not everyone could have gotten it in 1995 and it was never intended for that part of automation. And don't go wipe out the Motherland's Thanksgiving note, but, and that's why I've given the amendment, say that the Motherland Thanksgiving will no longer be granted. That's what you're doing out there. If a medal is determined not to be awarded, then it will not be awarded, but it remains in the country’s list of honours but is not granted because it is also a legally slightly different situation. That someone shows up with the Mother's Communion, and there's no more honor in the law. And if you look at these other provisions when you can wear medals, when you can stand out because it's all settled by the applicable law. Therefore, this is the flaw that needs to be addressed. It's not a large number, it's not even won in Croatia, about 30 grand according to my knowledge. Thus, it was never what it was and said that the decorations were shared with hand and hat. It's the most shared Homeland War Memorial, but we need to know two differences there. It was the Memorial of the Homeland War 1990/1992. and the Memorial of the Homeland War, which was established in 1995. Homeland War Remarks 1990/1992 It didn't get so many people, it got few people because it was then established by a regulation with legal power. And that was the only medal that was awarded until 1995. So, the HSP Club, subject to the adoption of the amendment, is bound to remain in the list of state honours of the National Gratitude Monuments but no longer to be awarded, can support this law. If not, then we won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64987	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative, Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64988	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the amendment and addition of the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia by an urgent procedure because we believe it is of great importance that the units involved in the Homeland War are allowed by this law to be also decorated because individuals from these units are many decorated but the unit as a whole is not. Secondly, it is also a recognition to all those who were members of these units and were not personally decorated because through such a collective recognition and collective distinction this recognition was granted to them. We consider it of utmost importance and we absolutely support it. Secondly, when it comes to Article 23, which is the Memorial of Homeland Gratitude, we also object to it being a medal, a medal to be awarded by automation. There's no mark assigned to automatism, so there's no need for this either. We therefore propose to the promoter not to delete Article 23 from the law but to reshape it in such a way that it is assigned just for honorable and model service but not to be in the time limit of five, ten, fifteen, twenty, fifty, so I don't know how many years, and then one man gets by that automation and three, four and five Remarks of Homeland Gratitude that we are then simply creating it from one serious medal of hyperproduction and thus devaluing it. We therefore propose to the promoter to see the possibility to remain but not with this age as it writes here, but to really be one of the medals that will be given to Croatian citizens for honorable and model service, and point. So to work it out then in that sense, what are the criteria and how it will be supported. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64989	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64990	Thank you very much. First of all, something about the way this law comes. He was first sent to the regular procedure, and then he was withdrawn from the regular procedure and was sent to the emergency procedure. It's May 28th. It's an opportunity. But when the government referred the first proposal to the procedure, I guess she knew about it on May 28th, or she didn't know. So it's a little weird that the government that's sending the bill doesn't know that it's going to need the law already on May 28th, but then pulls it back and sends it to emergency procedures. In one word, shame and unnecessary. Second thing, do they need troops to win. So let them have it. No one's against it. Article 23 where this Motherland Thanksgiving Memorial is deleted. What are we gonna... Now if we get her out of the law, she won't be assigned anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]] Then you will have citizens who have already received the Memorial of Homeland Gratitude, then some others who are their contemporaries have worked as well as role models but have not received. Does this mean now that these monuments of homeland gratitude are the ones that are divided are actually worthless when you kick them out of the law? Worthless. Yeah, is there gonna be a rarity? Well, there may be rarity, but in any case, the rites don't create such changes to the law. This is the mockery of one of the medals that gets thrown out of the law. Because the medal that gets thrown out of the law into the law should never have been introduced. You do not treat this with respect for one of the honours that exists in Croatia. And the third and most important thing that was not in this Law, which was supposed to be, and it could have been in time that you sent the law into the regular procedure so that we could get it in two debates, in two readings, until May 28th. Look, we've had the Homeland War. We don't have an institution of Homeland War heroes. We don't have a Homeland War hero. The heroes of the Homeland War only exist on protest posters in Croatia. When it's written "hero and not criminal" for someone. Only on posters like that. And I think it would be necessary for a country that fought a defensive and honorable war. It can't be covered by these regular traits. And now it turns out when we've already waged a defensive and honorable war to have criminals, but we don't have a hero out of that war. We don't have any. Well, gentlemen of the government, if you'd made an effort in time to make a proposal like you didn't, and now you don't have time to correct it, then we might be able to correct this illogicality that exists in an adequate way. It's a good deal to discuss here, to set the criteria, but at the end of that war, we have at least a few heroes. That's my grudge with this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64991	Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64992	My dear colleague, you are surprised that the Government does not know about this anniversary and therefore proposes this Law and you say with the right to be ashamed. So what's the surprise of a colleague? Well, this isn't the first time. So remember that bill when the reward was to be given to a person for special children's rights. So twice, three times the law has changed backwards, because there's a government that obviously doesn't have a strategy we know about. That there's no vision we've known before, but there's no calendar that's really happening right now and this news [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64993	Final review of State Secretary Mato Raboteg.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64994	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with indignity, I reject the remark of the distinguished representative Stazic that it is a mockery of the Homeland War. We wanted to preserve the dignity of a state-level medal and prevent its further validation and in this sense we proposed this formulation. At the end of our minds, none of us thought of making fun of each other in any way or making fun of a single medal, a state medal given to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but just to protect its further mutilation. But I thank you for all the well-intentioned remarks and constructive remarks and proposals that the government will carefully consider until the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64995	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64996	Article 109, paragraph 2 of our Rules of Procedure regulates the conduct of the Government's representatives at the Parliament's meeting. The Government's representative represents the government's position, gives notices and expert explanations. A representative of the Government has no right to reject or not to reject what MPs in the Parliament are saying. Mr. President of the Parliament, I would ask you to warn the Prime Minister of this provision of our Rules of Procedure. He and all other representatives of the government who are being repeated, often some of them act in a way that offends this High House. They answer to the Parliament here, answer to all MPs, and they must behave accordingly and properly. Because not only did this kind of behavior embarrass the government, shame and this House, but they embarrassed themselves with this bill of law, as I said, and with this kind of behavior, they were ashamed of themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64997	It is not my view on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because, in addition to this, Article 109(2), which gives the Government's representative a position, gives notices and expert explanations, declares itself to amendments, and similarly has another article, which is 156. The Rules of Procedure also states that paragraph 2 states that a representative of the legislator or representative may give explanations throughout the debate, present his opinions and make known the amendments submitted and the opinions and remarks expressed. Therefore, a representative of the Government may also plead on the opinions and remarks expressed, so here the Prime Minister expressed his opinion and his objection to your assessment of your position as a representative. To which you have the full right to assess and assess certain provisions of this Bill. It is therefore not only a member of the government in the assembly who is empowered to give expert opinions and suggestions but also to give his evaluations and to express his views and remarks on the opinions and remarks made. I am concluding a debate on this text of the bill. We are now going to vote on the debated items of the agenda except for the amendments and additions to the law, the Penal Code. 1., Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Features and Recognitions. The debate on the text of the Law is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline and by representative Pero Kovacevic. You're withdrawing that amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u64999	I'm withdrawing because the government has accepted what I asked for.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65000	Thank you very much. We should now first vote that we will vote, discuss the 4 amendments to the government that have been submitted after the deadline. Please, let's get on with it. We are voting whether or not we will vote and discuss the amendments made by the Government that have been submitted after the deadline. Please. Let's get on with it. Please vote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65001	Well, Mr. President, I don't understand... We did not vote on whether we included this Treaty on the Energy Community in the agenda, but only on an emergency procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65002	Comrade Tadic, that's the Rules of Procedure. When it is proposed that the law be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure, I am obliged to put it in addition to the agenda. The result of this vote previously which we have had to vote on these four amendments and the debates that came after the end. 76 for, 7 abstentions and 8 against. Now in a row. Amendment 1, Article 4 is deleted. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment to the government. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 82 votes for, three abstentions and one against. Amendment adopted. Amendment two. A memorial of national gratitude is given to Croatian citizens for honorable and model service. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 84 votes in favour, 4 abstentions accepted proposed amendment. Amendment three, this law shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the People's Journal. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 86 for, 2 abstentions. Amendment accepted. Amendment 4, Articles 5 to 13 so far, shall become Articles 4 to 12. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Let's get on with it. We can vote. How about a nom technical result? Unanimity. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Features and Recognitions. To vote. The result? With 92 votes in favour, 1 abstention of the proposed law along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65005	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions is one of the most important international instruments that we are submitting to the Croatian Assembly. In fact, let me illustrate her importance with one piece of information. The University of Manchester has conducted a study and has found that at this point in the world, more than 6,000 languages are spoken. The same research has shown that if the observed trend of these tongues disappears continues to lose about 90% of those languages in 50 years. So the active talk would disappear, and in fact, the possible construction of the cultures of the people who used them would disappear. Another information that should be noted is that 96% of the people in that same world use only 4% of those 6000 languages. So one might think that this problem can be easily solved and some institute is established and recorded and kept in the language, but this does not solve the problem of cultural diversity, expressions that arise in the use of these languages. But let me go back to the convention and the objectives set by this Convention, which is to try to call on countries to see the importance of protecting and promoting the diversity of cultural expressions, and also to ensure that they have full sovereignty in winning measures and policies to protect and promote diversity. This Convention aims to encourage dialogue between cultures, to recognise the specific nature of cultural products and services, to try to extract from the treatment so far that in some international contracts concluded under international trade organisations even created possibilities for creation, I would say a monopoly over distribution channels. One of these areas is, of course, an area of audio visual services and products, and therefore this convention has also been linked to the application of these very segments of international trade contracts in its creation and creation. This Convention certainly encourages and strengthens international co-operation and in some ways raises the level of solidarity in the fight against globalisation effects that we can say perhaps even the most devastating for the area of culture. Let me stress just a few parts of the Convention, because I have already said something about principles, that it will set up a committee of intergovernmentals, at intergovernmental levels and try to come up with further measures and also on the principle of volunteering to establish a fund in which funds will be pooled so that actions based on this Convention can be implemented in reality. And I would also like to point out here in the introduction that the Republic of Croatia is in the process of creating an idea of the need for such an instrument being among the first countries, and therefore it should not be surprising that it is among the first to confirm and try to participate in its achievement at international level. If there are any further questions related to the proposal for a convention I will try to help you explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65006	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65007	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On 22 May of this year, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law on the protection and promotion of cultural expressions with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading. The Committee discussed the issues as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The members of the Committee highlighted the special interest of Croatia as well as other small countries, i.e. national communities for the adoption and implementation of the tasks of the Convention, which advocates the survival and development of cultural diversity in the world of economic and overall globalisation, and in particular with regard to market pressure or trade logic in large media. So it's actually about defending what we often talk about, which is a national identity. The Convention provides for the establishment and operation of an international cultural diversity fund. It would encourage and support cultural diversity maintenance programmes and intergovernmental committees at UNESCO level by means of its own resources. It's been said that this fund is voluntary. Therefore, it is not a binding matter for our country's budget. This guarantees the implementation of part of the task by opening the roads and towards the autonomous activity of each of the signatories countries on common presumptions of value which it represents. The important role of Croatia is highlighted in the formulation and adoption of the Convention, which took its form in Paris in 2005 and the clear importance and role of Croatia as one we hope from the first signatories of the Convention to come into force when it was signed by 30 states. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously pointed out the importance of this Convention and reached its conclusion, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Variety of Cultural Expressions in the form proposed by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65008	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HNS's club, a respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65009	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow promoters. Here, we at the HNS Club certainly will support this Act of Confirmation Convention. Of course with one note, we'd prefer it had come before. In this day and age, almost all countries in the international organisation are intensively opening up in cooperation right in the field of culture. International cultural co-operation is developing in different ways and in very different ways. These paths of cultural co-operation disrupt the regular understanding of developmental interests and priorities, as well as of the holders of and cooperation. The countries and international organisations are just some of the holders of international cultural cooperation. There are also a number of institutions at regional, local, level, as well as different alternative organisations in the civil society sphere that co-operate on international projects related to the promotion of cultural expressions, diversity and tolerance. To spread the paths of international culture of cooperation are interested in many countries of the world that seek to preserve and develop their cultural identity and avoid extremes. Global cultural unification on one side. And cultural isolationism on the other hand. The Republic of Croatia is one of these countries. In general, societies and cultures are increasingly networking in a wide range of ways, especially through new information and communication technologies, which contributes to the creation of informal extra-institutional and horizontal forms of interaction and cooperation. In the context of contemporary world and European cultural development ahead of Croatian culture in the 21st century, inclusion in a new way in global development processes that characterize cultural diversity and multiculturalism. The Republic of Croatia aims to encourage cultural cooperation as a developmental multilateral and multimedia activity with different countries and cultural areas. This approach enables the interaction of Croatian culture with all other cultures. The rapid changes that are happening in the world today include new cultural specializations such as: cultural management that should be given very high attention in Croatia in the long term. Croatia's European Union integration course carries with it a series of opportunities for cultural cooperation on a multilateral basis. Europe is a community of culture of important interest in specifics of development such as cultural diversity, careful coordination of different development interests in order to preserve cultural heritage in new conditions. New forms of cultural expression, creativity and communication, as well as the development of such human needs and interests and such culturally designed products and services, which will make this great community less prone to conflict, and increasingly more cooperation and communication of different peoples and cultures. Since we are getting closer and closer to entering the European Union, we are in a hurry to coordinate efforts to respect cultural diversity, as well as efforts to preserve our own cultural heritage in order to avoid fears that Croatian culture will be lost in the sea of different European cultures. Such fears are present in the Republic of Croatia, but also in other countries of the world. Not only for entering different regional alliances and organizations, but also for the overall phenomenon of globalisation. Looking at globalisation as a purely economic or technological phenomenon, we will ignore the impact that this phenomenon has on the social aspect of the state. Globalization affects cultures around the world more and more every day. It is vital to recognise the growing importance of cultural policies as a tool for global cooperation. Modern countries face a new challenge, the need to define such public policies, which will aim to ensure recognition of the expression of cultural diversity co-existing in their territory. The societies are becoming more heterogeneous, and the intense mobility of people and the flow of ideas are the reality of our age. However, there is really no real contradiction between preservation and promotion of cultural diversity, on the one hand and the development of the global market on the other. For example. The market should go hand in hand with the expression of cultural, cultural identity, as cultural diversity could be precisely the source of economic development and employment. In recent years, new initiatives working to create a common space of European culture have been organised in response to the negative effects of globalisation in culture. Such a common space would be an impartial space of communication, exchange of ideas, encounters of diversity, meeting the unknown and different. Cultural diversity is faced with globalisation, primarily with Americanization, cultural industries, and it is necessary to avoid their full leaving to the logic of the market. I think two categories should especially be protected. Audiovisual industries and the book industry, as well as intellectual and artistic property. The convention in this bill focuses on all these problems and provides certain possible solutions in the form of international cultural cooperation that can significantly contribute to the preservation of the cultural heritage of the people. However, I believe that the Republic of Croatia, apart from international co-operation, should also turn to preserving and promoting Croatian culture in the country itself. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But also the foreigners who visit our country. Connecting cultural cooperation with other areas, such as science, education, tourism, environmental protection, etc. It leads to wider cross-sectoral and international co-operation. In the evaluation of the cultural policy of the Republic of Croatia by the experts of the Council of Europe back in '98. The development goal of the year was to connect culture and tourism. Tourism is culture. Which means using Croatian cultural resources as its key advantages. This kind of consideration also resulted in a syntagma of cultural tourism. Modern life has reduced the polarity between work and leisure. A new profile of passengers of special interest appears and shows two basic motives, novelty and education. The concept of cultural tourism combines in terms of culture and tourism. If these two concepts try to imagine themselves in some context at first glance, they seem to be very closely tied and to be very well complemented. It is clear that cultural and cultural heritage contributes to the attractiveness of a particular tourist destination, thus often the prerequisite for tourist selection. Such a form of tourism would certainly live well in Croatia, given its rich history and cultural heritage in general. However, it is generally the opinion of Croatian tourist workers that Croatia cannot measure in terms of cultural tourism, for example, Italy or Spain. This is supported by the thesis that these countries have a much longer cultural tradition that we can't, not say a better culture that I can sell in tourism. Whether a country's culture can even be a plant, even for sale, or just a way of concealing its own incompetence, i.e. marketing and managerial ignorance. Designing a good tourism programme is not a simple thing at all, especially that there is no unique tourist product in Croatia that would cover the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. However, if we follow the world's cultural trends, we will find that cultural diversity is precisely at the price. It also wants to offer a different culture, a different experience than that experienced by a tourist in his own or another country. The market must offer something indigenous, something that will distinguish it from other tourist destinations. It is right here that the specificities of Croatian culture should take place through various cultural facilities, dances, food, tours of the cultural cores of cities, different products that root their roots just from Croatia, such as ties, pens, Pag laces, etc. It's just a little deeper to grab under Croatian past to find out what wealth we have. Six sites on the World Heritage List already tell themselves a story, not to mention what other national treasures we still have. After all, it is not even important in tourism to have the best quality product as much as it is important to know how to tell a story about this product and sell it that way. It is difficult sometimes to determine the authenticity of a particular product because it is generally known how cultures have interfered in history and it is not always safe to dominate, thus imposing a weaker product. What matters is that the local community senses this product was it some kind of food, song, dance, as its own, and thus presents tourism in a quality way. Although we have resources, in this part of the tourist branch we are really late for the rest of Europe. There are good examples, but unfortunately they depend on the enthusiasm of individuals who are fighting all the forces of the problem in order for their project to survive another year, and this is due to the absence of a systematic cultural and tourism policy. The internal diversity of Croatia is made up of its regions and local communities, different urban and suburban identities, different religious communities and national minorities, the cultural identity of Croatia is not the result of the reduction of differences and the unification of ideas but is the result of meeting and crossing different cultural, ethnic, linguistic and aesthetic values. These cultural differences exist in parallel and are being upgraded to one another. According to its historical heritage and in the present Croatia is a multicultural society and cultural policy of Croatia should focus its democratic development on putting on its multicultural and multiethnic character, developing the openness of pluralism in Croatian cultural creation and in minority groups. The conclusion of the Convention on the Proposal for a Law would be that it is necessary to develop instruments aimed at ensuring cultural development, while preserving the specificities of individual cultures, but it is more important to ensure the country's participation and visibility on a global scale. Cultural policies should also be strengthened in order for governments, together with civil society, to create an international environment that values diversity, creativity and freedom of cultural expressions. It is important to be open to the world, but at the same time remain aware of the specificities of your own culture. The messages and objectives of this Convention should certainly be pursued. We of the Croatian People's Party will certainly support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65010	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65011	Thank you very much. I'd fix an esteemed colleague in one quote only. At the very beginning of her presentation, she said this convention should have come before. Ms. MPs could not have technically come before because the convention was adopted in Paris on 20 October is not even a year, and Croatia is the first European country with two non-European countries to deal with the convention. So it couldn't possibly have come before.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65012	And the second correction, the esteemed representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65013	I'm not sure, Mr. President, whether it is true today that tourism is a culture, perhaps it would be better to say that tourism should be part of a culture or culture, because at this point there is much that is happening in tourism, which in my opinion is a deep threat to the integrity of a whole series of cultural monuments in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65014	Thank you. HDZ club, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65015	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will strongly support the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions because we believe that this international document in the field of culture is extremely important for the following reasons. It calls on countries to protect and promote the diversity of cultural expressions, ensure the sovereign rights of the state to adopt measures and policies to protect and promote diversity, promote dialogue between cultures and recognise the specific nature of cultural products and services, their cultural and economic aspects and encourages strengthening international cooperation and solidarity. In this place, it should perhaps be recalled that the Republic of Croatia is one of the founders of the international cultural policy network founded in 1999, a network of culture ministers whose primary goal was to improve the cooperation of ministers and culture ministries on the issue of promotion and protection of cultural diversity. Representatives of the Croatian Ministry of Culture were also in a delegation in February 2003 when UNESCO's principal director and publicly requested support for the launch of negotiations on the future cultural diversity convention, and in 2003, a general declaration of cultural diversity that indicated the adoption of the convention was held in Opatija. That is why we feel that we are on the trail of a pioneer assignment because, as I said earlier in correction, Croatia is the first European country to conform to this convention, and that is all on the trail of all the jobs that have been done before. This international document calls very clearly on the signatories to respect certain principles on which cultural cooperation in Europe is based, and this is primarily the principle of unity in diversity. In other words, this means the adoption of policies and the development of a funding programme that will promote diversity, at the same time pointing to common European values, what is most often referred to as European added value. The European model is not a dominant model but could rather be called a model of promoting cooperation to promote diversity, and these are the principles on which the Republic of Croatia is building its cultural development strategy. As the European Union declared in 2008 a year of intercultural dialogue, this Convention will surely experience its full affirmation during that time when the Convention is expected to enter into force and will be confirmed by all Member States of the European Union. Our views on this Convention are attitudes that we have represented before. They were and remain that it is a truly positive document which is not directed against anyone’s interests but is aimed at affirming positive values and practices, promoting diversity, promoting pluralism, ensuring equal access to products and services from as many countries and cultures as possible in our cultural markets. If more countries are guided by such principles, space and smaller cultures and languages will be provided and a rich variety of cultural expressions will be preserved, ultimately leading to better understanding and tolerance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65016	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65017	Thank you, Mr. President, for the representative of the Ministry of Culture, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. For the HSS Club, this is an extremely important topic. We believe that this is not only a routine convention, but it also plays an important role because of the 102-year existence of the HSS. In fact, the HSS has really protected national interests in its long history, promoted freedom, justice, human rights, but has particularly seen wealth in our rich cultural diversity, preservation of tradition, customs. In not so long ago, the main protector of the preservation of tradition, folk customs, culture was the village, rural environments and suburban settlements. A large number of cultural and artistic societies competed who would have a richer repertoire in their performances. The original folk costumes, Christian customs and customs of the region, the Easter, Christmas, weddings, cabins, etc. Members of an extremely large number of women's associations spent dinners together with a song, sewing, shekeling, crocheting, lace making, learning children by hand, planting flowers, baking cakes, so that it was normal and expecting domestic tables to have tableclothes, hanged home curtains, decorated balconies full of flowers. It all came together, and today it doesn't fit into one specific ceremony of daily life in the country. Joint family breakfast and daily agreement on daily obligations, schedules and obligations of each family member, agreement on solving problems, but also common division of joy. We in HSS often mention that these women, these families are our landscape gardeners, housing arrangements, protectors of our culture, customs, protectors of the culture of life. But there are fewer and fewer such protectors of our culture, customs, villages dying slowly, fewer villages. They dominate most Croatian villages of the nursing, peasant households. It shows, after all, the figures of the last census. But let us also look at the content of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions, from preamble, to measures to promote and protect cultural expressions. How to interpret Article 13. The Convention on the inclusion of culture in sustainable development, i.e. development policy when state policy has no vision of how to protect the village in the future. How to protect all these values that I have told you before, which rightly for the right very much are worth the survival of the village? For now, it is all left to some municipalities that have more initiatives but also feelings for exactly these folk customs. Our state institutions are hardly dealing with the problem of rural development, at least not systematically and of course we can then say that there are no visions of how to preserve the village. So when we talk about this Convention and I ask all of us if when we sign this Convention, do we sign it for the sake of the European Union, to meet the formal conditions, or should we do it for ourselves or for ourselves? We must be prepared to enter the European Union and all reforms that we have talked about so far in the judiciary, education, science, agriculture, health care and so on, we are working primarily for ourselves. To be better, to take care of every little man and prove to our man that we care for their fates. This will be the right and best promotion of Croatia's EU entry project, trained and prepared Croatia for the European Union. And maybe let's say more about this convention. In fact, I was expecting this speaker to introduce us to what the Ministry of Culture is intending to launch on the basis of the provisions of the Convention? As an example, I will quote Article 6 and I would like to hear what regulatory measures are, what are these measures to promote cultural expressions, Article 7, what measures to protect cultural expressions, Article 8, how to launch and stimulate education and raise public awareness and civil society participation, Articles 10 and 11? And of course, as I have already said, for the HSS very important, how to involve culture in sustainable development, Article 13. In the end, there's always a question, what means? And I don't expect an answer to this question, to be given to me by the Ministry of Culture, so it's a national interest and it should be the domain of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A private story is products in a culture that, less and less, which I have to be honest and less and less because the market is low. But most importantly, demand is low. And we all know, better said on the other hand, that there are such products, but first, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has or the Ministry of Culture almost insignificantly co-finance the production of such products, but also the co-financing of the organisation of people who should preserve such products from oblivion. And secondly, if there are and such products they are not mainly an integral part of the official name presents that all ministries and all state institutions and bodies have. As an example, I'm going to name the case of the leprechaun lace, the laces from Leprechaun, my county which, along with the pike lace... one of the most valuable products of that kind in culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During my time as Mayor of the Varazdin County I introduced a fancy lace as an official gift, we significantly co-financed the school of leprechaun laces, the interest was great, but the question is how are we going to keep over 200 of these laces that are currently being produced by the leprechaun lace if there is no interest in this product in state organisations? Too little in the Croatian tourist community, our embassies, not to mention countless companies. I'm talking about the practical application of the Convention. Not to mention, here I now have a fellow representative of the Jarnjak and a poor domestic word, weddings, etc., all of this will slowly go into oblivion if no sufficient funds are found and sufficiently significant and greater interest of state institutions. Of course there is no doubt the HSS Club will support this bill, better said this Convention, but we would not want it to be all for the formal fulfilment of the terms but for our own sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65018	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65019	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club, of course, supports the adoption of this Convention and, despite the fact that there has already been a lot of debate on this subject, allow me just a few words. What seems very important to us in the SDP to us as some kind of motive for this, but also all of this type of convention and actions that should come from both the government and how such ideas should be considered here in Parliament, it seems to us that in the situation of the globalised world, the spread of globalism should be viewed as a new value that creates a counterweight so that not all of us become simply one and drown in some grayness of those greater and stronger. This is of course particularly important for small countries, for small cultures, for small languages which, by the very fact that they are small, does not mean that they are less important than the big ones, and I think that Croatia needs to articulate its interest very clearly and I think that Croatia has made this interest very well articulated because I think that one of the speakers before me has already mentioned in the creation of this Convention Croatia, with Canada, had a decisive initiative, which was the most active initiative. I think my colleague Maja Martincevic has already mentioned saying that in some ways this is not the only case, the only example when Croatia was giving an initiative to promote the diversity of cultural expressions. In 2003, the largest meeting of culture ministers from all over the world was held in Opatija... The conference was chaired by just the Croatian Culture Minister and it seems to me that in other areas there would be such examples that our minister is chairing some kind of convention ministry so that it can work a much bigger step. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was followed by the adoption of the Council of Europe's main document on the protection of cultural diversity, which is precisely due to this conference in Opatija and called the "Opatian Declaration". There was talk of financing issues. It seems important to us to point out that this fund formed by this Convention is a voluntary fund and that all the funds invested by the States of accession to the Convention will be used for, precisely for the purposes for which they have given, because there will in some way be no loss of money and payment of any membership from which the Member States of the Signatory will not be able to benefit. To shorten the discussion, instead of the lamentation that we fully agree with from colleagues who spoke before me about Croatian cultural customs, about Croatian culture, those Croatian cultural pearls that we have in Croatia, I would rather ask one question if we want to be honest here in Parliament, I do not know how many colleagues and colleagues you meet, Croatia recently, several months ago, suspended a mission to UNESCO in Paris and Croatia no longer has official representation in UNESCO than is covering all this together from Brussels. So if on the one hand we want to spread Croatian interests, spread Croatian culture, promote cultural diversity, then I don't think it's a good thing that we're doing these very small places, small oasis of Croatian culture in important world institutions and international organisations. Finally, I think it is quite important again to point out that the role of the Republic of Croatia in the affirmation and protection of cultural diversity, i.e. in accepting and adopting this Convention, I think that this creates in some way new platforms for new cultural expressions that need to be opposed to these leading or larger cultural industries that respecting globalisation promotes the value of interculturalism because the fact is that it is something where we can seek our own benefit and something that makes them rich, and I am glad that at last these topics have been led here by debate in the Croatian Parliament because it still shows certain steps that I think there should be even more. The SDP Club will support this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65020	Thank you. For PGS, SBH, MDS, respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65021	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I am very pleased that our club will be very pleased to support this legislative proposal to confirm the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. It is vital to say that diversity is a feature of the world, of human civilization, and that each affirmation of diversity is especially in culture something that represents a great task. I think it is important in the context of understanding our country, because interculturality is indeed a feature of Croatia, although it is not always recognised. As in Europe in general, so in Croatia, you often have opinions that actually want to affirm our culture only once in a circle or in a European culture, which is usually a constant justification for conflicts, including violence. Something like this we saw today in Antwerp, which is a challenge to all those who want to deny multicultural values in all parts of our continent. So, precisely because Croatian culture is not made of one piece, it is because many cultures are represented in these areas and that Croatian culture itself has various regional features of this law and this convention is something that represents a very important step in our cultural life. It affirms Croatia as a multicultural state. The fact that we're doing this among the first, I think it's very important. I think it helps access the monuments of various expressions of Croatian culture in neighbouring countries. That wasn't always possible. I think by joining our country of possible neighbours, it'll all be much easier and much more painless. It also affirms the fact that the protection of human rights has been increasingly represented in Croatia lately and something that will help to affirm this Convention. Also, especially important to me, I think it helps to curb interventions on various cultural monuments in our country, which has been happening too often recently through the vulgarisation and commercialisation of cultural monuments in a rather aggressive rush of commercial tourism. The fact that one of the results of this Convention will be the establishment of an international fund that will finance various aspects of the protection of monuments and the protection of cultural expressions in itself is extremely important. So, I don't think it's one of those laws that we all have to support without exception. PGS, SBH and MDS will do so with pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65022	Thank you. The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65023	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! It is also clear that the HSLS Club supports the proposal for a law on the validation of this Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. And then that's something I think the problem starts with. I have to admit and say that in many universities, colleges teach cultural studies, that topics are... critics, themes of culture, multiculturalism, identity became a common thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Moreover, there are a whole series of these publishing houses that have really been really very back for a few years, ten years systematically promote this very literature and that is something that makes me both happy and satisfied. But what's actually going to be the right way of applying this convention is how much we're already prepared to really change exactly some of our usual notions about culture, about relations between culture, about our relationship with others that this other person is not necessarily a stranger, not necessarily an enemy, is not necessarily an evil, but simply that we also have to respect the very existence of this diversity that is an integral part of our lives. I will be interested in how much this Government of the Republic of Croatia has to really change these standards as soon as possible, not only what starts in the public, in publishing activities, in some universities, from some professors, but how ready we are to include the everyday education in primary and secondary schools. In fact, then we're kind of creating foundations and then this is certainly not going to be an exception and it's not going to be an incident, it's actually going to be an integral part of our life. And just that it's actually the best way to... Finally, it is a Croatian culture, that it is not at all a unique, homogeneous term, to see what these are all and other cultures have had a profound impact on the creation of what I recognize today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I'm saying, I wouldn't want to question anyone here in any way, so let's see how that thing actually... and how much trouble it would be with defining this Croatian culture and also that this now entering the European Union then what you really need to protect between the corners to prevent these negative trends of globalisation really must protect your culture, your own language, your identity, and everything that goes along with it because indeed this "mcdonalisation", Coca-cola culture, plastic culture and this instant really threatens what your colleague Antolovic said at the beginning, I don't know that the six thousand languages that are being said today will disappear in a very short period of six thousand to ten percent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, very serious books are also written that criticise multiculturalism, and it is not the same simple notion again, but it is precisely that this dialogue and this fact become and full, we have full awareness of it, I say we could now turn out with these individual ones, conditionally speaking, at some universities of individual professors, that this really becomes an integral part of our everyday education and that we really don't finally experience it. Just as if we were doing the same poll here, about what the average citizen of the Republic of Croatia thinks about Islam, what he thinks about Chinese culture, about Japanese culture, what he thinks about African cultures, I'm afraid that these knowledge would not be too pleasant to this ear, and it would certainly change some stereotype that we have about ourselves. And they're also very valuable cultures, they're also cultures with their rich tradition and they're not at all inferior to any other culture. But I'm saying, that's all I'd like to conclude. The convention certainly is, it is a very important document, perhaps one of the most important documents that we confirm in this House's assembly. It's a good thing we're really doing it amongst the first, but let's not be the situation right now that Canada and we are here. It is clear why Canada is doing so from its real and internal political opportunities. The best actually studies, or one of the best studies, are being written in Canada to solve some of their own and political problems. How this fact of our cultural literacy also affects our political life, our economic life. I don't think there's any need to talk about it. But I would really ask this Ministry to offer us those implementing acts as soon as possible which will show how this will be applied in some, in some time, because if it just ends on this, at this confirmation of this Convention, I am afraid that nothing tangible will actually change in our stereotypes, in our perception and in our views on some other cultures for which I, with a lot of convictions and analysis and surveys, know that the situation in relation to what is different in us has not yet become a general place for our political and therefore cultural life. But we support it, but we expect exactly these implementing... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65024	Thank you. Is there something the secretary of state wants to say? Yeah. Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65025	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, allow me to thank you for the support expressed in unanimity towards confirming this Convention, but let me also point out some details that may have been heard in the debate. It could be heard that the UNESCO mission to Paris had been abolished. That's not accurate information at all. The mission of the Republic of Croatia to UNESCO operates within the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia and this is, therefore, only a structural change which, as seen through all the stated activity of the Republic of Croatia, has not therefore disrupted our activities in UNESCO. Let me also say, to answer in some way the questions asked how will this Convention be implemented in practice? In fact, since 1996, we have been implementing measures in our system that some countries will only start once they have joined this Convention. We're, you know, there's a special system for protecting independent artists. That already in 1999, in this House, we adopted a Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, which enables the protection of immaterial heritage. So in 2003, gentlemen just passed the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Daily Material Heritage. So four years before UNESCO, we introduced measures in this regard and tried to promote the protection of cultural diversity. So we did not accidentally become a leader, and we are not by chance, and now we can show the results that we are a good part of the measures that we are going to propose because I hope we will become and, we will have our own member in the first Intergovernmental Committee of this Convention, that we will be able to carry our experience further and learn from others as effectively as we can implement this Convention together within the International Community. And as for the leprechaun laces mentioned here, I would like to say that the Ministry of Culture has nominated just for Croatian chipping to enroll in the immaterial heritage of UNESCO. Therefore, the activities are numerous and could be listed for a long time, but I thank you once again for supporting all these activities with the support to confirm the Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65026	You have failed to add that, within the framework of this Convention and for the immaterial heritage, it is included and proposed and Slavonic tower Vienna [[Not the cool one, but the white one.]] Vienna, yes. [[Intruder: Vienna.]] Okay. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Do not be hasty [[The intruders don't understand.]] Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 88 votes in favour and four abstentions, the proposed law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65029	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, the Honorable Mr. Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. Here is a proposal for a law on the confirmation of amendments and addition to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Let me put in a few words a little bit of the gene of this Convention. The original Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material was adopted in 1980 and contributed significantly to strengthening the physical protection of nuclear material used for peaceful purposes. The Republic of Croatia accepted this Convention in 1991 as a succession, and the succession instrument was deposited with depositaries in 1992. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently seen an increased risk of international terrorism, and unfortunately its most dangerous form of nuclear terrorism, and therefore the International Community has decided to extend and supplement the existing Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Following co-ordination at a diplomatic conference held last July 8th, these harmonised amendments were adopted by consensus. Very short 3 are the main amendments and additions to this Convention. The first is the inclusion of nuclear installations within the scope of the Convention, in the very name of the Convention, which is now called the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials and Nuclear Plants as analoguely and meaningfully throughout the text of the Convention. It further stresses the importance of international cooperation in the field of physical protection of nuclear material and nuclear plants and adds to the text of the Convention 12 basic principles which are also shown in the text itself. There is, of course, the text of the Amendments to the Convention in Croatian translation as well as the English original. Here's what I'd like to do very briefly. Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Representatives, gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65030	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, for Internal Policy. President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65031	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On 9 May 2006, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which it is proposed to adopt the law in question by emergency procedure. The applicant's representative states that the law in question is vital to the protection of public health, safety, the environment, and national international security. It further points out that there is an increasing national and international concern over the potential for illicit trade in illegal use and use of nuclear material as well as sabotage and nuclear material and nuclear equipment. Following the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of the law under emergency procedure, assessing that it was of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the Committee is of the opinion that the proposed law will complete the safe use, storage and transport of nuclear material, and unanimously decides to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65032	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65033	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague of the Dust, I welcome you. Of course, we will support this Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. However, perhaps a few words along with the material that offered me to think a little bit about what it actually means in today's geo-political situation and context de facto. Every country's right to peaceful use of nuclear energy. But also because of the possibility of abuse from the very beginning of peaceful use of nuclear energy, a global control system is being developed specifically aimed at controlling nuclear material. On the one hand, it was intended to limit the potential for countries using nuclear technology in energy and research or any other form of peaceful use itself to produce some kind of nuclear material that could be misused. On the other hand, those with nuclear material wanted to impose a strict physical protection system that would prevent theft and the possibility of the nuclear material ending in the hands of those who could abuse it. The pillar of that control system was the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material for 20 years. During that period, the control system proved relatively successful. International control has yielded results, but at the same time it has not proved completely effective. The conventions and the system they imposed did not prevent secret nuclear programmes and the creation of several public and temporary nuclear states. This has also led to significant changes in the way international terrorism works. The sabotage of nuclear plants as well as the possibility of terrorist activity only by building nuclear weapons, nuclear explosive devices or explosive devices that disperse nuclear or other radioactive material due to radiological contamination have shifted from hypothetical possibilities to thrillers to actual possibilities. In such circumstances, it is indeed necessary to amend and supplement the Convention in order to strengthen and adapt the existing system of international control entirely to new circumstances. Since joining the 1991 Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, the Republic of Croatia has had a clear view of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the international nuclear material control system. The adoption of this law supplementing the Republic of Croatia will confirm its permanent commitment to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the prevention of international terrorism. The adoption of this law stresses that the Republic of Croatia considers the international system of nuclear control and nuclear material to be useful despite the limited results so far. By confirming the amendments and addition of the Convention, the Republic of Croatia adopts a series of principles of particular importance that the State is responsible for the system of control and physical protection of nuclear installations and nuclear material. The Republic of Croatia does not have nuclear facilities or nuclear materials at this time. It is unlikely that the Republic of Croatia would be the possible target of nuclear terrorism. However, support for the international nuclear and nuclear control system must not be purely symbolic. The Republic of Croatia must provide the relevant financial support to the competent authority primarily to the National Nuclear Safety Authority with technical conditions to strengthen the need for infrastructure used to control nuclear transport, nuclear material through the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Of course we of the HNS Club will support this convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65034	Thank you very much. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65035	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the council, Your Honor, Mr. Director. This is another series of conventions that the Croatian Parliament ratified regarding nuclear security. In the last session of the Parliament, we ratified... So the nuclear weapons non-proliferation agreement. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] In the previous session of the Parliament, we also ratified the Convention on the Banning of Nuclear Trials, and the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material was ratified before that. This is the addition of this convention and it is good that Croatia is also showing that it is in line with global trends in nuclear security. There is, however, one important detail that I must mention here, and that is the difference in the application of this convention compared to those two that we ratified in the previous Parliament meeting. Today, there is finally a State Nuclear Security Service. Until recently, we were one of the few members of the International Atomic Energy Agency that had not had its own National Nuclear Security Institute, so when it was ratified, say, the Non-proliferation Agreement or the Convention on Nuclear Trials, then we didn't have a nominal body that would actually implement it. This was long ago in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Defence, etc. But the real body, in accordance with the practice of the International Atomic Energy Agency, is exactly the State Nuclear Security Service and it is good that the director, Mr. Matijaš Prah and the team in that office, have done their job well and, according to my information, that they are doing their job well. So, in this convention, Croatia has one easy environment, that we do not have a single nuclear plant on our territory, we do not have a nuclear waste dump on our territory that we will not even have if there is any sense of nuclear decommissioning in Krško. The nearest nuclear facility is in Slovenia. Something further is in Hungary, but these are, therefore, beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia can, therefore, only provide full moral support to countries where these nukes are to protect their facilities as well as possible. But Croatia, in accordance with this Convention, has yet another important task, which is to monitor whether nuclear material has been smuggled. So we don't have our own nuclear facility, we don't have a nuclear waste dump, but we're a country through which smuggling nuclear material can pass, which some irresponsible individuals from individual tourist groups could use to make so-called. dirty bombs. Today, as far as nuclear tourism is concerned, it is unlikely that one of the terrorist groups will build their own nuclear bomb. It's more likely he'll use nuclear waste. This nuclear waste mounts close to classical explosives and then, in a strong classic explosion, disintegrates that nuclear waste across a wide area and contaminating, say, a watery area where there's an entire city. Detonation of one such, one such device, so-called. The dirty bombs on the roof of the sky with a favourable wind can indeed be fatal. Therefore, most of the countries signatories of the Convention on Nuclear Safety, or the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, shall take into account precisely that they behave responsibly towards nuclear material stored in nuclear installations or nuclear waste dumps, i.e. to behave very responsibly and very strictly towards anyone who has the possibility of smuggling nuclear material through the territory of the Member States of this Convention. We have no doubt that the Croatian state today, especially now that we have a body that is responsible for such a job, will really apply this Convention firmly. The HSP Club of course supports the adoption of this amendment to the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65036	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65037	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. Starting from the rights of all countries to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, developing the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes is a significant physical protection of nuclear material for many reasons such as public health, environmental security, national and international security. The 1980 Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material has now contributed to strengthening the physical protection of the same material, which is used worldwide for peaceful purposes. Unfortunately, there is also another side to illicit trade, sabotage, terrorism of all forms, organised crime, which is all on the rise and requires the consolidation of existing measures in order to prevent, therefore, prevent, and not treat. Therefore, for these reasons, and amendments and additions to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material adopted at a diplomatic conference from 4 to 8 July 2005 in Vienna, organised by the International Atomic Energy Agency. Each country shall be bound by the appropriate regime of physical protection, applicable to nuclear material and facilities under its jurisdiction. Physical protection of nuclear material is not and cannot be simply the obligation of a particular state of signatories, but a joint particularly responsible job with full international cooperation, stressing particular threats to terrorism and thus answers to these threats. It should be pointed out that the text of the amendment states that, independently of the obligations made by the States Parties under this Convention, nothing under this Convention will be interpreted in such a way as to affect the state's contemporary rights. This Convention shall not apply to nuclear material used or held for military purposes, or to a nuclear plant containing such material. The fundamental principles are the responsibility of the state, responsibility during international transport, so joint action by several countries, ensuring a legislative and regulatory framework with full coverage of all segments, respecting the competent authority for the implementation of the same, giving priority to culture, security, etc. And of course, all the security measures of physical protection to the conclusion with the principle of secrecy. The state itself decides which, which nuclear material should be subject to the physical protection regime, but which one must be reasonably taken care of. The Convention also provides for any measures to be taken or taken by the signatories in the event of theft, robbery or any other illegal use of nuclear material, or threats from the same. In particular, information from other countries as well as from the International Atomic Energy Agency or other relevant international organisations. And co-ordination will be through diplomatic or other agreed channels, and ways of implementing this country's co-operation will be defined bilaterally or multilaterally. So, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65038	Thank you. Final review, Director of the National Nuclear Safety Institute Matijaš Prah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65039	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, respected MPs. I thank you for your support in bringing these amendments to the Convention. Perhaps only two three answers to the questions raised in the discussions. It is true that in Croatia we do not have a nuclear plant, but we have nuclear material and nuclear material category III, the least dangerous if I may say so. It is an impoverished uranium, and it is, of course, in terms of its physical protection and that material control, it, that control and control is carried out by means of the Regulation on the control of nuclear material and special equipment. As for the potential problem of physical protection of nuclear material, nuclear plants located near the Republic of Croatia, it primarily refers to Krško nuclear power plant in Slovenia and the Pac nuclear power plant in Hungary. The two countries that are members of the European Union are parties to this Convention and are of course expected to join these amendments. As regards the transport of nuclear material, illicit transport of nuclear material, the State Nuclear Safety Institute has established one very co-operation with the competent authorities of the state administration. I primarily think about the Ministry of Interior, the Customs Administration, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the other bodies responsible for this problem. I thank you once again for your discussion and for these amendments to the Convention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65040	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 93 votes to pass the proposed law. All counter-atomical and nuclear bombs.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65045	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me to brief the most important facts regarding this bill. The ISPA programme is therefore one of the three pre-accession European Union programmes aimed at financing infrastructure projects in the area of transport and environmental protection. It is defined at the level of 60m euros for 2005 and 2006 by 30m euros for each of the resors, transport portfolios and environmental buffers. Under the ISPA programme, co-ordinator state secretary Marija Pecinovic Buric co-ordinated the project selection process and the memo in question was signed with the European Commission on 30 January this year, signed by the European Commission on 12 December. The total amount of the railway rehabilitation programme at Vinkovci-Tovarnik-state border for Vukovar-Srijem County is 75 million 761,000 180 euros. The ISPA funds are 28 million 789 thousand 180 euros and account for 38% of the total programme while the rest is scheduled to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. What is obtained by realising this extremely important infrastructure operation? Rehabilitation of the 33.5km rail line in the far east of the country, on the PAN European Corridor 10, of the utmost importance for therefore total European transport. It is obtained to raise maximum speed on that corridor from the current 120 which is only valid theoretically to 160, and theoretically it is worth 120 exclusively because other equipment primarily security devices, road and other infrastructures are not at the level that would allow the above mentioned speed, but it is actually carried out only at a level of 40 kilometers per hour. The completion of this, i.e. the beginning of this procedure in practice, provides for the beginning of the work next year. Namely, the procedure for calling, preparing the tender, selecting candidates in a programme co-financed by the European Union is somewhat longer and more complicated, but let's hope that it is more successful because of that, and other than that, the following year, when the tender is successfully completed and the artist selected, except for the very important procedures mentioned on the railway track and railway infrastructure, also on that corridor, i.e. 33.5 kilometers of this section, are also planning to restore the basic infrastructure on railway stations, meaning buildings, platform, vaults, lighting, walking crossings, etc. where necessary. It is a total of 10 railway stations and stands. This is what we consider the first concretely successful joint programme between the European Commission and the Republic of Croatia. We are convinced that after this successful absorption of capital by the Commission, it will follow with greater trust and higher amounts and resources, which will be pooled in the programme 2007 to 2012 in the five-year programme in the name of the programme called ISPA. Here are further questions at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65046	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65047	Mr. President, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will, of course, support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the instruments for the pre-accession structural policy of ISPA for the following measure: the rehabilitation of the railway line on the Vinkovci-Tovarnik-State border for Vukovar-Srijem County, eastern Croatia. In this part and the Secretary of State in particular stressed the importance for the eastern part of the Republic of Croatia mainly for the Vukovar-Srijem County, the area fully occupied by this railway section, and this very part of the important European corridor is indeed in desperate bad shape and we believe that the real project, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has chosen, run for our happiness and managed to secure funds from the European Union with which we will in the next few years, and the planned project intends to end by 31 December 2009, fully and reconstruct the railway, not only to increase speed but mainly because it is necessary to ensure all transitions and maximum security on that section of the railway. In this part, I would also like to point out in particular that Vinkovci as a hub, an important railway hub has recently suffered great damage, indirect war damage and that this project will also directly help and revitalise the economy and the city of Vinkovec itself, as well as all the municipalities that are on that 10th corridor. These infrastructure procedures give us the right to plan projects now, and I know that the municipality of Tovarnik along with the municipality of Lovas, Tompauci and Germans through their plan and program of overall development of these 4 eastern-Croatian municipalities exactly accounts and important economic zones to locate right next to the railway line on the 10th corridor. I would especially like to stress here that it is particularly important for the Croatian Democratic Community Club to be a team of people, which has just done this job in an extremely good way. This is the beginning of the withdrawal of funds from the European Union funds and I would like to point out here that the team, which Marija Pejcinović-Burić, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, has done an extremely good job not only in terms of ISPA programmes and the withdrawal of these funds but has created such an atmosphere that I am deeply convinced that the programmes that are coming, whether it is the SAPARD or the IP that will start from next year, will be done exactly the same way and that we will make the most of all the opportunities that we as a pre-accession member of the European Union will be offered by the European Union. In this part, I would like to stress that this is the fastest work done in the preparatory phase of the ISPA programme, and we can also complete the SAPARD as soon as possible, within the shortest possible time possible, the SAPARD Agency has done a significant part of the work and I believe that we will also be able to revitalise the economy at the level of the Republic of Croatia from these means of pre-accession assistance. And to conclude, I am pleased that the process of accreditation of the national fund and the central funding and bargaining unit has been successfully completed. And I am particularly pleased that the Ministry of Finance, through the National Fund for Financial Management of Pre-accession Funds, will now be the bearer of all these activities, which is a sign that the European Union and the European Commission have full confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community club will in any way support the Memorandum's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65048	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65049	Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. One of the major investments is in Vukovar-Srijem County, the rehabilitation of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway line, the state border. The motivation behind the idea to implement the rehabilitation of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway line, the state border, is that the rail infrastructure on the 10th corridor is unable to compete equally with other modes of transport, especially passenger transport. One in a number of reasons for rehabilitation is also significant progress of the highway system, but more and more for the burdens of sensitive transport speeds. The project will help make rail transport more competitive and improve transport times and equalise road transport times. This will help to reroute international road transport to the railways, which will have clear consequences and preserve environmental protection. The railway section is located on the 10th Corridor, from Salzburg to Thessaloniki, which is of great importance to the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Vinkovci-Tovarnik, the state border, with Serbia-Montenegro is 33 and a halfkm long, and traffic conditions are still not normal on it. Especially when it comes to signalling the damages caused during the Homeland War and the fact that on the track for many years has not been remounted except for the renewal of the electrification, the equipment after damages caused during the war. Therefore, as a result of the war damage to the signal-safety devices, the speed on that rail section has been reduced and today is only 40 kilometers per hour even though it is originally designed at multiple speeds. The owner of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik Railway Rehabilitation Project, the state border, is the Croatian Railway Company d.o.o., and the main goal of the project is to increase the speed of trains up to 160 kilometers per hour. In order to achieve this, the following works need to be carried out on the track as part of the project. Handicrafts, electrification, setting up new signalling, editing of railway and road crossings, setting up telecommunications, editing of railway station. The total investment is about 75m euros. Co-financing, the state budget is 45,540 thousand euros, which means 62% is financed by the Republic of Croatia, and the ISPA is 38%. The period of completion of the works is 2006-2009. The project will undoubtedly also affect the increased safety of rail and road transport in a way that will remove open and unprotected road crossings without bumpers and light signals, and improve other road crossings of mostly automatic semi-defines... for a speed of 160 kilometers per hour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course I'll support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65050	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65051	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Only one information listed in Appendix 1 of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Rehabilitation of the Railway Line at Vinkovci-Tovarnik, the state border clearly shows the state of the railway section. As a result of the war damage to the signal-safety devices, the speed on that rail section was reduced to just 40km per hour, and the projected speed was 120km per hour after the last remont in 1974. It was probably also described by Agatha Christie that the Orient Express on that stock drove far faster than this speed, so 40 kilometers per hour, and this is about the 10th corridor, or the 10th corridor that we rightly called the main track, and if you go through that stock today, if you have enough time to notice that you get the impression that the war may have stopped last year, and not eight years ago. That's what cell buildings look like, the railway environment, so we don't discuss some technical details. I repeat, it is part of the 10th corridor that we also know we are driving international passenger trains regardless of where passengers and where they come from and certainly get the impression that the Republic of Croatia has not done much in restoring the war on the affected areas, and that is simply not true. Namely restored settlements are a little off the rails, so you can't see it. With the reconstruction of this railway section, Vinkovci railway station will certainly continue to be resuscitated, which until not long ago was the largest railway hub in this area. It will mean a lot for a few additional places in Vukovar-Srijem County where there is also a high unemployment rate and will mean a lot for the Tovarnik border station, for reviving the border area towards, that is, the border with Serbia-Montenegro. I consider it important to mention the link of that stock, of course via Vinkovac and Vukovar port, that is, the importance of a complete reconstruction of the railway network in that area precisely for the port of Vukovar which is already able to overload almost 1 million tonnes of different goods. In the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, the railway network is extremely branched and its final completion, i.e. by bringing it into order, the benefits will be multiple. From the objectives described, we can see that the projected speed is increasing to 160 kilometers per hour, both by track and by signalling, which necessarily requires improvement and recovery of the rail capacity, resulting in an increase in total traffic on the 10th Salzburg-Solun corridor. Of course, such speeds and high traffic must be adequately solved and road crossings with modern supply insurance automatically. And allow Mr. Secretary of State one comment on page 12 stands "the railroad goes on a relatively flat Slavonian plain", of those ten stations not including Vinkovci, let's say one is called Srijemska lasa, the other is called the Shitski Banovci, so it's a section that goes through the Srijem plain. Despite this observation, I support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65052	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65053	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I certainly support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Rehabilitation of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik-State Border of Serbia-Montenegro. This memorandum was signed in Vinkovci on 30 January 2006 and it was certainly an important event for our county. Here on several occasions it is said that it is a 33.48km-long stock, meaning to Vinkovci-Tvarnik-state border that was destroyed during the war and that now the conditions of train traffic do not allow more speed than 40km. But what's important to say is also to see that there are 12 spring crossings, and we know how dangerous they are for other traffickers, so it will certainly be important for this renovation. What I would also like to point out is that in addition to these valuable and large funds that we receive from the pre-accession ISPA fund of 28 million 789 thousand euros that these are significant funds and the Republic of Croatia from the state budget, it means 62% or 46 million 972 and that it already means 12 million and 300 thousand euros were allocated from the state budget in 2005. All these are large funds where it is also proved that the Republic of Croatia, or the Government, understands how much the needs of the reconstruction of this railway section are, however, it is certainly necessary to restore the repeatedly highlighted reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Osjek railway line, and here is a colleague who said how important it is for the Vukovar port. I would also like to emphasise here, and I think we should also point out what we have done well that these funds are now managed by ourselves, which is certainly a contribution to both the government and all those in the administration who are working to prepare and withdraw these funds. This is proof that we are able to make enough quality projects and that we are able to withdraw funds in time. Certainly, further work needs to be done in the future, and I would say more intensively on the education of all those interested in presentations, in the form of counselling, in the form of workshops and everything else, and once again to say that I certainly support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65054	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65055	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the fact that I'm also joining those who will support the adoption of this memo, that is, the bill's proposal, but I would still like to point out a few things in all of that and ask any questions related to the contract itself. On page 30, which speaks of competition, or transparency and contract award, I would like to hear from the Government's representatives also tell us that Article 2 tells us that the commission that will be formed for the award of contracts can also allow third-country nationals to compete for the award of contracts, i.e. the possibility of participating in the implementation of this project because we need to be aware of this, and I as advocate and propagator of railways am aware that the development and infrastructure contributes to the development of the Croatian industry. However, I must say, and I would like to hear the answer to how much the Croatian industry and the Croatian economy are willing to participate in competitions to perform the work on revitalisation, i.e. to improve the situation on this track of the 10th Corridor. We are aware that the tenth corridor is one of the most important in Europe, quite certainly in this part of Europe that it should be a golden coke for the development of Croatia, as well as Croatian railways. When we see the goals that are written, what should be done is quite certain that I personally believe that at this time Croatian railways are not able to take over most of the business in the competition of foreign transport operators both passengers and goods. We can say that for railways more and more, however, the fact and that is the appeal of the trade unions operating within the Croatian Railways that serious safety is at stake, that we have insufficient capacity, that often there is a failure of the tow truck, means a locomotive. And we'll have quality infrastructure but I wonder who's gonna drive on those tracks, whether it's gonna be a Croatian operator or some side. In addition, Vinkovci as once the largest hub in this part of Europe will not have and will not achieve sufficient effects if, as already a colleague, Lelic has not restored the Vinkovec railway to Osijek as one of the 5.C corridors, but there is an opportunity to talk about what will happen with the possible modernisation or removal of the railway line towards the County or Brcko, which can also be one condition, and in the objectives there is a clear record of the attraction of both the burdens and passengers on the railways. At times, according to the Vinkovci as a railway centre and a hub, a good portion of the passengers from northern Bosnia were heading towards the Vinkovci. And if you don't rebuild the tracks that are lower than this 10th corridor then it'll just be a transit as it is now. I would like to hear the meaning of what is planned within that, when it is planned to move actively with the reconstruction of the Vinkovec railway towards Osijek, with the introduction of such traffic and everything else, and of course hear how much, I am stressing once more, on one side how well our economically qualified is to participate in quality competitions to get jobs, not to turn out to be, regardless of what foreign aid is because Croatia also has to participate with its resources from the state budget, so that we have public tenders that will mainly go for the parties and not for the domestic industry because the domestic industry is particularly from eastern Croatia hungry quality jobs. Therefore, on the other hand, at which stage are our operators, above all Croatian railways that are in the phase of separation to four societies that can indeed become the main infrastructure operator owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, support in any case that, praises a valuable project and I hope there will be more of them, although I can personally say that from the time the European Commission signed the contract that it may be too long until the arrival of the Croatian Parliament. It may be such a procedure and I understand that bureaucracy must also do its job but it seems to me that it can and should be a little more accelerated than it has been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65056	Thank you. State Secretary Drazen Breglec final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65057	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Let me first try to answer a few questions that were actually asked as concrete. The possibility of the participation of foreign contractors in the performance of works is defined among other things by the Public Procurement Act, which is valid in the Republic of Croatia and which has certain restrictions and obliges the Republic of Croatia not only in cases where such funding is covered by the European Union but also in other cases where the value of public procurement exceeds a certain amount to call international public tenders. So, in this case, there are two legitimate basiss for calling and the obligation to call a public international tender for the performance of works, and let's face it, in general, we may not have highlighted enough, but 670 million kuna works. When you convert 75 million euros, you add VAT and convert it into kuna. Therefore, it is an extremely large and extensive and expensive project which will, of course, need these resources in one appropriate way, in a very careful way to spend quickly but correctly and in the most efficient and honest way. So it's about doing the work. As far as our contractors are concerned, let's hope they're ready. The performers are aware of the investments they are preparing. We must be aware of all together that the machines working on the rehabilitation of the railways do not own any domestic operatives and so far rehabilitation of the working rail and which is an extremely demanding technological process is a few machines in Europe that are fabulously expensive and that are doing rehabilitation in all the countries of Europe. It is expected that mainly those who can offer such jobs and compete on this job will also be expected to have a high participation and domestic operations on these jobs in all other works that are less technical demand where there is great competition. Widen the context of the railroad story, perhaps a brief review. Of course, after the separation of the objectives of the Croatian Railways is that the infrastructure, so HZ infrastructure future company for the management and development of railway infrastructure creates such conditions that it can accept and enable operators on the railways to make a profit. This is one of the instruments that will enable this and also parallel to the second company of the Croatian Railways, so Cargo, i.e. passenger transport, are aware of the moment, are aware of the dynamics. This House has passed a Law on Dynamics, soon to be separated, and soon government decisions will be made in this regard. So, in the meantime, modernising their passenger capacity is also being carried out to pull, drive, wagon and certainly very nearly the competition will begin not in one year, not in two years. It will catch on in one future period we are convinced long enough to ensure the competitiveness of followers of the Croatian Railways and those of the Croatian Railways dealing with transport. And this time I have to say that both the separation decision and the decision to privatise subsidiaries have been made with written consent and unions, all relevant trade unions. Therefore, I think that the Union's appeal to the threat, security simply does not exist in recent months, or certainly such appeals have not been made. In fact, we talked about it last time we passed separation laws. We have committed ourselves to respect each other and to implement this extremely sensitive separation process together, as well as further development of the Croatian Railways. The removal of the railway line under the Law on Railways is decided by this High House, and it is absolutely certain that before any such decision is proposed anywhere and can only be suggested in extreme cases that all possible instruments for cooperation with the local community will be used, with cities, municipalities and counties on whether a line may be maintained or not in the final line of the past years. I don't think there will be any such soon proposed or adopted. And finally, the National Programme for the Construction of Railway Infrastructure is in the final stage of production. It will be very soon before, too, during a debate in front of the Parliament. It is a key document that will show which investments will be included in the National Programme when we talk about rail infrastructure. He must have his investment list, of course, but also secure, provided funds for other parties, and it will be a moment of truth in which we will speak which railways will be rehabilitated, reconstructed, and which will remain for a future period because of course there is always a list of wishes and a need for great distance from possibilities. That's why they're important, I'm going back to the very beginning, these programs that allow for the acceleration of these, the realization of these most necessary needs. The unanimous support you have shown to this programme obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make even greater efforts to prepare and implement similar programmes but I must point out here that Croatia is in realisation... program but also other programs have practically already defined on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The level of its operationality and so high-quality approach is that we can now say that all resources will be used to put our distinguished partners from the European Union before one, conditionally put pressure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We, unlike other countries, used all the funds at this stage prior to accession. We have high-quality administrative capacity and all possibilities of absorption to use the funds in the next period, in the following programmes, in the "IPA" programme continue in cohesion funds that we will absorb and provide us with larger funds. Here's a thank you for all the remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65058	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but I'm guessing the secretary of state reads a regular newspaper. And that there are services in the Ministry that are also involved in the analysis of media writing because it is quite incorrect, the trade unions last week, some of the trade unions from the Croatian Railways pointed out and warned that the modernisation of Croatian railways is too slow and that traffic safety is at risk. When I say the safety of the event, it doesn't mean the safety of the train crash, it means the possibility to cancel because of insufficient tow capacity that you won't be able to drive trains and everything else. I'm very sorry, but unions one, government and management of Croatian railways the other, and usually, then, cruelly, really deny us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u65060	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 3:00. There will be a vote on the points discussed. It's 1:00 P.M. Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the following measure: the rehabilitation of the railway line on the Vinkovci-Tovarnik-State Border for Vukovar-Srijem County, Eastern Slavonia, Croatia. Please vote. Let's get on with it. To vote. He's a little weird, yeah. The result? With 87 votes for, 5 abstentions passed by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u67841	Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the 42nd session held on 12 May 2006, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health of the Croatian Parliament is elected Ivan Bagarić instead of Draga Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u67842	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this Decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes for and 1 abstention of the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u67844	The Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 42nd session held on 12 May 2006 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament. Anto Bagarić is elected as a member of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Assembly instead of Draga Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u67845	Please, I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 82 votes for the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u67848	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! At the 43rd session held on 26 May 2006, the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u67849	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 86 for and 1 abstention, the proposed decision has been made. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u67850	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 43rd session held on 26 May 2006 unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament is elected Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2006-05-12-0.u67851	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. To vote. The result? With 83 for and 1 abstention, the proposed decision has been made. The MP's an optician by profession, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of the session was held on 31 May with a debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman and on the following agenda, and I think that since the law has been adopted today and that it will take effect on the occasion of the mention of the date of the appointment of the Croatian Parliament, which can now be marked except for the solemn session and, in another appropriate way, will be held one of the most likely receipts of which the Bureau of the Assembly will decide that on that day or perhaps the day beyond, a memorial day will be marked in one appropriate way by one solemn reception. The solemn reception, but which immediately, after which and between which will be the work, will be the workpiece. I'm not here next week because I'm with a parliamentary delegation in Estonia and Finland, so the alignment will be taken over by Vice-President Luka Bebic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 20th session of the Croatian Parliament. Purified daily, the text of the agenda is on the benches. Point 1. with which we begin is - - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance of the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the following measure: The Programme for Water and Waste Water in Karlovac for the City of Karlovac, Karlovac County, Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 469 is proposed by the Government. The debate was carried out by the Committees on Law, Agriculture and Forestry, Finance and the State Budget, the spatial arrangement and environmental protection and European integration. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Marija Buric Pejcinovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
