ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U1	Good morning, good fellows. We will begin the session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, you're welcome! Since it's the year of movement, we're moving on to the agenda and doing a presence check. 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 30. There are a few changes on today's agenda. During the debate on the 10th item of the agenda, Mr Rein Lang, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In today's debate on agenda item 12, the Member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator. The 12th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U2	Let's move on to the first item on the agenda. This is the third reading of draft law amending the Law on Competition and the Law on the Organisation of the Rural and Agricultural Market, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I do not want to, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 712 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on Competition and the Law on Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U3	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. I'm sorry, I have a very quiet voice. I would like to ask the hall to show a little more cooperation. Thank you. We have come to the second item. This is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, Valdo Randpere, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are about to vote on the draft law amending the law on maritime safety, which to a large extent is a very good draft. But in one small part, it's not. For some reason, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications decided that the restrictions on alcohol consumption imposed on recreational craft drivers should be increased. I'm the captain of a recreational ship myself. I'm not a drunk, I'm a full-bodied, but somehow I object to this change. I want to explain to you why I'm doing this. This is not the first time for me to defend the rights of the owners of a recreational ship. A few years ago, when I was a member of the Tallinn City Council, a boat tax was introduced in Tallinn in cooperation with the Centre Party and the social democrats, our current good coalition partner. I fought it too, so the groupmates started calling me the boat Valdo. I think it's one of my most beautiful names, which I hope will accompany me for the rest of my life. But why do I protest against this restriction now, and why did I ever become a boat Valdo? First of all, I think we're regulating the part of the bill that actually works. In the field covered by these provisions, no accidents involving alcohol have occurred in the last two years. We have somehow developed a very popular trend in society that we try to fight against all vices with evil commands and prohibitions rather than appeal to people's minds and believe that they understand something themselves. Yesterday, some of us here were sweating, confirming that any lottery game is evil is evil. Maybe we should accept the idea that people are a little vicious, but as long as they're vicious in a reasonable way, maybe it's human and it's not too bad. I'm going back to the discussion we held the day before yesterday when we discussed the same bill. Rein Lang, a good friend, gave an example of how he went to America, I think it was Seattle, went to the boat shop and asked what he had to do to buy a boat and go to sea. He was told to pay the money, take the boat and go. Rhine didn't do it. I have survived a similar experience in Sweden, except that I made my intention a reality. I went to the store, bought a boat and went out to sea. And Sweden, a close neighbour of ours, which is also a maritime state, does not have a register of recreational craft, does not have any technical inspection requirements, or even does not have any requirement to pass a certificate or course. I took my boat and went out there for the first time. I picked up the chart, drove pretty fast, and at one point I thought that I had now reached page 34. After that, it turned out that I was actually on page 38. Luckily, there was a friendly sailboard nearby, he showed me where I was. But that was the end of my problematic situation. It made me learn how to navigate, and now I have the captain's papers. So there are many things that can be overcome without necessarily being pricked by the legislator. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U5	Please, Captain Randpere, three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U6	In Sweden, in addition to being a relatively unregulated and free area, there is also a very clear political dimension to the whole regulation. I wish this were the case in Estonia. I will give you two examples. In 1999, social democrats in Sweden introduced a boat register or a register of recreational craft to which registration was mandatory. The result was that they lost government in the next election. This summer, unfortunately, the bourgeois coalition began to change the same limit on alcohol consumption and established it from the size and speed of a certain ship. What happened to them? In September, they lost the election. I'm not saying it's just this, but there's a clear connection. Why? Sweden is generally quite sensitive about the issue of alcohol. For the Swedes, this sea is the last pulpit of freedom, the last place where it is possible to be anonymous and where neither the state nor any major brother can stick his nose in their affairs. There is one aspect that we have completely not discussed. Why are we talking about having a drink at sea? Not just because it's cold and wet. Consider, too, the speed at sea in these small ships or boats. You may think that a man is drunk driving a car, oh, that's ugly. There is a normal speed at sea when it comes to Maaruttian languages, 20 kilometers per hour, perhaps 30 kilometers per hour, perhaps some very fast boat reaches 40 kilometres per hour. It's about 20 knots. More than 25 knots are rare. Mostly at sea. We would probably not be imposing any severe restrictions on the drivers if the cars were squirming about 20 kilometres per hour and we had only 20 cars in Tallinn. Let them go! What am I going to say in conclusion? Estonia is a sea state. To be honest, I've never seen another sea country that appreciates so little sea, so little value it. I am not only talking about this amendment of the law, I am also talking about our merchant fleet, which is not, I am talking about our maritime policy, our approach to the sea at all. We are somehow accustomed to not knowing whether it is a habit during the occupation that we should not go to sea. So our strong bond with the sea is broken. Is it still programmed into our DNA? I don't know. Maybe not, maybe yes. In any case, I hope that we will eventually return to where our siblings in Finland and Sweden are, that our connection to the sea is a little different than it is now. Listening to this discussion in this Chamber too may give the impression that Estonia is a country of potato growers and pig farmers, not a sea state. Yet we are a sea state. Let us then look at the sea and be a little more thoughtful when we assess the proportions of risk and restriction of freedom. Is it always necessary to poke fingers in as a legislator in order to restrict freedoms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U7	Thank you. Does Aavixo have a procedural question, or does he want to say something about it as a representative of a group? Please, a mike Jaak to the Acoustic!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U8	I just wanted to say that Valdo Randper is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U9	Thank you. I do not know whether this was now the position of the representative of the IRL Group. [[In the diner.]] What was it anyway? Group leadership, help me! Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U10	Thank you. I have a procedural question for the manager: did you realise that this was a procedural reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U11	I asked for your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U12	Hopefully, then, we understand the same thing that this was a procedural line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U13	I ask the representative of the IRL Group of the Riigikogu speech chair, Toomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U14	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It is nice, in itself, that the amendment of the law on maritime safety is so exciting, but listening to the previous speaker's speech, I thought I would have to say a few words. Indeed, after reading the second one, I also received a letter in which a person representing the small ship vendors expressed concern that Estonian marine culture is still in development. Figuratively speaking, however, he expressed concern that he could no longer drink on the sea. I was accused of not thinking at all about how it would affect the sale of boats. My answer was, if someone doesn't buy the boat because they can't drive drunk on the sea, it's God's right law. All these stories about all the statistics that there have been no major accidents yet, that there is a problem, etc., for me, and I don't think these stories matter for a lot of people here. What matters is the principle, what you feel in your heart, what you think is the right direction and what you don't. Today's draft, which reduces the alcohol content allowed for recreational craft drivers from 0.8 prom to 0.5 prom, is the right direction and all the justifications in the other direction remain incomprehensible to me. Yeah, I figured out why many of these other directions support it several times here. In certain countries, this trend has contributed to the election victory. Nothing but happiness for those who base their decisions on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U15	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 738. I will put draft 738 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 53 members of the Riigikogu), with 2 votes against and 12 abstentions. The draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic 738 has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U16	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft 764 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' submitted by the Government of the Republic. Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, speaking chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The military observation mission set out in the draft is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948. Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in this mission as observers and staff officers since 1997. This is a purely UN Blue helmet observation mission. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in the crisis area. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading on 2 and 8 December. No amendments were tabled. At its meeting on 2 December, the Commission decided by consensus to submit the draft under discussion for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, to propose the termination of the second reading, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U18	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments have been received to draft 764. The position of the commission is that the draft decision could be put to the final vote. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Good colleagues, I'm going to put a draft of 764 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State on a post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, has been adopted as a decision. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U19	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union's international military headquarters' presented by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will be asked to speak to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U20	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and ladies and gentlemen! By decision of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 8 (1) of the International Military Cooperation Act, each year the limit of the number of Estonian Defence Forces who may participate in the work of the international military headquarters in the area of operation in the event of the opening of a new operation under the direction of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, or NATO or the European Union. The Riigikogu gives such a mandate only to participate in new operations and this does not apply to ongoing operations. The draft decision of the Riigikogu defining the limit shall be submitted to the Riigikogu by the Government of the Republic and the limit for the members of the Defence Forces shall be determined on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu for each calendar year. According to the draft under discussion, the 2015 limit is as much as 5 active troops in the street. The contribution of NATO and the European Union to new military missions is a priority in Estonia and is directly due to Estonia's membership in these organisations. In addition, Estonia also participates in decision-making on the start of new operations managed by these organisations. The deadline for amendments was 2 December at 1 a.m. No proposals were received and the text of today's reading is therefore identical to the text of the first reading. The National Defence Committee discussed the submission of the draft for second reading at its meeting on 2 December and approved the second reading by consensus. In this session, the Commander of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, Naval Captain Igor Schvede and other senior officers took part in giving an overview of what is happening in international mission areas with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces and the readiness of the Defence Forces to contribute to the military headquarters of NATO and the European Union if necessary. At its meeting on 8 December, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading. At its meeting on 2 December, the Commission decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 December and to propose that the second reading be closed. On 2 December, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose the final vote on the draft and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U21	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments have been received to draft 760, so we can go to the final vote. I will put draft 760 OE to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the international military headquarters of the European Union' has been adopted as a decision. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U22	Let's move on to agenda number five. This is the second reading of draft 759 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan." I ask Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the draft decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia will continue to fulfil its allied duties on NATO's new mission in Afghanistan and will contribute to the RSM mission in 2015 or Resolute Support Mission with 25 active troops. On 27 November, the Afghan Parliament ratified the agreement between NATO and Afghanistan on the status of forces, SOFA, which sets out the conditions under which NATO will continue to operate in Afghanistan and the activities that NATO Resolution Support Mission will carry out. On 2 December, the Foreign Ministers of NATO and its 14 partner countries formally decided to launch the mission on 1 January 2015. Resolution Support Mission is a follow-up mission to NATO operation ISAF. This is a training and counselling mission that does not have a mandate for battle. The aim is to train and advise Afghan security forces, ministries and other institutions. About 12,000 people from NATO countries and partner countries will be participating in the mission, and it is important to stress that the US is contributing with 9800 military personnel, while the remaining 2200 are from other NATO countries. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 2 December and approved the text of the second reading by consensus. The representatives of the Defence Forces also participated in this meeting, who gave an overview of the situation in the international mission areas with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in Afghanistan. At its meeting on 8 December, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 2 December at 1 p.m. One linguistic amendment has been made to the text of the draft act. Namely, the English language name of the mission, Resolute Support Mission, includes its abbreviation RSM. This has also been the case with other draft missions. At its meeting on 2 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 December and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission decided to propose a final vote on the draft and to adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U24	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. No amendments have been received on draft 759, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I shall put to the vote the draft decision 759. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 759 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan has been adopted as a decision. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U25	We move on to the sixth item, which is the second reading of draft 761 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the composition of the Nordic Battle Group of the European Union." Kaia Iva, Member of the National Defence Committee, will present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 2 December and approved the text of the second reading by consensus. The representatives of the Defence Forces participated in this session, who gave an overview of the events taking place in the international mission areas with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the preparation of the Defence Forces, in order to participate in the Nordic Battle Group. According to the draft, the Nordic Battle Group can be used in a military operation for the purpose of maintaining or restoring peace and security as set out in Chapters VI and VII of the Charter of the United Nations and in another military operation in accordance with generally accepted practices and principles of international law. The Nordic Battle Group is a 15-day ready-made European Union response unit of about 1500 military personnel. The Estonian active troops of the battle group are mostly located in Estonia during the preparation period. The use of the battle group is decided by the Council of the European Union by consensus, which means that the battle group can only be used if Estonia has given its consent. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft was 2 December at 1 a.m. No amendments were tabled at that time and the draft explanatory memorandum for second reading was approved by consensus by the National Defence Committee at its meeting on 8 December. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. a by 11 December, and propose the completion of the second reading. The Commission also decided by consensus to propose the final vote on the draft and the decision of the Riigikogu to adopt it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U27	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. There were no amendments to draft 761, so we can go to the final vote. As the chair of the sitting of the Riigikogu, I hope that the majority of the Riigikogu wishes to do so. I will put draft 761 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. Draft 761 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the battle group of the European Union' has been adopted as a decision. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U28	Let's move on to item seven. This is the second reading of the draft 762 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces by the Government of the Republic in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Innar Mäesalu, member of the National Defence Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If this draft decision is approved, Estonia will also continue to contribute to two military operations in Mali in 2015: the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission MINUSMA. For both missions, up to 10 active troops will contribute. The content of the European Union Training Mission shall be military and training advice from the Malian Armed Forces. The objective is for the Malian armed forces to be able to defend their own territorial integrity and reduce the threat of organised crime and terrorism. The aim of the UN peacekeeping mission MINUSMA is to stabilise the situation and restore state power throughout the country, to protect civilians and UN representatives, to protect human rights and to support humanitarian aid. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 2 December and approved the text of the second reading by consensus. The representatives of the Defence Forces also participated in this meeting, who gave an overview of the events taking place in international mission areas with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in Mali. At its meeting on 8 December, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 2 December at 1 p.m. One linguistic amendment has been made to the text of the draft: the title of the decision of the Riigikogu referred to in paragraph 2 of the draft is specified in the title of the decision of the Riigikogu last year. At its meeting on 2 December, the Committee on National Defence decided by consensus to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 11 December and to propose that the second reading be closed. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission decided to propose a final vote on the draft and to adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U30	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. No amendments to draft 762 have been received. The position of the commission is that the draft should be put to a final vote at the end of the second reading. Let's start preparing it. I will put draft 762 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, Bill 762 has been adopted as a decision. The seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U31	We move to the eighth item, which is the second reading of draft 763 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces." I would like to present a speech chair to Lauri Laas, member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U32	The NATO response force NRF addressed in the draft is the most important means of a rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, should this be necessary. The first reading of the draft was completed on 19 November this year. The deadline for amendments, which was 2 December at 1 p.m., did not put forward any proposals, so the text of the second reading is exactly the same as the original text of the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 2 December and approved the text of the second reading by consensus. The representatives of the Defence Forces participated in this session, who gave an overview of the events taking place in international mission areas with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces. The Commission also received an overview of the preparations of the Estonian mine hunter and its staff, including staff officers and officers, to participate in NATO's response forces. At its meeting on 8 December this year, the Commission adopted by consensus the draft explanatory memorandum for second reading. At its meeting on 2 December, the Committee on National Defence decided by consensus to put the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda by 11 December and to propose that the second reading be closed. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose the final vote on the draft and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U33	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No proposals were received to amend the draft 763, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 763 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 763 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO reaction forces' has been adopted as a decision. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U34	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft 765 of the Riigikogu's decision on extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the peace-building mission in Kosovo. Ene Ergma, member of the National Defence Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U35	Thank you very much. According to this draft decision, Estonia will also continue to contribute in 2015 to the composition of KFOR, the peace-building forces in Kosovo led by NATO. The size of Estonia's contribution is up to three active troops. NATO aims to ensure security and stability, both in Kosovo and in the Western Balkans as a whole, by supporting the Kosovo Government. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 2 December and approved the text of the second reading by consensus. The representatives of the Defence Forces took part in this meeting, who gave an overview of the international mission areas, including the situation in Kosovo, with the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces. At its meeting on 8 December, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 2 December at 1 p.m. At its meeting on 2 December, the Commission decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 December and to propose that the second reading be closed. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission decided to propose a final vote on the draft and to adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U36	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. There were no proposals for amendments to the 765, so we can go to the final vote. I will put draft 765 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on a peace-building mission in Kosovo, is adopted as a decision. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U37	Let's move on. The tenth item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice No 31 to bring State Fees Act §57 (1) and (15) and Annex 1 into line with the Constitution. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have had to deal with the issue of extraordinarily high state fees over the last few years. The proposal that I will present to you is intended to generalise my activities in this area. Let me first acknowledge the activities of the Riigikogu in 2012 and 2014 in resolving the problems of previous super-high court proceedings. It was very important for individuals as well as society as a whole that the level of state fees was significantly reduced in 2012 and thus increased the chances of obtaining assistance from the Court. Today, however, I believe that this is not enough, as state fees are still too high in certain respects. That is what I propose. In assessing the state's approach to the field of state fees, I have the impression that § 15 of the Constitution, which provides for the right to go to court, has been forgotten. The right to go to court is one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. This is an opportunity to argue legally and culturally, without resorting to self-righteousness. Today, many disputes between individuals are very complex, depending, for example, on whether they are an individual act or a general act, a law or a regulation, and also very expensive. Apart from the cost of turning to court, § 15 of the Constitution has been forgotten or made extremely narrow. Figuratively speaking, like a rabbit running in the light of a car, scared of zigzags, trying to get out of the light. Let me give you an example. The minimum wage is currently EUR 355 gross. Can a person earning a minimum wage pay the state fee required for recourse to the court? According to the current State Fees Act, a state fee of EUR 750 is to be paid for the civil proceedings concerning up to EUR 25000. Compare: monthly fee 355 euros, state fee 750 euros! The only option is to apply for procedural assistance, but it may not help. And let us not assume that only a rich person can have a great claim. The demand arises from offences that can affect any person. Legally, I begin by stating that the right to appeal to a court to settle a legal dispute has been expressed as a separate fundamental right in § 15 of our Constitution. This right is all the more important because it guarantees not only the protection of individual rights, but also the respect for law and the validity of the rule of law as a whole, i.e. the functioning of the rule of law. That's the interest of the whole community. At the same time, it is clear that, in order to avoid overburdening the judiciary, the legislator must be able to set limits on recourse to the courts. One such tool is the obligation to pay the state fee. In order to comply with constitutional requirements, the imposition of state fees must have permissible objectives and, once achieved, the right of recourse to the courts must not be unduly affected. I am of the opinion that, in the event of recourse to a court, the legitimate objective of imposing a state fee can only be, according to the Constitution, to prevent excessive recourse to a court. It's a deterrent function. The purpose of the reimbursement of expenses incurred by recourse to the judicial system is not legitimate. The state fee shall not be a means of forcing a party to the court to contribute generally to the revenue of the state budget or to contribute to the costs of civil matters, where the State cannot, for any reason, claim full reimbursement of expenses by the party to the proceedings. In such a case, the State fee acts in essence as a means of taxation. However, in order to fulfil the deterrent function, the Constitution allows only a modest limitation of the right of recourse to the courts. Excessive obstacles to a person's access to justice harm the interests of one person as well as of society as a whole. What, then, can be a proportionate yardstick for determining the maximum level of state fees in court proceedings? I have the average cost of discussing the case. As I have already said, reimbursement of the costs of legal proceedings is not the purpose of paying the state fee. However, this does not mean that the average cost of legal proceedings could not be taken as a basis for setting the maximum permissible level of state fees. Why the cost? As a result, if a person has to pay in advance the full cost of the proceedings, he or she will only turn to the court if his or her claim is sufficiently well founded and so important that it is necessary for him or her to be heard before a court, regardless of the costs involved. If the state fee is higher than the cost, it will no longer serve any legitimate purpose. Keeping a person out of court cannot be a separate purpose. If the state fee is higher than the cost, it is essentially a tax. However, I believe that the right of recourse to the court is so important for legal order and compliance that it must not be taxed nakedly for the purpose of redistribution. I believe that it is sufficient for the constitutional deterrent function to be carried out effectively if the rate of state fees does not exceed the average cost of legal proceedings. At the same time, in my opinion, the rate of charge above the average cost is, in any case, disproportionate and contrary to the Constitution. This is regardless of the amount of the action, of the costs of the legal proceedings or of any other circumstances in the particular case. I stress that it cannot be concluded from what has been said that any state fee for legal proceedings below this rate is, in any event, proportionate and in accordance with the Constitution. However, in my proposal, I have focused solely on assessing the constitutionality of state fees which clearly exceed the average cost of a case. According to the information provided to me by the Ministry of Justice, the average cost of civil proceedings in 2013 was not more than EUR 851. There are no statistics for this year, but I am of the opinion that the average cost of judicial proceedings in civil matters cannot be higher than EUR 1000 in any court today. Since, under the current State Fees Act, the maximum rate of state fees in civil proceedings may amount to up to EUR 10500, I can state that this law is contrary to the Constitution in so far as it makes it possible to determine a state fee exceeding the average cost of legal proceedings, i.e. the equivalent of EUR 1000, in my opinion. In conclusion, I repeat that in judicial proceedings, the constitutional purpose of state fees can only be to avoid excessive recourse to the courts. In order to achieve this, it is not proportionate to require a person to pay a state fee exceeding the average cost of the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U39	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. You have questions too. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U40	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! You challenge the constitutional compatibility of state fees in an abstract form. And in abstract form, you might agree with your arguments. However, for example, civil proceedings may be a procedure without an action and an action procedure. Unacquired procedures are various family-related disputes, etc., where it is entirely reasonable and appropriate to follow the principle of solidarity. However, if two private individuals argue with a bank such as a real estate developer, the claim is in tens of millions of euros and they argue to the end, going through three levels of court, why should taxpayers pay for this dispute on a solidarity basis? Can you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U41	The question is that § 15 of the Constitution applies, which provides for the right to go to court. The second question is the procedure, the way you go to court. I'm defending § 15, the right to go to court. And that fee should be quite small. The procedure can be similar and similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U42	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U43	Thank you, manager. Your Honor, Chancellor! Here's what I'm gonna ask. Your position is that the state fee should not exceed the average court fee. If the state fee is brought to the average cost of court, will you accept it and not proceed to the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U44	In my opinion, this is in any case contrary to the Constitution, and if it is not accepted here, the court will finally decide. So I've been doing it all along, so if you don't accept it here, let the court decide. I think a person has the right to go to court, but that Article 15 has been forgotten. It shouldn't be like that. The right to go to court cannot be an illusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U45	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U46	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You have proposed that the maximum level of state fees should be the average cost of a court hearing. This amount should not be exceeded, otherwise it would be a tax. We know that the government's objective is a cost-based state tax policy. If state fees depend on the level mentioned above, this should mean an increase in the lower rates of state fees. As we approach the middle and pull down the top, the lower end should be raised upwards. Would this change not serve the opposite purpose of what you have suggested and what you are pursuing? The other part of my question is that you have raised a problem with civil proceedings. How about the rest of the state fees, you didn't talk about that in your report. But do you think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U47	Yeah, I was only dealing with civil proceedings. A person has the right to go to court, but on the one hand, it is very expensive and, on the other, it is also very complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U48	Dear colleagues, on this item, everyone has the right to ask a question. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! When two top lawyers talk, it is extremely difficult for an engineer to understand. And I didn't understand what you said to Rait Marus. In his example, do you consider it fair that, when it comes to these two great private disputers, we must jointly and severally bear the cost of this trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U50	My answer is that § 15 of the Constitution is supreme. And the amount concerned must be well below EUR 1000. That's what I've already said.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U51	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U52	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Your Honor, Chancellor! I'll keep asking you about Helir-Valdor Seeder. You propose that in future, state fees should not be higher than the average court fee, i.e. not more than EUR 1000. Currently, there are certainly state fees, which are less than EUR 1000, also in civil proceedings. Can it not happen that, after supporting your proposal and amending the law, the government is proposing to increase the lower rates of state fees to EUR 1000?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U53	Yeah, it's possible. At the moment, I have made my proposal quite narrowly: the rate should be less than EUR 1000. There may be other developments, but I have not dealt with that. Maybe in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U54	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. I now request Rein Lang, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U55	Honourable manager! I will give you, ladies and gentlemen, a brief overview of how the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 31 has been dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed this proposal twice: on 18 November and 9 December. On 18 November, Indrek Teder first explained the content of his proposal, speaking exactly the same story as today. This talk was extremely understandable to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is a very clear legal political position that absolutises § 15 of the Constitution. In essence, the Chancellor of Justice wants to tell us that everyone, including real estate companies and banks, has the right to go to court, and society as a whole must bear this cost in solidarity. The problem with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at our meeting on 18 November was that we wanted an answer to the question of how much the civil procedure actually costs. The Chancellor of Justice will operate in his proposal with certain figures on which the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had deep reservations. When we asked the Ministry of Justice what these figures were really like, it became clear during the debate that there was no precise overview of how much civil proceedings in Estonian courts cost. On 18 November, the Ministry of Justice was invited to search out all the relevant analyses in its drawers, to bring them to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to try to explain to us how much the judicial system actually contributes to civil proceedings with a resource that can be measured financially. On 9 December, we received this table from the Justice Department. Vice-Chancellor Marko Aavik explained to us, again very convincingly and clearly, what methodology calculations have been made. Just for your information, these adjustments have been made on the basis of a system of burden points adopted by the judicial system, which is the agreed size of the current burden assessment in both the Ministry of Justice and the judicial system. We have this table right here. All members of the Riigikogu who wish to get acquainted with it, please send a signal to me or Rait Marus, we can forward it. This table shows that the figures with which the honourable Chancellor of Justice operates are not correct. I can give you a simple example. In the course of the action, for example, the division of the common property, the problem of the common property, the load point is 9.2, which, at first instance, costs EUR 1349 and 13 cents in civil proceedings and, in second instance, EUR 2165 if the appeal is brought. The procedure of bringing an action is a completely different matter; it already has specific state fees, which are based on the principle of solidarity. Now, however, we come to the essence of the dispute. In particular, is the principle of fairness black and white in the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution; it states that the state and society of Estonia are founded on the principle of justice and the word 'righteousness' is above the word 'right', the taxpayer as a whole should pay for the legal disputes of all private persons, or should the contestants pay their costs in the form of fees or bail, no matter what we call it ourselves? After the debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concluded that the current state fees were not in conflict with the current constitution and decided not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 31. There were 5 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, one against, one abstention. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has instructed me to make this position known to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U56	Thank you, honored waitress. You have at least one question. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Rein! Can you tell us, on the basis of European practice, how about fees elsewhere? Are cost orientations taken into account or what methodology is used? Is Estonia exceptional, or are we part of some sort of unified system? Do you know how to light it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U58	There is a broad division between the European Union and the European countries in general, and let us not divide Europe into two parts, so that some are based on the principle of solidarity. The purest example of this is the Kingdom of Sweden, where the state fee is extremely low when it comes to court proceedings and all matters are dealt with on the principle of solidarity for the money of the state budget. The Anglo-American countries as a whole, however, are primarily based on the procedural economic principle: the disputers pay their own costs in the form of fees or bails themselves. We've developed a kind of mixed system. At present, a ceiling of EUR 10000 has been imposed on state fees in the action proceedings, and no higher than this. On the other hand, we have all kinds of proceedings without an action paid in such a way that they are dealt with in court on the basis of the principle of solidarity. It can and may be, it is actually a judicial decision. I find it a little regrettable that the Constitution is used as an argument in the legislative decision-making that belongs to Parliament and comes to this Chamber in the form of a proposal from the Chancellor of Justice concerning the Constitution. Each of us has its own worldview, but this worldview should not be protected by taking advantage of the position of a constitutional institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U59	Good waitress, one more question for you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Let me ask you about these different numbers. Some are operated by the Chancellor of Justice and others are at the disposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm sure this question should be directed at the Minister of Justice, but since he won't come to us today, there is no way. The Minister of Justice replied to the Chancellor of Justice on 15 October and was unable to comment on how much the administrative court, civil court and criminal proceedings cost. Some time later, it was calculated at the request of the Commission. Is this not the case that the Ministry has put the Chancellor of Justice in a somewhat difficult position? It will operate with certain figures on how much the trial costs, and will come before Parliament with a proposal based on it, and later it will become clear that these were not correct data. Do you think the Minister and the Ministry have behaved properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U61	Thank you. Indeed, the Ministry of Justice has had great difficulties with procedural economics. They have found it difficult to coordinate with the judiciary, for example, the methodology used to determine all these fees. On the basis of a decision taken in the Riigikogu, money is distributed from the state budget to the court and, as we all know, it is divided into economic expenses, salaries, whatever the case may be. ICT costs are very high, which are borne instead from the Ministry of Justice's budget. When the Ministry of Justice first responded to the Chancellor of Justice, it was very clear that ICT costs were not included. But ICT costs are among the highest in the Estonian courts. So in this sense, the original material that went to the Chancellor of Justice may have been really misleading. You have to admit that. But the Chancellor of Justice probably had to understand when reading the letter, that it had to be clear, even in the case of ordinary people's attention, that there were no ICT costs in it. On 9 December, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also discussed whether it would be possible to find out in the future the specific cost of any civil procedure. Today's Estonian IT state, in my opinion, allows this and we encouraged the Ministry of Justice to continue to deal with it. If we knew the cost of everything with the euro's precision, we could also think about replacing the state fee with judicial bail in the future. Some of this could be paid before the case begins to be dealt with and, in the future, if the final decision was taken, the actual costs of the proceedings would be deducted from the losing party. Of course, it's kind of a problem, too. If the sums become very large, in the case of small things, when people argue about principles, it may be that people are prevented from going to court within the meaning of § 15. In any case, this issue can go further, but these disputes are about judicial policy, not constitutionality.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U62	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Finance Committee, for the speech of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U63	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 31. The Committee on Finance discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice at two meetings: 11 November and 17 November. Indrek Teder and Nele Parrest, Deputy Chancellor of Justice, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, were invited to the second debate. Indrek Teder explained to the Committee on Monetary Affairs why he had submitted his proposal. An overview of these arguments he presented from this remote control to the hall, and I will not repeat them. The law on state fees is part of the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but it must be admitted that the proposal that we are debating today, whose central issue is the impact of large state fees in civil proceedings, is more a matter within the area of the Committee on Legal Affairs. In terms of government, it's the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction. Therefore, what is to be denied here, was present at our committee meeting, where representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice were invited, in the argumentation more by the Ministry of Justice. I will also mention here some of the arguments put forward by the representative of the Ministry of Justice. The rates of state fees currently in force in civil proceedings are lower than those previously in force. For example, the rates at which the Chancellor of Justice contested the state fees in 2009 were four to five times higher than the rates at present. At the same time, the maximum rate of state fees was significantly higher than it is now. The Ministry of Justice also provided the Committee on Monetary Affairs with data showing that the rates of state fees have been higher in comparison to the average gross wage in Estonia than they are now. In assessing the constitutionality of the rates of state fees, the Ministry considers it important to bear in mind that if a person is unable to pay the state fee, he can apply for a partial or full exemption from the obligation to pay the state fee by means of procedural assistance. The Ministry also pointed out that the Chancellor of Justice has based his argument on the views expressed in the dissent about the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court. However, according to the Ministry, the interpretation of the Constitution would be correct to rely on the position of the Supreme Court in the judgment. In this decision, the Supreme Court considered the state fee of 2237 euros to be constitutional. I will also briefly give an overview of the questions raised in the Commission and the answers to them. The Chancellor of Justice was asked why he had taken the view that it was against the Constitution that the state fees exceeded EUR 1000. Aren't the questions raised by the bottom end, which is far more disproportionate? For example, a €200 claim is subject to a state fee of €75. The Chancellor of Justice explained that the philosophical starting point is that the fee must not exceed the average cost of legal proceedings. And in the case of lower fees, it is not said that they are in any case consistent. It was also asked to what extent the cost-orientation of court fees is an argument at all. Here, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out in point 4 of his report that it is not important that a person pays the costs of public activities, but that he avoids excessive recourse to the courts. The so-called deterrence function is therefore important. The rate of the state fee shall not be higher than that required by the deterrence function. It may be cost-based, but above the average cost, the Chancellor of Justice estimates that the rate should not go. A representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that disputes with a higher claim for property are usually more expensive. The lower fees are proportionally higher because recourse to the courts is not an emotional decision. Taking into account the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, according to the Ministry, would inevitably lead to the need to increase the lower rates. The third question, to which I would point out, was as follows: what would be the impact on the state budget if the law were amended? According to the Ministry of Justice, 5,47 million euros of the state fees were collected last year. This would amount to a total of EUR 1,5 million if state fees were to be charged to the State for dealing with cases on the basis of data for the first nine months of 2014. This leads to the conclusion that if the highest rate of state fees in court proceedings was EUR 1000, the State would be deprived of an estimated EUR 1120000 of state fees. According to the Ministry of Justice, this deficit should be covered by an increase in the rates of state fees below EUR 1000. They also asked how much state fees are in other European countries. An in-depth analysis of this has been added to draft 206. Following the discussion in the Commission, the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs voted in favour of and against proposal 31 by the Chancellor of Justice. There were no abstentions. The Committee on Monetary Affairs therefore recommends that the House should not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U64	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Good fellows! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, before we go to the vote, I inform you that the President will put the question to the vote who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. A majority of votes in favour is required for the adoption of the proposal. Dear colleagues, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 32 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U65	Let's move on to item 11. This is the first reading of the draft Public Transport Act 812 initiated by the Economic Commission. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 March 2013, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft Public Transport Act, which was dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Riigikogu until the second reading in plenary. a on June 18, when the Government withdrew the draft for procedural reasons. The Committee on Economic Affairs has now decided to reopen the draft with the same content. The text of the draft proposal contains the amendments approved by the Committee on Economic Affairs in its 404 proceedings. In addition, it has mainly made technical clarifications and improvements, some of which are due to amendments to other laws. The current text of the Public Transport Act entered into force on 1 October 2000. Since then, the law has been amended a few dozen times and the large volume of amendments led to the drafting of a new complete text of the law. Now to the contents. The main objectives of the Act are as follows: The first objective is to enable increased competition in bus and coach transport and to ensure stable quality of transport services. Under the current rules, a carrier already authorised to operate a particular route can serve that route for as long as it wishes, while the possibility for other carriers to compete is relatively limited. According to the new draft, the situation will improve as new carriers will be able to compete if they offer equivalent or better transport conditions than existing carriers. The carrier applying for a new line authorisation must submit the conditions for the carriage of a particular line which it must respect within two years of receipt of the line authorisation. Such regulation will make carriers think more about their options and intentions in the provision of transport services and will help to ensure the quality of transport services. The second objective is to improve the quality of the taxi service by regulating it. There is a requirement that a taxi driver must have a service card. This requires the taxi driver to comply with certain conditions, such as that he has not been punished for certain offences or that he knows enough Estonian. The regulation on the rights and obligations of the parties to the contract of carriage, the carrier and the passenger, has also been amended. Since the rules relating to the contract of carriage, as one of the types of contract, are laid down in the relevant chapter of the Law of Obligations Act, as well as the general provisions of the Law of Obligations Act apply to the contract of carriage, the Public Transport Act only regulates what is deemed necessary to lay down or specify otherwise than the Law of Obligations Act. In order to increase consumer protection, local authorities will be given the opportunity to set the highest permitted rate of start-up charge, mileage fee and time fee for taxi transport. The third objective is to amend the regulation on public service obligations in such a way as to comply with European Union law. The fourth objective is to clarify the basis for setting the ticket price and granting the travel discounts. For example, a gap has been filled in the current law, which so far lacks a clear mandate to set the price of vehicle transport in ferry traffic between the mainland and the islands. The basis for granting travel incentives has also been made more precise. The draft has sought to resolve problems arising from the law in force. For example, all persons carrying out the carriage of passengers free of charge are subject to an authorisation requirement. It may be a taxi licence or a Community licence. Currently, there are problems with carriers in the grey area, which essentially provide taxi services under car rentals or other names, but without a taxi licence. This form of business should not be prohibited in itself, but it is logical that it should be subject to similar rules for the carriage of paid passengers, such as taxiing. For example, a person providing limousine services may obtain a Community licence. Such arrangements also allow for a better understanding of carriers and more effective controls. There have also been some problems with the implementation of the current law in relation to travel discounts. First, the current law uses the term "child of preschool age', the content of which is not open and which has created ambiguities. Now the effort has been made to eliminate this deficiency. There have also been problems with the documents to be submitted to demonstrate the existence of travel incentives. In particular, drivers of public transport have had difficulties in assessing the authenticity of the document to be submitted. To address this issue, for example, an exhaustive list of documents to be provided to prove the travel benefit from disability has been established. As has already been pointed out, the entire regulation on taxi transport has been reviewed, which in practice is one of the most important areas of discussion. As one of the substantive changes, the Government of the Republic may in future authorise the Road Administration to perform the current public transport tasks of the county government instead of the county government. When planning regular traffic within just one county, people's modern mobility needs cannot be taken into account, as people's living and working places or, for example, institutions and companies providing services need no longer be located in the same county due to changes in attraction centres. The Public Road Administration, as the authority that takes account of the larger picture, can therefore organise the line traffic more efficiently and on a more needs-based basis. The deadline for the transfer of tasks shall be set taking into account the need for operations prior to the transfer of obligations and shall be set at a sufficient time. The draft law amending the Emergency Act, the Public Transport Act and the State Fees Act, which is expected to be read in the first reading next week, is also related to the draft. If the amendments to the Public Transport Act provided for in this draft are supported, the new draft Public Transport Act must also be amended accordingly. The proposed draft does not yet include an entry into force clause; it is planned to be added between two readings. We consider it reasonable that the law should not enter into force earlier than three months after the adoption of the bill as a law. This should be sufficient time for companies and other parties affected by the draft to be able to prepare and restructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U67	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U68	Thank you. Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. You know the peculiarity of Kohtla-Järve is that the districts are up to 15 kilometres from each other. Public transport routes pass through the territory of two municipalities, Kohtla rural municipality and Jõhvi rural municipality. This dispute with the county government has been going on for many years, and I would like to know your opinion. Who there has to organise public transport contracts and public procurements in this area, either the county government or the city government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U69	The new draft gives more flexibility. When this bill was drawn up at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, my understanding is that the law does not impose too many restrictions or draw harsh lines. Specific cases should be taken into account. This organiser can be a local government and the local government is legally entitled to cooperate with another local government. But the organizer may also be the county government. At the same time, there is a new idea that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications may also give the Public Transport Administration the power to organise public transport. In fact, we are also given the authority to organise public transport for non-profit organisations; we have public transport centres in certain places. I do not know very well about the organisation of public transport in Kohtla-Järve and I do not know how to respond to specific rural areas, but the law should provide sufficient opportunities. If there's a desire to solve this problem, it's not behind the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U70	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U71	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good chairman of the committee! At the beginning of this week, Estonian Railway sent a letter to all local governments that due to the lack of money, they will no longer be clearing their infrastructure in the winter months, i.e. depots and other small stops from the snow. They expect understanding from local authorities, which means that they really hope that local authorities will do the job themselves. I think it's outrageous and completely ridiculous. Will Bill 812 also resolve this issue and still stipulate that the owner of one or the other public transport object must keep it in order during both winter and summer months?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U72	I haven't seen a particular letter, and I'm hearing about this problem for the first time. Perhaps I am inaccurate in the details, but in my opinion there is a principle in the law that the carrier must also take care of the infrastructure. But let's try to get into it, and maybe at second reading, we'll get the answer to what part of the railway company has to take care of. The railroad itself, perhaps, is definitely under it, but I really don't know what part of the stopland.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U73	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U74	I have a request, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Since this is really a very difficult issue in Ida-Virumaa, concerning the municipality of Jõhvi and Kohtla and the city of Kohtla-Järve, I would ask you, before we discuss this draft for the second time, to go into this problem. Then perhaps you will answer whether it has to be organised by the town of Kohtla-Järve or by a smaller municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U75	Thank you. I'm sure we will. Good guess. During the second reading, the Commission will be able to look for detailed solutions using concrete examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U76	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U77	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that the organisation of public transport would be more flexible than before. I'm asking about the county lines. Am I right to understand that, in principle, the county routes could also be operated by NGO, various transport centres that have developed, as well as local authorities, county government, ministry and the Road Administration? Is such a varied choice really the right one? And how will it be financed? When municipalities organise, the municipalities pay, and when the state organises, the state pays? Or will the state compensate the NGOs and local governments if they do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U78	Thank you. I think it makes sense to ensure flexibility in the law, including funding. If the state sees that there is a reason for this and there is some form of regional or national influence, then it is likely that resources will be found for this. Perhaps it will be easier to look for an answer and to look at current practice on the basis of a concrete example. I am not under the impression that we are now conducting a major revolution in bus and coach transport. Rather, we have the impression that we are bringing the law into line with real life. In fact, various solutions are already in use in the organisation of public transport, but perhaps not all of them follow the meaning of the current law. Now we are bringing the law into line with the real diversity of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U79	Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There's something I want to clarify. You said they'd authorize the Road Administration and the County Administration. Who gives to who? Right now, I agree with Valeri Korb, with public transport in Ida-Virumaa quite confusing stories, with problems between several municipalities. Who's the authorising officer who's authorising someone to arrange public transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U81	It is logically possible to mandate it downwards. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications can authorise the Road Administration, the municipalities can authorise non-profit organizations. That hierarchical logic is in the law. But specifically for Kohtla-Järve, I can't answer right now, I don't have that competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U82	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. I will add more examples of real life. There are about 30000 apartments in Narva, there are 60000 people living and there are just over 10,000 gardening cooperative properties outside the city border. About half of the city goes there from April to October and basically uses public transport. For us, the coordination of these routes is a huge headache because we cannot allow a person to drive a city bus to the city border, but then have to go out and wait for another bus. I wouldn't have put this up if it was a government bill, but it's an economic committee bill. Why don't you take this issue into consideration and ensure the presence of people who can explain it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U84	Let's get this on the table. But it makes sense that local authorities also cooperate on these issues. There is an example of Tallinn in the materials at our disposal: the bus transport of the capital is also carried out in Viimsi municipality, for example. So, in my opinion, these things work in local governments. True, perhaps the smaller or poorer municipality does not always want to pay for it or deal with this problem. But let's ask the specialists how things are in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U85	Good waitress, thank you! There don't seem to be any more questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission, as I understand it, is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline of 2 January 2015 at 4 p.m. for the submission of draft 812 amendments. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U86	Dear colleagues, I have an important message for you! In fact, a letter has come to the Board of the Riigikogu where the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposes to exchange the draft law amending the Income Tax Act to be discussed today, 11 December in plenary, by the committee. Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is requested to make a presentation in place of Mr Remo Holsmer. The Bureau does not object to this; we support it. We are now going to the processing of this item, which is entitled 'First reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Central Party'. Please present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, You are likely to be familiar with the content of this bill. The income tax rate will fall from 21% to 20% next year. The Estonian Centre Party proposes not to do so. A 1% reduction in income tax may seem positive, but only if you do not see what is actually happening because of it. If we take the tens and tens of thousands of people who are working and receiving the minimum wage was already discussed yesterday, then for them the reduction of the tax rate by 1% means EUR 2 20 cents per month, or EUR 26,6 per year, which is not very significant. From 1 January onwards, the person earning the average salary wins less than 100 euros, namely 97 euros, the member of the Riigikogu wins 373 euros and the Prime Minister wins 583 euros. I mean, the difference is dozens of times. When it is said that the reduction in income tax solves some social problems, what financial and social problems could our Prime Minister have? Such a reduction in income tax raises two questions personally. To tell you about the first one, I'll just tell you a story. In some African countries, monkeys are caught in the jungle by tying a bottle to a tree, letting an apple in the bottle. The apple must be such that it fits in the neck of the bottle, and the neck of the bottle must be such that the monkey living in the vicinity can put his hand in it. And when he gets his hand in and grabs that apple, then, damn it, he's so greedy he won't open his fist under any circumstances. The hunter comes and picks up the monkey by the bottle. This picture comes to mind when I think about lowering my income tax. In my opinion, our government and the government coalition have become greedy and have lost their minds just as much as the poor African monkey. It is no longer understood what is being done in one decision or another. Or the other way around, you'll understand. That would be a question. Question two. We are moving from Africa to Ancient Greece, where I think I've talked about this before, but I really like this practice in some of the city states that if someone wanted to change some law, he had to make his proposal standing under the gallows. The people were standing around, and when most decided that this was a necessary legislative amendment, the proposer came down alive. If the majority of the people opposed the proposal, he was hanged. I have a question: how many minutes would our Prime Minister live if the people knew that the planned reduction in income tax would result in a minimum wage of EUR 26 and Prime Minister EUR 583? Such a measure does not serve the interests of the majority of the population. But it would be easy to solve this problem now if the draft law amending the Estonian Central Party's Income Tax Act was supported. Yesterday, we had a brief discussion about this. This is very much needed money, so it could allow free travel on county lines, it could support our landmen, increase direct aid paid to Estonian farmers to the extent permitted by the European Union, thus more funding for local roads to be avoided, allow special-purpose diesel fuel to be used for heating next year and thus prevent tax increases. This would make it possible to increase the school lunch allowance from 78 cents to 1 euro, which should be more or less sufficient. So our proposal is practical in every way, correct in every way, and I would say, of course, completely ethical in comparison to what the Government of the Republic has done in the meantime. Thank you, colleagues. Please support this!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U88	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You guys had a great talk about monkeys and everything. But in shaping our tax policy, we still need to look at the broader context. This year Finland, for example, reduced corporate tax from 24.5% to 20%. We can also make comparisons here as to how many, several hundred million or several billion multinational groups win thanks to this tax policy decision in Finland. But what I am asking is that if you start raising the corporate tax rate by 1%, for example, while other countries are lowering it, is this really the right step in terms of our economic environment and the competitiveness of businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U90	Good waitress, one more question for you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U91	A very nice question, and for the first time, I don't know, I guess in 16 years, I'm amazed. Am I sleeping and dreaming or what? I'm talking about personal income tax. I don't understand how the corporate tax issue came into play here. It's a separate subject. I don't know, maybe I'm getting something wrong, but it was kind of out of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U92	Thank you, manager. Good colleague waitress! It is always said that if we reduce income tax, we will improve the business environment. This is my personal income tax, which I, as a member of the Riigikogu, give up at 20 or 21%. There is always a contrast between these personal benefits and the benefits to society. Where does this view come from, that it will stimulate Estonian business if the rate of income tax is lowered?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U93	Thank you, dear colleague. There's a very short answer to that, which comes from this finger. We're still sucking answers from the finger. I mean, we have this fashion that, if there's a reason to do this, this idea will be put in place at the beginning, which needs to be justified, and then a cloud of fiction will be redeployed, which should support it. You know very well that there are very few things in the economy that are unambiguously acceptable. If you just ignore any facts, you can justify whatever you want. Absolutely! Tomorrow someone will come and explain the need to increase the income tax rate to 30%. He's gonna explain it, but the day after tomorrow, someone's gonna come and say it needs to be reduced to 10%. It is a purely political decision, depending on who holds the power. It justifies its decision and usually does so in such a way that the majority support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U94	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U95	Good waitress! I'm trying to put my mind into the question format. I am not mistaken when I say that, as the Central Party Group has proposed to amend this law, it does not distinguish between personal and corporate income tax? In other words, would the 21% income tax be maintained for businesses, as it is today? Would this withdrawal of the 1% reduction in income tax already adopted as a law apply to both a natural person and a company?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U96	I think that, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you know this subject better than I do, all the more so when, less than a year ago, you were in opposition and supported similar ideas. But if it is possible to interpret the wording of the draft as such and as such, then there is a second reading. Right now, you're saying that this bill can be understood in two ways. Great! We will go through first reading and, for second reading, we will prepare exactly the text that the Committee on Monetary Affairs agrees with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U97	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a request for you to clarify the draft that you are presenting. There is no dual understanding here: this change in the rate concerns the tax burden on both individuals and companies. But I ask you this: do you have a plan to make an amendment and remove the increase in the tax burden on the company from the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U99	I am an authorised representative of the group in this remote area, and we only talked about the self-employed. So I can definitely promise you that we will not have a mess like that in Finland. Order in that sense, as you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U100	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at two meetings: 17 November and 1 December. I will give an overview of the debate that took place on 17 November and I will later mark why we had a meeting on 1 December. On 17 November, the initiator's representative presented the draft. This representative was different than today in this Chamber, but the content and argument of his story was quite similar to what just sounded here. That's why I'm not gonna say it again. However, I will give an overview of what the government representative presented to us in the form of Elo Haugas, adviser to the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft. One of the government's tax objectives is to reduce taxes on labour, and lowering the tax rate is an important step towards this objective. It should also be taken into account that the repeal of the legislation providing for a reduction in the tax rate would undermine the legitimate expectations of taxpayers, especially if it were such a short notice. The principle of legal certainty requires a reasonable period of time between the adoption of a rule and its entry into force. If the draft 733 were adopted, this period would be unreasonablely short. It should also be borne in mind that the tax reduction provision has already been adopted in mid-2011 and entered into force on 1 January 2012. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft. I will also briefly give an overview of what debate has arisen in the context of this draft in the Commission. The opinion was expressed that the government did not see the problem of breach of legitimate expectations and trust referred to when the regulation on parental pension was amended. It was also asked that when the VAT rate was increased by 2% in 2009, what legitimate expectation existed at the time. And pensioners also had a legitimate expectation of an indexed pension increase, which, according to one member of the Commission, has not been made within five years. It was also noted that the rates of income tax laid down in the Law have been amended several times in the past for subsequent years. For example, in 2008, the law provided for a reduction in the rate of income tax to 18% in 2011 but the government did not care about the principle of legitimate expectations and canceled the reductions in the tax rate. However, it was pointed out that the arguments of the originator's explanatory memorandum are to a large extent misleading. No reference is made to more recent studies, the conclusions do not coincide with the actual situation and the content of the analysis carried out by the European Commission. In most countries, tax rates have not changed in recent years, while some countries have lowered them, with no fewer than those who have raised them. With countries that have reduced the income tax rate, we have said to have more to do with, for example, Latvia and Lithuania. A representative of the Ministry of Finance said that the direction is to reduce income tax rates for both natural and legal persons. According to the originator's representative, most countries have not changed the tax rates and this is also the objective of the initiators. We have increased consumption taxes, their rates are higher than the average in the European Union and the euro area, and the tax burden has allegedly increased because of this. Following this discussion and the personal convictions of the members of the Commission, the Commission adopted the following decisions: It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 2 December, which was a consensual decision, and to propose that the draft be rejected. It was voted in favour by 6 and 2 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. On Monday of last week's working week, the initiator's representative asked the Commission to propose that the draft be withdrawn from the agenda of the plenary session on 2 December and that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 December next week. The members of the Commission did not object. At the request of the initiator, the Finance Committee decided to propose that draft 733 be removed from the agenda for the 10th working week and put on the agenda this week. It was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U102	Thank you. You have questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U103	Thank you. We always have to compare ourselves to our neighbors. As far as I am aware, the income tax of an individual in Latvia is higher than in Estonia. Latvia's economic growth was twice as high in the last five years as in Estonia. There is company tax in Latvia, real estate tax in Latvia, car tax in Latvia. However, companies there deliver and economic growth is twice as high as in Estonia. Haven't we gone somewhere wrong? Do you not personally believe that we could keep the tax rate the same and at the same time we would save Estonian agriculture, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U104	There were a lot of questions, I'm trying to answer them in turn. As far as Latvia is concerned, I would certainly not draw a very clear parallel between one or two years of growth and very specific tax rates. It is certainly much more difficult to assess why growth in one country or another is faster at some point and slower at some point. As far as corporate tax is concerned, the rate is 15% in Latvia, we still have 21% at the moment and 20% in the following year. Latvia has so-called traditional corporate income tax. But it doesn't really say much, because all countries with traditional corporate income tax apply a lot of differences. For example, if we look at the effective corporate tax rate, it is the same in Latvia as in Estonia. But in Lithuania, where corporate income tax is also 15%, this effective rate is lower than we do. So, above all, in the case of corporate tax, the whole package must certainly be looked at, the tax rate alone and the form in which the tax is calculated on profits do not always give a good picture. In this context, there is certainly no reason to argue that Latvia's tax policy can, if you look at labour taxes or property taxes, identify the reason why there is a difference between us and their economic growth. As far as my personal opinion is concerned, I have been able to express this in the context of the debate on the state budget, and that has not changed. I think that instead of a tax reduction with this price tag, the money could also be used in a better way, but I fully agree with the Government's position, as well as with the opinions expressed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that, if the tax rate which is now in force on 1 January were to be abolished, this would clearly be a legitimate violation of the principle of expectation. In any case, I am sure to see a strong grating in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U105	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U106	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. In some ways, you may agree that a few days remain until the end of the year and, if the reduction in income tax is cancelled next year, it is at least a legitimate violation of expectations. But on 1 December last year, the Social Democratic Party submitted exactly the same draft to the Riigikogu proceedings. At the time, the current President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, said that it was not in the interests of most people in Estonia to implement the electoral banner during and after the Reform Party, and so reversing these tax provisions is the only possible way. I very much hope that all Estonian political parties who are in parliament will act in the interests of the Estonian people, including the Social Democratic Party. Do you, in the meantime, have any research done or other information received that the reduction in the income tax rate is in the interests of the Estonian people? Why were you in favour of this last year on 1 December and thought it was in the interests of the Estonian people, but today it is no longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U107	Our views on whether this is in the interests of all Estonians or most Estonians have not changed in the meantime. As I have noted, in my opinion, and when I say this, I dare to represent the entire Social Democratic Party Group, it would certainly be possible to find a different application for this money, which we believe would be more in the interests of Estonian society. But I also said that it is certainly not reasonable, in my opinion, to cancel the reduction in the rate of income tax with such a short notice. This has already been taken into account by private individuals as well as businesses, and tax changes could be subject to the principle that they have been announced for a relatively long time in advance. That is what we have been trying to build on in the current coalition, which is why we have already made tax changes at the spring session, precisely so that those affected by the changes would know them in advance as long as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U108	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U109	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a question. Can you tell me how much the state budget will lose in the coming year due to a reduction in the rate of income tax? And specifically, please! And the second question. You said that new studies have been carried out to justify the step you are currently defending. Can you tell us what specifically benefits the reduction in income tax to the state budget on the basis of these studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U110	To answer the first question, it also depends on how much dividends are distributed by companies next year. But the amount is between 70 and 80 million. Personally, I've operated with 75 million. The exact amount will be determined ex post each year, but this is the order of magnitude. I have not claimed that new studies have been carried out. I just gave an overview of what was said in the Commission and it referred, if I remember correctly, to Eurostat's rather good overview of changes and trends in the tax policies of the countries of the European Union in 2014. It was published in June, as it is every year. This is what the studies referred to in the committee, as I recall. There are no direct conclusions as to whether one or the other tax reduction or increase is good. It does not evaluate as much as it states what is happening in the Member States in this area, what are the trends across Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U111	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Is it the case with the socialists that we support one bill in the same way, we talk about one thing, and when the next bill comes, we talk about another? When we talked about environmental charges a few days ago, you said that the authorities could probably circle their affairs at the last minute, there was no question that we would take these fees away. The fact that they accounted for this money is not an argument. Talk in the morning, talk in the evening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U113	To be honest, I have not spoken this morning myself, and in that sense I cannot give a very precise assessment of whether your statement is quite correct. However, I think it would make sense, in general, if any changes concerning individuals, legal persons and other institutions, such as local authorities, were known to everyone in advance as long as possible. It is not a good idea to change the tax system quickly, to change the principles of the income base in the context of local governments. There are also examples in history that such decisions have been made quickly, especially in times of crisis. At the time, I was responsible for the finances of a local government and I know that this is extremely uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U114	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U115	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. I am now addressing you as chairman of the committee. There is a certain absurdity in this debate. Why? Because we are discussing something that should have been done at least before the third reading of the draft state budget law. Yesterday the budget was adopted, today our draft came to the first reading. All right, if it had been received a week ago, but it was received September 25th. As chairman of the committee, tell me why it was necessary to stretch like this. Why could the same draft, probably with the same result, not be discussed when the state budget was still in the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U116	Thank you. I guess there was an answer to that question. In fact, the procedure for this draft was scheduled for last week, but the initiator's proposal was to postpone it by a week, and consequently the Commission decided by consensus. According to the original plan, the draft would have been pending if the State Budget Act had not yet been passed in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U117	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U118	Thank you. I will ask again about the amendment of the Environmental Charges Act, which is exactly the same in the same short notice period. Am I to understand that you do not support such rapid changes and are against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U119	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U120	I expressed the general principle. Such rapid changes are not the best solution. I do not rule out the need to do them at certain times, but it is certainly not a practice that could become the rule. In general, tax changes and any changes to the income base for those affected could be known for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U121	Thank you. The Social Democrats have been opposed to a tax reduction until they went to the government and have supported progressive income tax. Now, while in the government coalition, your position has changed to the contrary. It is true that you have already stressed in the spring, already in the spring, that you are in favour of it because it is a principle of legal expectation. At the same time, there would have been enough time to speak out in the spring so that you could also express your ideology in practical governance. I would also like to say that it was only yesterday that we approved the State Tax Act, which amended state fees quite a few weeks before the law came into force. So this spring talk isn't true. But here's my question. When you canceled your parental pension, you did not see any conflict with the principle of legal expectation. In the case of tax reductions, you find that there is a contradiction. Explain why such an important difference!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U122	The important difference lies primarily in the time factor. As regards the so-called parental pension, this change was adopted in the spring almost six months earlier than it should have come into force. Of course, in theory, it would have been possible to cancel the reduction of the income tax rate in the spring and perhaps it would have been on much weaker legs to refer to the principle of legitimate expectations. However, I would point out that the Social Democrats were not in the coalition when this reduction was decided and adopted. This was done by the coalition that emerged immediately after the elections in 2011. So, in itself, we have not supported it. But at the moment, we do not support the proposal to amend the decision adopted at the time, which would mean that the income tax rate would remain the same next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U123	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U124	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! For me, it is incomprehensible how one party may politically not support the maintenance of tax rates, but on the other hand, as if it did not support its own principles. It's kind of weird. But I have a question about the future. Does the 2016 budget also provide for a reduction in the rate of income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U125	Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U126	The current fiscal strategy does not foresee any reduction in the rate of income tax in the coming years. What exactly will be the 2016 budget will also depend on what will happen on 1 March and in the weeks immediately following. However, the current fiscal strategy does not foresee a reduction in the rate of income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U127	Thank you. My question was not before, nor is it now whether the tax reduction is right or wrong, good or bad, and which target groups and how it affects. My question is motivated by the fact that, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you also said personally that the amendment of the Income Tax Act is contrary to the principle of legal expectation. At the same time, the withdrawal of parental pension, which had been legalised in the past, is not in your opinion contrary to the principle of legal expectation. What's the difference? I repeat: what do you think is the difference? It was possible to change both in the spring, but your attitude towards these drafts has been different. What does it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U128	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U129	That I have argued that the withdrawal of the reduction of the natural person and the corporate tax rate in the spring would be contrary to legal expectations, I do not recall. I don't remember saying that. If the questioner has any other information, you might want to submit it. But what's the difference between these two things? Like I said, right now, the difference is there's a time factor in the game. What is there to deny, nor have I ever made a secret of it before, and obviously no one in this Chamber will be news or surprised by the fact that the formation of coalitions in our parliamentary system means compromises, and this decision is a compromise for the social democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U130	Thank you. You stated that if you were in a coalition, you had to compromise. Last time you went to the government, it was in 2007 and the law amending the Income Tax Act was enacted, which provided for income tax to fall to 21% in 2008, income tax to be 20% in 2009, income tax to be 19% in 2010 and 18% from 2011. We are in a situation where income tax is still 21% this year, and you said that there is no further reduction in the budget strategy. What's changed since then? In 2007, such a long decline was foreseen, why can't the Estonian state afford it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U131	Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U132	Thank you. I think that the Estonian state has, in the meantime, made adjustments in its understanding, and in my personal opinion, in the right direction. That's what's changed since then. You referred to legal certainty or legitimate expectations. The amendments decided in 2009 were made with a very long perspective, so I do not think that anyone should have had a legitimate expectation of a tax reduction for that long. I think the principle of legitimate expectation was not violated in the case of decisions at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U133	I ask you this: are you discussing every bill about how such a terrible situation has arisen that the Social Democrats are part of the coalition and the Centre Party and the IRL are not part of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U134	Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U135	Not every draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs raises this issue, but from time to time it does arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U136	Thank you! Please explain once again this principle of legitimate expectation! We are in a situation where the percentage of income tax is 21. And if it lasts for 21%, where is that justified interference with the principle of expectation? We currently have 21% income tax, the draft proposes that it will also be 21% next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U137	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U138	It is not only the current situation that is concerned with the violation of legitimate expectations, but the decisions taken which can be taken into account by the subjects affected by the law adopted. There are certainly theoretical constructions that some companies have taken into account when investing in Estonia, for example, the tax environment that should apply here since 2015. So it is not a question of what the current situation is. It is rather a question of which laws have been adopted, which innovations are expected to actually be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U139	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Now I ask as a voter who will have to make a decision on 1 March to support the party. I like politicians and parties whose words and actions coincide. The Social Democrats have twice been in government and supported the reduction of personal income tax. However, you will not do so in press releases and in your platform introduction. As a voter, I ask quite directly: do the Social Democrats support the reduction in personal income tax or do they not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U140	Social Democrats do not support further reductions in income tax rates. We don't think it should fall below 20%. There have been different political parties in the coalition and government over time. Some of them have supported progressive income tax, but we know that there is no progressive income tax in Estonia. If you look back in history, you will find examples that no political party can get an absolute majority if our electoral system is in place. And I think it is a good system, because it means that certain compromises will inevitably have to be made in the coalition negotiations. The Social Democrats have also done and will continue to do so. The question is what are our priorities. With regard to the current coalition, our priority has clearly been children and related to them. This is reflected in the increase in children's benefits and the extension of free school meals to upper secondary school students.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U141	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. We're opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to ask Mr Stalnukhin to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U142	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This debate reminded us of a situation in which someone has taken a hot potato out of a fire and is now trying to throw it to one another. 'You're such bad guys,' sounds on the one hand. 'You didn't support the reduction of the income tax rate a year ago, now you support it again! ' From there the potato will be thrown back: 'But you originally passed this law! " And that's how it works. And here in the meantime, the Reform Party sits calmly, who actually figured this whole thing out and pushed it through, so good people have to suffer. Listen, I remember a fairy tale. Two cubs found a piece of cheese and couldn't share it. A fox came, in our case a squirrel, and offered his service: I help! And started sharing cheese. It ended with the cubs fighting, no cheese, but the fox, or squirrel, is full. And disappears. Colleagues, once the state budget has been adopted, there can only be a purely theoretical interest in discussing this issue. We should discuss other matters with you. The time has long come when the political forces represented in the Riigikogu should simply gang up the reformers in the interests of the Estonian state. Turns out, the length of a minute depends on which side of the door you're on. And that's it! It all depends on whether you're on the side of the door with the Reform Party or on the other side. George, you're the only one who represents the Socialists here. Do you remember what we talked about a year ago? We were talking about the coalition, how impudent he is, how he pushes through his decisions, and you assured me we weren't like that. If we're in the coalition, it's gonna be different. Remember, in Riga late at night? I'm sorry to lift it out like this, but it's typical. Everyone cheats! Each of the old experienced politicians thinks that he can rehabilitate the Reform Party and do something good with him. It's not gonna work! And while I'm here to tell the IRL that we're forgetting some questions, we're gonna find a consensus, and we're gonna talk about how to make a human-friendly government once and for all, we're done. Really! So, ladies and gentlemen, hardly as a result of this debate will change anything in terms of the Income Tax Act, but we have learned a useful lesson at the end of this Thursday's session. How long do you think we're gonna be yelling at each other? However, a party that has actually turned all this together sits quietly and feels like it hasn't even taken part in the process. Let's see if something comes up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U143	Jüri Morozov, would you like to make a reply on the matter? Please, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U144	Thank you. Since my name was mentioned, I will tell a good colleague that it is those in the coalition and those in the opposition. I understand you've been in the opposition for a very long time, and that's a serious problem, but that's the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U145	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The OECD, which is clearly one of the most authoritative institutions in tax matters and which makes the undoubtedly best global expertise in tax matters, has made it very clear in its studies that, if taxes are ranked according to which one of them places a greater burden on the economic environment, income tax comes first. Income tax is considered to be the most burdensome. This is followed by consumption taxes and is considered to be the least burdensome in terms of property taxes. In any case, when we decided to reduce income tax in 2011, we also decided to make our economic environment more competitive and growth-friendly. If we look at the steps that the countries around us have taken, especially the close neighbours, who are our main trading partners, but also our competitors, we all want to get more investment and more jobs, then over the last five years the development has been such that corporate tax has been reduced quite strongly, individual income tax has remained more or less the same, but consumption taxes have increased. So countries have gone down the road to reducing the share of direct taxes and increasing the share of indirect taxes. I see no reason why we should do the opposite of how other countries have behaved rationally over the last ten years, or if you wish. But now for the bill we're discussing today. First of all, I would like to say that it is still outrageous that the authorised representative of the initiators of the draft says, in answer to my question, that this draft does not concern businesses. It's the other way around. Here are two options: whether the authorised representative of the initiators is not familiar with the draft which he has just presented here, or whether it was a major public confusion. After all, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that this also concerns the tax burden on both individuals and companies. I very much hope that the initiator, the Central Party Group, will correct what their authorised representative has told us here. However, as far as this draft is concerned, the Group of the Reform Party will certainly not be able to support our draft, which is deteriorating the economic environment, which reduces our competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-11_U147	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 733 at first reading and we must vote on it. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 733 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 delegates voted in favour, 15 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda today is exhausted, the session is closed. I wish everyone a lovely evening and a lovely weekend! See you Monday! Closure of the sitting at 12.35 p.m.
