ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 15th working week Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U2	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have an inquiry to report to Minister Urmas Kruus on behalf of the seven members of the Centre Party Group. The subject is the availability of specialist medical care in South Estonia, especially in Tartu. We have been approached by an association on the same issue, and we have four questions to the Minister in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U3	There are no more requests. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, let's do the presence check. Aborting presence check. Rein Randver, please, a procedural question! Rein Randver's microphone is down. Wait a minute, we need this microphone to work for the record.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. My card doesn't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U5	Doesn't the map work? It's working now. Let's try it again. Good fellows, please, let's do the presence check! 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. There is one clarification on today's agenda. The last item is the debate on the National Waste Plan 2014 to 2020 and the Committee on the Environment has proposed that, if necessary, the session be extended until the item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We will come back to this proposal as necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U6	The first item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and the appointment of new members' draft 670. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and the appointment of new members'. [[The manager's ringing the bell, it's buzzing in the hall.]] May I continue? Thank you, Mr President. According to § 49 (3) of the Forest Act, the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre is nine members. Two members are appointed by decision of the Riigikogu. According to § 49 (5) of the same Act, the Riigikogu appoints the members of the Supervisory Board by decision on a proposal from the Environmental Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U8	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows! There is too much buzzing in the hall, so I am absolutely sure that those who are being recalled from the Council, and those who are being appointed there, will not hear anything. Please, let us honor the waitress and honor those who wish to listen to the waitress! Please, continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U9	Thank you. At its meeting on 12 May, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that Liisa-Ly Pakosta and Jaanus Tamkivi be recalled from the Supervisory Board of RMK and that members of the Riigikogu be appointed to the Supervisory Board of RMK Karel Rüütel and Jaan Õunapuu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U10	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, do you basically support the membership of the councils of state-owned companies in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U12	Basically, it does not support, but at the moment the law provides that members of the Riigikogu must be members of the council of this state profit-making institution, and this cannot be viewed in two ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U13	Andrus Ansip, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U14	Thank you. What fundamental distinction do you see between a state-owned company and the State Forest Management Centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U15	I don't think there's any difference in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U16	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U17	Thank you. I come back to the fact that, in principle, you do not support it, but in particular, you will support and appoint two Social Democrats to the Council, or rather the Riigikogu will appoint. But do these two people necessarily have to be members of the Riigikogu or can we also choose from outside the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U18	If it is said that the Riigikogu will appoint, it will appoint from among the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U19	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 670. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft decision of 670. Please take a stand and vote. There are 48 members of the Riigikogu, 14 against, 1 abstention. Draft 670 of the Riigikogu decision "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and appointment of new members' submitted by the Environmental Committee has been adopted as a decision. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U20	Let's move on to the second item. This is the first reading of draft resolution 671 of the Riigikogu 'Appointing an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee' submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Deputy Chair Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I give an overview of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which bears number 671. This is the decision of the Riigikogu to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee. The draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. a on 5 and 12 May and an additional on 15 May. The draft was initiated in accordance with Article 2 (3) of the Agreement between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark concerning the Nordic Investment Bank and Article 2 (3) of the Act on the ratification of the Payment Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank and the Statute of that bank. The Finance Committee proposes to appoint Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, as the representative of Estonia on the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee from 1 June 2014 to 31 May 2016. No proposals were received by the deadline of 14 May at 15. The question raised in the Commission was that perhaps a representative should be appointed for a shorter period. We discussed that perhaps this period should be shortened by one year in connection with the election of the next Riigikogu. Finally, the Committee on Monetary Affairs came to the conclusion that we would still stick to the two-year period, and should there be a need to change the representative of Estonia, the Riigikogu can make this decision. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to place the draft on the agenda on Tuesday 20 May and to put it to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U22	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, do you consider it basically right that members of the Riigikogu belong to company councils?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U24	I believe that those members of the Riigikogu who are legally appointed to the boards of state companies must comply with the law. However, if these are state enterprises, which are not prescribed by law in the Council, then it is correct if they do not belong to the Riigikogu. The Chancellor of Justice has given such an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U25	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The rapporteur himself has worked on the same Bank Audit Committee for the last two years. Could you briefly describe what you've done there in two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U27	The Audit Committee has been set up to ensure that the Bank's activities comply with the Statute. The Audit Committee shall be responsible for auditing the Bank's accounting records and shall submit an annual auditor's opinion to the Board of the Bank. The Audit Committee shall be composed of ten members. It includes representatives from different countries and also from the Nordic Council, mostly MEPs. In particular, it concerns the review and approval of audit opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U28	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U29	Thank you. Honourable waitress, can you tell us which country's companies' councils belong to the members of the Riigikogu that has been appointed by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U30	The review of draft 671 in the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not open a longer discussion on which companies are in the Republic of Estonia, who are members of the boards of companies and on which basis members of the Riigikogu could in future belong to the boards of companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U31	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, do you consider the Nordic Investment Bank to be a company?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U33	I can come back here and express my opinion after the political groups have been given the opportunity to speak. Right now, I'm going to leave my personal opinions at that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U34	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U35	Thank you. Good waitress! Is it not the main problem with this whole company issue that the representative of the executive powers appoints a representative of the legislative power to the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U36	I think this is a very interesting discussion that we could open. In this Riigikogu, it would really be appropriate to debate whether members of the Riigikogu should belong to different companies or should belong to different companies. You asked for my personal opinion. I have already answered one question from Andrus Ansip that if the law does not require members of the Riigikogu to belong to the council of one company or another, I do not think they should be part of it. This position has been taken by the IRL in its activities and during these years the members of the Riigikogu have not been members of the councils of such companies. If it is found at some point that members of the Riigikogu could belong to the councils of state companies where the law does not oblige it, and it is legalised by any procedures, then we can continue to talk. At the moment, I believe that if the law does not provide for this, the members of the Riigikogu should not be part of these councils.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U37	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 671 on the draft. It seems to me that the candidate himself does not protest, so we can proceed to the final vote. I will put draft 671 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 70 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents, no abstentions 3. Draft 671 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U38	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I ask for the Riigikogu Chair of the Vice Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Enn Eesmaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U39	Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the amendment of the composition of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on the basis of a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group. The political group's proposal is to replace Mr Sven Miker, who left the Riigikogu, as a member of the delegation and also head of the delegation Marianne Mikko. Marko Mihkelson, the current Head of Delegation, is hereby appointed a member of the delegation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to support the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group and submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning the amendment of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 9 May. At the meeting of the Commission on 12 May, we took the following decisions by consensus: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 20 May, to hold a final vote and to adopt the draft as a decision. The draft of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is before you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U40	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the lead committee is to conclude the 662 final vote on the draft. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 662 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 59 delegates in favour, there is no one against, and 3 are impartial. Thus, the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation', submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has been adopted as 662 decisions. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U41	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' by the Committee on Foreign Affairs' draft 665. I would like to ask Margus Hanson, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U42	Indeed, on 6 May the Committee on Foreign Affairs submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu for discussion. In essence, it designates Indrek Saar as Head of Delegation and the current Head of Delegation is the alternate member of the Liisa-Ly Pakosta delegation. The deadline for the amendments was 9 May and no amendments were received on that date. At its meeting on 12 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided by consensus to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda for the meeting of the 665 plenary assembly on 20 May, to hold the final vote on the draft and to adopt it as a decision. Margus Hanson was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U43	Good waitress, you have questions. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U44	Mr. Margus Hanson, what is your understanding of whether members of the Riigikogu may belong to state-owned companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U45	Thank you very much. This question has nothing to do with the current item. We want to change the composition of an external delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U46	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U47	Thank you. The proposal to appoint experts instead of members of the Riigikogu to the Parliamentary Assembly has been heard from the Chamber. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U48	I think this proposal is not a good proposal, as only members of the Riigikogu can be present in the delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U49	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U50	Thank you. In the case of a person who was a member of the previous Riigikogu, could he, as an expert, still be a member of the parliamentary assembly delegation, even though he is no longer a member of the Riigikogu? I think his professionalism has survived.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U51	Undoubtedly, his professionalism as an expert may have survived. However, as soon as the new Riigikogu meets, new delegations are formed and, as has been said, certain members of the Riigikogu can only be members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U52	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U53	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You replied to Mr Ansip that an expert could not be appointed to the delegation because the law did not allow it. Can you tell us who's going to pass these laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U54	Members of the Riigikogu are likely to take as experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U55	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U56	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I am looking at today's appointments, all of which relate to the social democrats. Didn't the Reform Party have a candidate for the Assembly? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U57	The Reform Party certainly had its own candidates, but as a result of the negotiations it was realised that Social Democrat Indrek Saar was the best representative.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U58	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, do you think a member of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe can at the same time be a member of the board of companies? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U60	I think it might be, and here the speaker, for example, is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U61	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand from your answers that you looked at the various candidates in the Commission at length and in depth and, above all, compared the nomination of Social Democrat Indrek Saare and your own candidacy. You stated that Indrek Saar won this comparison. Perhaps you can point out what were more positive aspects of his case than the candidate for your home party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U63	The Committee on Foreign Affairs did not discuss this issue so thoroughly that I could give an overview of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U64	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U65	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that you could not appoint experts from the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly. Do you rule out Indrek Saaret being an expert on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U66	Thank you very much for the good question. I'm not gonna rule it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U67	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U68	Thank you. Dear waitress, Maybe I'll help you with my question. Perhaps you can explain what the Council of Europe is and who belong to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Then it would be off the subject of experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U69	The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is made up of members of national parliaments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U70	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U71	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You confirmed that, as a result of the consideration, Indrek Saar proved to be the best candidate, but later you said that the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not consider the candidates very much. So what's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U72	That's the last one. The nominations were discussed before the matter was discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U73	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U74	Has Indrek Saar been elected to the board of any state enterprise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U75	Thank you for a good question. Nor was this discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting before the draft proposal or on 12 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U76	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When I read the bill, I saw that there was not only one member that we stopped for a while, but also one alternate. Can you say a few warm words about him, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U78	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, who is the Head of Delegation until this decision is taken, has been a very active Head of Delegation. But he will continue to be an alternate and will continue to be able to apply his experience in the work of the delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U79	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! You commended Liisa Pakosta, saying that she has been very constructive and active. For what reasons is such a practical and active person being taken down as a leader?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U81	In accordance with the rotation procedure, both its experienced members and its alternates can contribute to the delegation's good performance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U82	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U83	Thank you. Before the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, were other candidates considered for the seat of an alternate member?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U84	I have no record of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U85	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Now, good colleagues, the representatives of the group have the opportunity to start negotiations. There are no requests, so we can go to the commission's proposal to carry out the final vote on draft 665 today. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft decision 665 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. The result of 54 delegates, 6 and 1 abstentions, is the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, adopted as 665 decisions. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U86	We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, the second reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 586. I ask Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 29 January and the first reading took place on 18 March. No proposals were received by the deadline for submitting amendments by 1 April. Very briefly about the content of the amendment. According to the current law, an alien who wishes to have Estonian citizenship must have a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence, he must have lived in Estonia on this basis for at least eight years, the last five years of which are permanent, and a further six months' waiting period will be added. It fully meets the requirements of the European Union. However, the Chancellor of Justice has a practical proposal to make a concession for those young people who have been in Estonia for at least eight years before the age of 15, but who have lacked a legal basis for obtaining Estonian citizenship due to the failure of their representative, which they themselves could not avoid as a minor. This proposal was the basis for the initiation of the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed bringing the draft to second reading at its meeting on 12 May. The only question raised was whether a six-month waiting period after the initial operations had been carried out correctly was justified or not. We considered whether to make the relevant amendment. However, knowing that the Government of the Republic has prepared amendments to the Citizenship Act and that this round of coordination will end already within this week, and that the question of the feasibility of a six-month period of reflection arose, which could not be discussed at this committee meeting with the competent representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board because they were not present, it was decided to leave the debate on shortening this period for the next time. Therefore, no amendments to the draft were proposed. Our proposal is to carry out the third reading on 3 June when the second reading is completed today. The rapporteur was appointed, as Mart Nutt, who made the first reading report of the draft, is unfortunately no longer a member of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U88	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I apologise for my incompetence, but why does the draft set the age limit exactly 15 years and not, for example, 14, 16 or 18 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U90	Thank you. I think this is the age limit which, by law, is the time to apply for citizenship in order to obtain citizenship as an adult. I also point out that many who have not completed this procedure because their representative has not created a legal basis for their stay in Estonia are 15 years old or younger. Most of these more than 400 are children under one year of age, in other words, people who are acutely affected by this problem, who have become 15 and who urgently need Estonian citizenship are relatively few, perhaps less than ten. But this problem may increase in the future, and this prospect was a highly motivated proposal from the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U91	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments have been received for draft 586. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U92	Let's move on to item six. This is the continuation of the second reading of the Act amending the Law on Medicinal Products and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. The rapporteur is Heljo Pikhof, President of the Social Affairs Committee. Dear colleagues, before we continue to read the second reading, let me briefly present the procedure for this debate. This is due to § 105 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, the presentation by the representative of the commission of the draft is up to 20 minutes and, if the rapporteur so wishes, may, in agreement with the President, extend the period of the report in accordance with § 67 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. After that, the questions are for the waitress. A member of the Riigikogu may, within the framework of this item on the agenda, we are currently discussing the sixth item, which concerns the issue of a draft of 615 questions, with up to two oral questions. After that, we will open negotiations and, of course, we will review the amendments at second reading, as well as the Court. Certainly, the rapporteur of the commission will also present the Commission's views and proposals to the plenary, either to stop or to interrupt the second reading. We'll hear about this in the process. Any procedural questions? If not, I would like to present the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee to Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The second reading of the Act amending the Act on Medicinal Products and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Social Committee, was suspended in this Chamber on 14 May this year. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. The Commission discussed the draft at its meetings on 15 May and 19 May. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Social Affairs, Ivi Normet and other officials attended the meeting of the Commission. The Director General of the Medicines Agency Kristin Raudsepp and the advisers of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were also present. By decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 9 December 2013, § 421 (1) of the Pharmaceutical Act was declared unconstitutional and repealed. §421 (1) (3) of the Pharmaceutical Act provides for restrictions on the establishment of new pharmacies and on the extension or transfer of existing pharmacies in cities. The entry into force of the Decision was postponed for six months, as it cannot be excluded that the closure of land pharmacies will increase if the restrictions on establishment are lifted without other measures being imposed. The repeal of the establishment restrictions on the day may impair the availability of the pharmacy service. There would also be a large number of pharmacies, which would make keeping the pharmacy in Estonia as a whole often loss-making as a result of increased labour costs and the total area of pharmacies. Only large pharmacies would probably be able to bear the damage, and it could become impossible for pharmacists to keep a pharmacy in practice. The draft under discussion by the Committee on Social Affairs contains provisions on the reading of pharmacists and pharmacists as health workers, the establishment and organisation of a pharmacy bus, the payment of basic allowance for pharmacists to work in the country and the facilitation of the opening of a pharmacy in small islands. The licence of a general pharmacy may not be granted by wholesale distribution companies or by companies associated with them through their dominant influence. From now on, the establishment of rare pharmacies will only be allowed in rural areas and smaller towns with fewer than 4 000 inhabitants. General pharmacies will also be given the opportunity to arrange for the delivery of medicinal products at the request of the purchaser. However, these measures are not sufficient to ensure that the pharmacy service is available on land. The current deadline has not been sufficient to analyse and set out all measures. As a result, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed an amendment to the temporary regulation on the limitation of the establishment of general pharmacies in high demand areas for a period of one year in order to develop, during that period, a reasoned regulation to ensure access to pharmacy services in rural areas. Minister Urmas Kruuse and Deputy Chancellor Ivi Normet introduced the action plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs for the further organisation of the pharmacy service. This plan provides for an analysis of the impacts of certain options to assess the need for these solutions in rural areas, in other words, from the perspective of ensuring access to medicines in low demand areas. These solutions are as follows: Firstly, the development of a system of operating support for land pharmacies, either with support from the state budget or through the collection of a licence fee for pharmacy services or in some other way. Secondly, in high demand areas, the obligation to ensure access to medicines on land (i.e. the establishment of a general pharmacy or its structural unit) is also imposed on pharmacy providers, either through the Agency at the request of a local authority or on the basis of a national minimum network, through a Chamber of Pharmacists or otherwise. In order to increase the role of pharmacists and pharmacists, the Ministry of Social Affairs Action Plan provides for discussions on the establishment of a Chamber of Pharmacists and the possibility of delegating tasks to the Chamber in the organisation of pharmacy services, as well as an analysis of the implementation of the ownership of pharmacists. It is planned to order an analysis and forecast to assess the labour needs of the various organisational models of the pharmacy service and to submit a training order. It is also necessary to continue activities in order to agree on health services provided by pharmacists and pharmacists at pharmacies, to develop requirements to this effect and to plan the necessary training and funding. The Committee on Social Affairs sought the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the constitutionality of the amendment. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, draft 615 deals with a very complex social, economic and legal problem, to which a satisfactory solution requires a very thorough deepening, hearing the parties and also making the choices considered. The complexity of the problem is also illustrated by the fact that the Supreme Court took almost a year to reach a decision on this matter instead of an orderly four months. The Committee on Social Affairs has done a great deal of work, but it obviously needs more time to find comprehensive and satisfactory regulation. The Constitutional Review Court Procedure Act does not provide for the possibility of requesting additional time to comply with the decision. However, an additional period would be necessary in the general public interest to find a solution to the situation, for which the Riigikogu has both the right and the obligation. For this reason, it is now necessary to establish a temporary temporary regulation in order to continue working within this period to achieve the best result. Temporary regulation in time cannot in itself be contrary to the Constitution, especially if it is established for reasons of general public interest and for convincing reasons. Only the Supreme Court can make a final and binding assessment of the constitutionality of the regulation, as well as of the temporary regulation, using the relevant procedure. The Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to make three amendments. Amendment 1 clarifies the wording of § 1162 of the Pharmaceutical Act. This implementing provision applies to a branch pharmacy located in a city, and the location of the general pharmacy is irrelevant here. Amendment 2 clarifies the wording of § 1164 of the Pharmaceutical Act. The transitional period applies only to competent persons who provide services in a city or an urban municipality with 4,000 or more inhabitants. They may no longer provide services in two places after the end of the transitional period. Amendment 3 introduces a temporary regulation to restrict the authorisation of a general pharmacy for a period of one year. According to the proposal, until 9 June 2015, in a high demand area, the pharmacy can only be opened on a proposal from the local authority and with the consent of the Agency. According to this section, 4000 settlements with more than one resident and at least one operating general pharmacy or a branch pharmacy are considered to be a high demand area. The Social Affairs Committee decided by consensus to submit a draft for the second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 20 May 2014 and to propose the termination of the second reading. If the second reading is completed, we will have a proposal to carry out the third reading on 21 May, or tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U94	Thank you. You have questions too. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U95	Thank you. A good waitress, which, in your opinion, forced the Chancellor of Justice to change his opinion so suddenly? A few years ago, he was the leader of these geographical restrictions, who said that access to medicines is the ultimate right of people. He also stressed that restrictions did not distort the freedom to conduct a business. He thought it was the ultimate responsibility to protect people's lives, and now he speaks of freedom of business as the ultimate benefit. What could be the reason for this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U96	I really don't know what to say. However, the Chancellor of Justice will always have the right to address the Commission if he considers that one or the other provision of law is incompatible with the Constitution. When it comes to the draft medicine law, he can turn to the Social Affairs Committee and demand that one or the other provision be brought into line with the Constitution. If the Commission does not do so, the Chancellor of Justice has the right to address the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U97	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U98	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! The annual limit on the establishment of pharmacies now comes, but what will happen during this year and what will happen in a year? Why is this one year the goal that happens in that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U99	This year is particularly needed in order to develop a proper regulation. After all, we all know that there are now 50.60 land pharmacies that are profitable and sustainable, but we do not want the land pharmacies to disappear. This forced a year's extra time to carry out proper studies, analyses, impact assessments, etc. If you wish, I can read the action plan again, but I have already explained what is going to be assessed and examined. The Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Health of the Ministry of Social Affairs have promised the Social Affairs Committee that at the beginning of June they will present a plan in which rhythm the study of impacts and the writing of the text of the draft law will take place. Then we'll agree on a way forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U100	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U101	Thank you. Now, the situation is that the Supreme Court first lifted the restrictions on establishment because they were unconstitutional, and then the Social Affairs Committee first proposed different restrictions, and now it also reinserted this anti-constitutional restriction. In other words, restrictions have been added, not reduced, and there is also this unconstitutional restriction. How do you explain this absurdity that you are not going to bring the situation into line with the Constitution? And at the same time, when these restrictions apply, land pharmacies are closed each year. You say that closing them will not be ruled out if there are no restrictions anymore, but closing them is not excluded even now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U102	I am the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee from the beginning of April, before me the chairman of the committee was a member of your party. When I became chairman of the committee, we had certain sections on the table that the Government of the Republic had not approved and had to go on from there. There's been very little time, and that's why this year's extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U103	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U104	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. Here's what I'm gonna ask. One important change is separation, i.e. the owners of a wholesale company cannot be the owners of a retail chain. I think this is right, because it promotes competition. But there's one thing I don't understand. If all this has to be arranged by 9 June, will a large number of pharmacies now be placed on the market to find new owners for them? How can changes be implemented in such a short time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U105	Actually, it's three years. A transitional period of three years is sufficient. And there's another transition period. Only general pharmacies may be established in cities and other major settlements from 9 June. If there is now a branch pharmacy in the city or in a settlement with more than 4,000 inhabitants, then there is five years to establish a general pharmacy instead. We have different deadlines to comply with different paragraphs, not all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U106	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U107	Good manager! Good waitress! You mentioned in your presentation that the annual transition period is necessary to take account of the public interest and that there are convincing reasons for it. But you never told me what those public interests and convincing reasons were. Speaking to pharmacists, land pharmacies say that pharmacists simply go to Tallinn and other major places, because there is a better salary. Is that the only good reason? Do you think during the year, the University of Tartu will train pharmacists so much that there will soon be 100, 200 or 300 pharmacists with a diploma and after a year there will be no shortage? Today, this is a major problem in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U108	Why this transition period is, I've talked about it several times here and also through the press. I still came to the hall at the last minute because I had an interview that I couldn't say no to. But yes, the transition period is primarily in the interests of people, so that we also have pharmacies in the country. You're saying that there aren't enough pharmacists. Indeed, we now have 812 pharmacists, but the painting can open branch pharmacies, which are not subject to such high standards as general pharmacies. A pharmacist can also work at a branch store, and we have over 600 pharmacists. In this sense, the situation is not hopeless. However, the fact that pharmacists are few and there should be more is a fact. The Ministry of Social Affairs intends to examine how many pharmacies we need in areas with low demand, where they should be located and how many more pharmacists are needed. If necessary, an additional national order must be submitted so that we can have pharmacists and pharmacists in the future. The problem on Earth is that if there's a pharmacist going to retire and a particular pharmacy isn't in a paying area, it can shut down the pharmacy's doors. There are a variety of problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U109	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U110	Thank you. Good performer! The issue of pharmacies is certainly a health and social problem, which is why the Committee on Social Affairs is dealing with it. But the activities of pharmacies also have an economic side, which includes, among other things, market regulation and competition. Do you consider it possible and necessary to discuss this topic with the Committee on Economic Affairs, because there are two sides to the activities of pharmacies, as I have tried to explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U111	Yeah, we think it's necessary. We have already decided that we will have a joint session with the Committee on Economic Affairs and we will discuss the matter more widely. This year's extension will allow us to carry out studies and discuss the whole issue thoroughly by listening to all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U112	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I know that in most countries of the European Union, the establishment and operation of pharmacies are regulated in much more detail than any other retail business. In Estonia, the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have found that the restrictions on establishment are unconstitutional. Let us recognise that there is something stupid about the regulation of restrictions on establishment, such as the granting of the right of establishment by throwing lots. It is possible that hundreds or even thousands of companies will be set up to increase the likelihood, and the pharmacy can move from one shopping centre to another with 500 metres of jumps. As many as two thirds of the postman's readers feel that the restrictions on establishment could be completely abolished. What would happen if they disappeared completely?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U114	I'll go over it. We are talking right now about areas of low demand, or rural areas. We wish the pharmacies wouldn't disappear there, so they'd sell drugs. We know that the post offices and all the other institutions that have been so rural are gone. We don't want the pharmacies to disappear now, either. In the end, you have to go to the pharmacy and you don't know how far. Of course, it is also possible to order medicines online and for one euro they will be delivered to any corner of Estonia, but not all rural people will be able to order medicines online.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U115	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U116	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have repeatedly said that the solutions will be postponed for one year in order to make a proper law. And you have also said that in-depth research and analyses must be carried out, because there is no overview of how many pharmacists are needed, how large a public order should be, what should be a pharmacy network, where they should be located, etc. These things have not been done. Is there really no reliable analysis of the draft laws that we have been dealing with for so long and which have been debated in the Riigikogu? What was done in the Ministry of Social Affairs during this time? And on what basis is your optimism that, in one year, when there are two elections, a free summer and a change of government, we will resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U117	I believe that we will be able to solve this problem within a year. As for the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs, I am the wrong person to answer that question. I have not been Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U118	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U119	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'll come back to my question. In fact, I did not hear last week when you only gave one night to propose improvements, nor did I hear today why the restriction in settlements with more than 4 000 inhabitants will remain in force. How does that bring more country pharmacies? Secondly, I would like to remind you that studying to be a pharmacist lasts five years. In one year, no pharmacist can be trained, but a bachelor's degree is not enough; there is also a master's degree. How do you justify the claim that when three drugstores appeared in the city, the pharmacy disappeared in the country? Or how do they come to the country now? What's the justification for the extension? You keep explaining that the country doesn't come to the pharmacies, but you're imposing restrictions elsewhere, not on the country. There's no plus country in this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U120	You're asking for so long, my mind's starting to wander. We have written down some measures in the draft, such as a pharmacy bus and a starting grant for pharmacists. The law also applies to the purchase of medicines via the Internet Bank. However, these measures are not sufficient for pharmaceutical aid to be available on land, and we have had too little time to analyse and lay down all the measures. That is why the Committee on Social Affairs has discussed the amendment to impose a temporary restriction, which is also stated in today's draft law. I'm going to read you the Social Ministry's action plan again. Maybe I didn't make myself clear before. The Ministry of Social Affairs intends to order an analysis of certain options in connection with the further organisation of the pharmacy service and to examine their impact on ensuring access to medicines in rural areas. These options are as follows: Firstly, to develop a system of operating grants for rural pharmacies, either with support from the state budget or through the collection of a pharmacy licence fee or otherwise. Secondly, in areas with high demand, the obligation for pharmacists to ensure access to medicinal products in rural areas, i.e. the establishment of a general pharmacy or a structural unit thereof, either through the Agency at the request of a local authority or on the basis of a national minimum network, through a Chamber of Pharmacists or otherwise. All of this needs to be assessed and investigated. In order to increase the role of pharmacists and pharmacists, the Ministry of Social Affairs' action plan provides for discussions on the establishment of a Chamber of Pharmacists and the possibility of delegating tasks to the Chamber in the organisation of pharmacy services and the analysis of the implementation of the ownership of pharmacists. It is planned to commission an appropriate analysis and forecast to assess the labour needs of the various organisational models of the pharmacy service and to submit a training order. Activities aimed at agreeing on the services to be provided by pharmacists and pharmacists at the pharmacy, the requirements for the provision of these services, as well as the planning of training and funding will also continue. All of this we want to evaluate, order an impact analysis and therefore start drafting a draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U121	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In the countries of the European Union, the activities of pharmacies are quite detailed, and this detailed regulation means, among other things, imposing restrictions on their activities. Those restrictions have been dealt with everywhere. What should we in Estonia do differently in a procedural way to eliminate all the corruption charges that come with any restrictions and limits? In fact, these limits and limitations can be completely different directions, interacting.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U123	Thank you for your question. In the original version of the bill, there was a restriction that pharmacists could be the owners of a pharmacy. Speaking about the European Union in general, Finland, for example, is where only a pharmacist can be the owner of a pharmacy, and the entire pharmaceutical market is regulated accordingly. We in the Commission did not support this proposal and it did not stay in. Here, too, a lot depends on the specific culture of how a pharmacy has historically developed in one country or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U124	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U125	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, This amendment to the law was caused by a contradiction with the Constitution. You've changed the law quite a bit now. Have you also consulted with the Chancellor of Justice's office on whether he and his offices will be satisfied with these legislative changes? Does he agree with anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U126	We haven't consulted the Chancellor of Justice's office lately. But he has been involved in the work of our committee at the time of the draft, he has been in agreement with all the paragraphs and has given them his positive assessment. Here's a little bit of an explanation for Geomedia's study. Geomedia's study has shown that pharmacies with a turnover of less than EUR 150000 per year should be considered unsustainable. According to the survey, maintenance costs for such pharmacies amounted to an average of EUR 4517 per year. Why am I saying this? We discussed specifically how much support could be given to land pharmacies. Many of these land pharmacies, with a turnover of less than EUR 150000 per year, actually need support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U127	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U128	Thank you. You are proposing to re-establish an unconstitutional restriction on establishment, which the Supreme Court has declared invalid. And you justify this in particular by the fact that if there are no restrictions, labour costs will increase and the keeping of the pharmacy will become more loss-making. It is, of course, an interesting concept that you are unequivocally fighting against the rise in people's wages. Do you intend to take measures of this kind in other areas to combat wage increases by means of restrictions on establishment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U129	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U130	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U131	Thank you. In fact, the geographical constraints against which the Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court have been opposed will disappear from 9 June. But what I want to say is that we already have quite a regulated area in Estonia; it is not a so-called 'free enterprise'. For example, the state has set a percentage mark-up range for pharmacies, higher education is required from pharmacists, and of course they have to offer the cheapest medicine to the buyer based on the active substance. Pharmacies also need to take back old medicines. Now that the pharmacists become health professionals, how much in the future does the state foresee to keep the land pharmacies on the water? And what do you think's gonna come out of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U132	This is again an issue of impact analysis. We must certainly assess these effects. We have also discussed in the Commission that, if pharmacies are to provide health services, what services could be provided for the money of the Health Insurance Fund, whether at all, and which services would be made an obligation for pharmacies and what they could provide on a voluntary basis. For example, we have thought that vaccination could be a health service provided by the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U133	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U134	Thank you. Dear waitress, We have dealt with this bill here in the Riigikogu for a very long time. The Chancellor of Justice has dealt with the matter, the Supreme Court has dealt with it. But we have not found a reasonable solution and, as you said, a number of analyses and studies are still needed to find some sort of constitutional solution. Perhaps it will be easier to change the constitution then.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U135	What was the question? It's like there was no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U136	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! If, with this legislative amendment, the pharmacists receive the right to provide medical services, it will definitely be financed by the Health Insurance Fund. You also used the word 'obligation'. If an obligation is imposed, the State must certainly compensate for it to some extent. Does the money that is sent to pharmacies come at the expense of family doctors or at the expense of someone else? Whose account is this coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U138	You're probably talking about health care. We have not discussed this in the Commission, and today it is very difficult for me to answer this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U139	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U140	Dear waitress, I like the logic that restrictions must be imposed on the development of a network of land pharmacies. Have you discussed the most effective way to ban pharmacies in cities so that pharmacies can develop in the countryside?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U141	Haven't discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U142	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 615. Three amendments have been received, all tabled by the lead committee: the first, the second and the third. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U143	Let us move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the debate on the National Waste Plan 2014-2020. Rapporteurs are Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister for the Environment, and Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. Before we go to the proceedings, let me briefly present the procedure for the debate. First, the presentation of the author of the action plan is up to 20 minutes, then the presentation of the lead committee is up to 20 minutes, followed by questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Then there are negotiations where all members of the Riigikogu can speak. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. It is a great honour to ask the Minister of Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, It has to be said that in such a respectable way, in the large Chamber of Parliament's House, the waste management plan has not been discussed in Estonia before. I thank you for this opportunity, and I believe that the debate will be a matter of every concern. A discussion on how to move towards a society where material that has already been produced is viewed in a sustainable way and where material that has become useless for some reason is not piled up in piles or garbage dumps in Estonia, but more and more opportunities are found to use it after processing, our society has been going on for some time. After all, if nature could deliver its own things, then we would have no problem with garbage at all. Nature's garbage just doesn't come over it or lie around it, it's all in circulation in nature. Unfortunately, the picture of human activity is not so beautiful yet. Although the skills to recycle everything produced are getting better and better, we still have a lot of room for improvement. However, the principle that the material left over in the production or day-to-day delivery of someone is a valuable raw material for someone else is increasingly obvious in the developed world, and the waste management plan before you is trying to develop Estonian society in the same direction. As you can see from the figures, the waste collection in Estonia is massive, to say the least. Of course, it is important to know that the lion's share of waste does not occur in everyday activities, in everyday households. In particular, the oil shale industry makes the amount of waste so high in Estonia. The oil shale sector accounts for more than 80% of all waste generated in Estonia. Domestic waste was generated in Estonia in 2011 at 420000 tonnes, and in 2012 the figure was even lower. By comparison, in 2000, when we developed mixed municipal waste per capita in the order of 400 kilos, by 2011, this figure was more than twice as much, less than 200 kilos per year. In anticipation, it can be said that in Estonia the separate collection of packaging has been relatively well carried out, but unfortunately it is still quite common that about a third of the contents of packaging containers are not supposed to reach it. You will be asked from time to time what can be done with garbage collected by species and why it is needed. I have given some examples here that may help to clarify. For example, when we talk about recycling one tonne of paper, it leaves a million trees growing, but it also saves about 20,000 litres of water. By comparison, an Estonian resident consumes an average of 100 litres of water a day. One ton of recycled plastic is such that the energy consumption is reduced by 80 to 90% compared to the production of oil or natural gas. One tonne of steel recycled saves 1.1 tonnes of enriched iron ore and CO2 emissions are nearly 60% lower. The need for natural resources is reduced by 90% and water pollution by 76%. There has been a lot of talk about plastic recycling. One plastic bottle saves the same energy when recycled, with which one 600-watt filament lamp burns for six hours. Five plastic bottles can be made into one sports shirt, and if you receive a total of 111 plastic bottles, the chair in this picture can be made from 111 plastic bottles. In the European Union, CO2 emissions are being reduced very seriously. These emissions will decrease by a few per cent as a result of quite large investments. It is therefore worth pointing out that if plastic placed in landfills in the European Union could be recycled, CO2 emissions in the European Union would fall by 7%. The waste plan before you confirms once again that Estonia, as in other countries of the European Union, is guided by the so-called hierarchy of waste management when planning waste. According to this, the most sensible and also economically wise way to act is to avoid waste generation. Simply put, it means designing and manufacturing the product in such a way that there is nothing left to exploit it, all parts of the product can be recycled either as a result of reuse or later as a result of simple reprocessing. In Estonia, it is certainly important that we lose the link between economic growth and the growth of general waste production ♪ so that waste does not increase at the same rate as the growth of the economy. The introduction of new technologies that would allow material that has previously been treated simply as waste to be treated as a by-product will certainly contribute to reducing waste generation. New technologies would then be able to direct the production process in such a way that, alongside the basic product, other materials are produced that do not require separate treatment for deployment and demand in society. At higher levels of the waste hierarchy, there is still preparation for reuse, such as the reuse of glass containers, and at the third stage recycling is already briefly mentioned. The last two or the lowest steps in the waste hierarchy are to dispose of the material by incineration or landfilling. When it comes to the waste hierarchy, it has to be said that if we are planning any other policy that relates to this area, all these other policies must follow this hierarchy and certainly support it. Now a brief look back on how we've been going so far. Overall, developments in the area of handling have been very rapid. In 2000, there were 157 landfills in Estonia, so far six of them have remained, and they also meet the requirements of timeliness. The recovery of closed landfills will take place in some places until 2016. There are over 70 waste plants in Estonia. These are places where people can take garbage that doesn't fit in the container. Regarding the waste plant network, it is, of course, denser in and around Tallinn. In Järvamaa, Raplamaa, Lääne-Virumaa and Põlva County, the network of waste plants is quite good. Recently, networks for collecting packaging waste, as well as WEEE, waste vehicles and hazardous waste have grown. On the positive side, I can also point out the change that 95% of the population have joined the organised waste shipment system. There was a brief discussion of closed landfills. One example is the Uikala landfill, which in the past has often caused problems for local residents. After investments, things are much better in Uikala. The increase in environmental charges for environmental charges, especially for storage, in recent years has given a very clear signal that storage is something we do not want to see in Estonia in the future. We've lost quite a bit of storage. I can't say there's no deposit at all, but we pile up a very small amount of garbage. We have had a pretty good increase in the percentage of municipal waste recovery: in 2012, the rate of recovery in Estonia was 50%. As far as the oil shale sector is concerned, I have already said that the oil shale industry still accounts for about 80% of all waste generation. At the same time, the re-use of herbage, especially as a recultivation of careers, but also as a rubble, has increased considerably in the last year. There was a bit of talk about the figures that describe the generation of waste. Here is also an illustration of how waste generation has changed in time. And if the generation of municipal waste has really shrunk, then, as you can see, the column of collection does not want us to get any lower, rather the trend has been the opposite in recent years. The most important tasks for the next seven years are certainly related to recycling rather than the disposal of material. For the time being, in public finances, thriving editing is something completely elementary. Sustainable handling of natural resources or material already produced must become just as elementary. In the coming years, every effort must be made to ensure that collection by species is as convenient as possible. Only then will people be ready to deal with it. Thus, creating more collection points is one of the most important activities. Similarly, cooperation between municipalities is necessary. When we are talking, for example, about waste plants, it is not necessarily necessary that every municipality, every small municipality, set up its own waste plant. It is possible and also reasonable to cooperate here. In the case of municipal waste, as has been said, recycling is a major concern. In recent weeks, it has been said in the public that Estonia has a number of obligations related to the year 2020. This slide has some of them pointed out red before you. As you can see, recycling municipal waste is a problem that we will have most acutely on the table over the next few years. In 2011, 27% of municipal waste went into circulation, which means that, in essence, in five years, this figure will have to double, so that we can reach 50%, as we have an obligation as a country. On the packaging side, the situation is much better, and the aim of recycling and recycling of packaging is already being met. The situation here has been one that can be satisfied with in recent years. How can we cope with all these challenges? That is why the waste management plan has been put together. I have already heard that it has been asked why the waste management plan does not include very specific proposed legislative changes when they need to be done. The aim of the waste management plan is still to provide a broader framework from which all possible legislative changes can take place. In the waste management plan, we have avoided setting very many objectives. Instead, we have identified three key objectives: waste prevention, recycling and reduction of environmental risk, including through improved monitoring and monitoring. These are the three main objectives that we have set. The cost of implementing the waste management plan is also set out in the plan. Until 2020, it will take EUR 64 million, with investments of just over EUR 44 million for the first four years. Of course, the European Union's Structural Funds, in particular, will ensure that we have the opportunity to invest where we need to. The most important objective is the prevention of waste. The maximum take-up of all material in the present society is still a modern product development of the designer, which has been thought out to the last detail. In this picture, one of Estonia's success stories is the creation of fashion designer Reet Ausi. He exploits the totally high-quality fabric residues of one of the largest textile manufacturers in the world. By the way, this year's Song Festival shirts have been made just like that. They are entirely of high quality fabric that would otherwise have traveled to a dump or to an oven. By finding a way to exploit the fabric in this way, we have spent 91% less water and released 86% less CO2 into the air than would have been done if a new fabric had been produced specifically for this purpose. So waste prevention isn't something that's a little dirty for a long time. This means much more modern activity, especially much more modern product development. For the next seven years, we will be ready to support investments by companies, but also by municipalities, for example, to create re-use centres. However, with consumer awareness, we still have things that could be much better. Another important objective is recycling. As has been said, it requires comfortable and well-functioning species-by-species collection and sorting and a relevant network. The development of a network designed to collect waste separately is the key that will require investment in the next six and a half years. We are ready to direct just over EUR 20 million. As far as hazardous waste is concerned, the aim in this area is to end the repetition of landfills which do not comply with environmental requirements and certainly to ensure more effective control. The handling of residual pollution and discarded hazardous waste is, on the one hand, very costly and often the company itself cannot pay for the disposal of residual waste found. We also have such support under the waste management plan. Where will we be by 2020, when the end of the waste management period before you will have come? In particular, separate collection and recycling are two things that could be completely self-evident by then. Of course, by 2020, all our landfills and the environmental risks associated with waste will have to be grounded, which means that the waste sector will no longer have a negative impact on human health. There is still a great deal of time until 2050, and who knows exactly what trends all of us will be doing by 2050, which technologies have been developed, which technologies we can use more, etc., but in 2050, Estonia could certainly be one of those countries where the material can be used in such a way that nothing goes to waste, because everything can be re-used in a reasonable way. This is the waste management plan before you. I would also ask you to present this in the regions where you have been elected, because there is certainly a great role to be played by local authorities in the waste management. Without local authorities and without helping society as a whole, the objectives that we have set cannot be met. But we're going to meet our goals, so we're really looking forward to your involvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U145	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U146	Thank you. Madam Minister! Environmental problems have no boundaries. Why am I talking about this? We went to Pihkva last September to see what was going on in Petseri County and Pihkva Oblast. I've also seen what's going on in the Leningrad district. If they're sick, we're sick. I have been thinking about how the national waste management plan provides an opportunity to organise this cooperation over a period of five or six years. Things are moving very slowly there, and if we don't deal with it, it will affect our water resources, as well as our air.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U147	We've been working on it, we've been doing it for years. But it is fair to say that we cannot go beyond the eastern border to organise the waste management of the eastern neighbour or actually demand investment from companies operating in their territory. These claims can and will be made by Russia's own authorities. We can do what we have done: we can ask and demand at international meetings every time, but real action can still take place east of the border. It is, of course, in our interest that these investments are made, and it is also in our interest that there is international access to environmental data. We should be able to check from adequate sources how and if, for example, waste water systems have started to work, whether water conditions are actually improving. That is what we are calling for, and in this respect we do not intend to make any concessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U148	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U149	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. As you said in your report, the network of waste plants is very well built. In Põlva County, for example, they exist in every area. It's a good thing we didn't get any money for regional garbage disposal, otherwise we'd be in trouble with this accident, so there won't be enough stuff left. But the question is, we do have proud waste plants, but people can't transfer waste there because it's very expensive. They'd rather throw it under the forest or lie around buildings somewhere. For example, it is relatively costly to give away the Eternite. How can it be made cheaper for its inhabitants? Could KIC support certain actions to accept the old Eternite? Otherwise, people in their poverty will not be able to hand over these lying records to the right place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U150	The municipalities of KIK have requested support for the collection of eternite and this has also been supported. Here, it is probably necessary to ask the municipality in particular why such a request has not been made. In the current KIC grant round, there are quite a few requests for Eternite recovery support, if I recall correctly. This opportunity is entirely there. You say it is very expensive to give away waste to waste plants. This comes as an unpleasant surprise, because the municipalities have generally assured us that they will receive waste from the waste plants free of charge. Investment in waste plants is also money from the KIC and, as a rule, they will have a duty to receive waste from the population, precisely free of charge. It's gotta be checked if it's really expensive somewhere. One of the concerns of waste plants has been that some municipalities have clearly overstimulated their waste plant. For what reason has come and been asked for such large investments, which will have problems later in the running of the plant, this must be asked very seriously by such a municipality. It would also be possible to serve people very well in a much smaller waste plant, there would not have been a need to overdimension so much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U151	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this excellent presentation and message. It is really our common concern that waste management must be taken forward. My question concerns the waste hierarchy in the European Union, the relevant activities and the relevant ratios. What do you think Estonia looks like in the European Union as a whole, whether with oil shale or without oil shale?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U153	In view of the amount of waste generated by households, we look pretty good from this point of view. The people of Estonia are generally thrifty and are also looking for recycling opportunities in their daily editing. The problem is that people who are environmentally well-conscious in themselves and are ready to collect and sort waste by type do not always do so, and precisely because sorting and separate collection are not very convenient. I looked into it in the Committee on the Environment, but maybe it's worth asking you here. Based on your own experience, think about the most convenient way to give away waste paper, glass and packaging that is closest to your home. I am not talking about the packages covered by the pledge or the packages covered by the deposit, but about the other packages. People often don't know these places, unfortunately. Or, for example, we are talking about biodegradable waste. Where can you take them? Do you even have that chance? We have room for improvement in order to create a more comfortable system, yes and yes. And when you look at the recycling bill, as I said, we are now about halfway to where we have to go by 2020. But this is not just Estonia's concern. In a similar situation, there are a number of other countries in the European Union who also think very seriously about how to motivate people first to sort and ultimately recycle garbage at home. The resource that is hidden there is, in economic terms, very, very large in itself. We don't have much reason to shake ashes on our heads. Estonians are very good, especially in the everyday household.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U154	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The press has argued that the waste incineration plant Irus has had a very demotivative effect on the collection of waste by type. What do you see as the impact of Iru's waste incineration plant on the separate collection and recycling of waste?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U156	The impact on re-use has been very positive, as the use of waste for energy generation is part of recovery. However, this will not have a positive effect on recycling, as the waste burning will still result in the disposal of the material that will be injected into the boiler. Indeed, very often when you talk to people, you hear an emotional question as to why I should collect garbage by type, why should I bother with sorting into different containers when, ultimately, everything goes into the same oven anyway? This attitude is a problem, especially in everyday life from the point of view of collection and sorting by species. We do not yet have the final data for 2013, so I cannot seriously say whether recycling last year, when Iru became a waste incineration plant, increased or decreased. The preliminary data, I emphasise, are very original, say that it is rather slightly twofold. But this data needs to be verified, and that is what is happening right now. Generally, the incineration of garbage for recycling, yes, certainly will not have a positive effect. However, as we have seen from the waste hierarchy, the burning of waste is more sensible than landfilling. In this comparison, waste burning must certainly be preferred. However, compared to the recycling of the material, incineration of waste is not the preferred practice. Above all, however, our concern is how we can get as much of this useful material as possible when we dispose of it from circulation. Everything that remains, everything that really cannot be recycled, can go into a burn to use it to produce energy. This border isn't exactly in place right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U157	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U158	Thank you, Minister, for a good presentation and a thorough review. It is a pity that the members of the Riigikogu show so little interest in this subject, which we will have a relatively high point of pain in the future and require a very large resource from the state. But I'm gonna ask you about a couple of slides. One slide was about a network of local governments created by 'We made it.' And the second slide was the Call for Proposals, which set out the objective of enhancing the networking of municipalities. Why don't you introduce these two slides?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U159	The network of municipalities in certain areas works quite well. For example, the municipalities of Harjumaa work quite well together, and Järvamaa's do exactly the same. However, it does not work like this everywhere in Estonia. As I said in pointing out the second slide you mentioned, for example, for waste plants, cooperation between municipalities could be much more effective and practical. Indeed, every small municipality does not have to set up a waste plant itself. Why make a very large investment if there are problems with keeping this station running? There are examples that, given that cooperation between municipalities will certainly be better in the future. As always in Estonia, there are regions where some things work very well, and there are areas where some things can work better. This is also the case with cooperation between municipalities. Not all municipalities that could cooperate do so, but if they see positive examples, they will be encouraged. By the way, I do not agree with the statement in the introduction to this question. In my opinion, the interest of the members of the Riigikogu has been very active. The Commission's debate was also very topical. I am very pleased that this debate is taking place in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U160	Good fellows, because of our law, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to take this activity down a little bit. I repeat that each member of the Riigikogu may put an oral question to each of the rapporteurs within this item. So one question for the minister and one question for the chairman of the committee. Let's move on. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U161	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We know that the amount of waste in Estonia per capita is one of the largest in Europe, and we also know what the reason for this is the oil shale resource used. It is good that we have put a great deal of emphasis on switching to renewable energy. But all your report did not mention the hazardous waste generated by one sector, namely the military sector. What is the focus of this waste management plan on the contribution of the military sector? How many of these waste are generated in Estonia? Perhaps you also have data on the rest of the world because, in fact, in this sector, there is an enormous amount of waste, hazardous substances, waste that remains to pollute the environment. What is the management of waste, including hazardous substances, in this sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U162	I owe you an answer right now. I should like to clarify whether we have separate accounts for the military sector in terms of waste generation. I believe that the problematic military waste we are still wrestling with still dates back decades. The current management of waste is also correct in our military sector; it certainly does not involve major problems. But the residual pollution still to be detected is often linked to the areas at the disposal of the Soviet army. And, of course, our landscape is still ravaged by military buildings of their own time. They do not decorate our Estonia. They're what we do, we've got money to clean up the landscape through the Environmental Investment Center. These are often purely visual pollution, but there are plenty of examples where groundwater may also be at risk. Well, that's what we're avoiding. But, as has been said, most of these problems come from decades ago, not from modern times.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U163	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns the Estonian Pandipakend, whose work was subject to justified criticism a few years ago, but now it can be said that they are doing quite well in their work. The question is about their super-data base, which contains the data of 185 manufacturers and importers. How is the security of these data ensured so that the so-called large owners of this producer responsibility organisation, A.Le Coq, Saku, Coca-Cola and who they were, could not abuse the data contained therein? After all, there every month all companies provide precise information on how much they have sold. Has it been dealt with? When we discussed the VAT law here, it was a very serious issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U165	If there are any complaints, they should be presented in a very specific way. In itself, reporting must be precise, and we have been rather struggling with the fact that we have not always been able to be sure that the quantity of packages brought to land is declared precisely. The information to be provided must certainly be correct. Otherwise, the whole system will be vulnerable and the remuneration received by the State will be hit. So if there are specific complaints that someone has abused this system in any way, I have to say that I have not received such signals, then they should be presented in this form. Then we can discuss whether there is any need to change data collection and reporting. But reporting has to be accurate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U166	Maimu Berg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U167	Madam Minister! It was a great pleasure to hear that you highly appreciate our people's awareness of sorting garbage. If that's the case, it's really nice. Mr. Randver has already asked about taking the garbage to the woods, but a lot is being used to just burn the garbage in his own yard. How can we view it, and how can we prevent it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U168	Thank you. This is an exceptionally timely question. Spring cleaning is in progress all over the country. There is an internet address at www.lõke.ee, where you can find an overview of the awareness campaign that started yesterday, which draws people's attention to the health risks associated with the burning of waste somewhere in the garden corner. In the case of combustion, the principle is that everything that goes up comes down at one point. When materials impregnated with chemicals are burned in a fire, it should be taken into account that sooner or later either they breathe in or they fall on berry bushes, apple trees, strawberries and eat in. Raising awareness of this is something we are dealing with quite seriously this year. This is one of the campaigns specifically linked to the incineration of waste. The obligation to enter into a garbage disposal contract is likely to have reduced burning in the courtyard, but yes, we still have complaints that a neighbor is burning something that is causing a heavy black smoke. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U169	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U170	Minister, thank you very much. The keyword for my question is 'impact analysis'. Have you studied how much more work needs to be done every night by one Estonian family to sort the garbage and later to transport it? Is that five seconds, 30 seconds, one minute or five minutes? And have you multiplied this number by 365 and compared it, and all of a sudden burning isn't more useful? Do you have that math problem? Estonian people have to sort garbage every night. Have you looked into it, suddenly it can be used more usefully, and maybe it has a negative effect on the disease?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U171	I have to start by specifying. You said that we must recover 50% of the waste. We have already met this objective, with which we have no problem. We have a problem recycling material. In other words, the aim is that the material produced by the procedure, either by re-use or after little processing, will not be withdrawn from circulation, but will still remain in use in one way or another. Above all, the positive impact that people have on sorting waste is precisely about economic savings. I mentioned in this presentation some data on how much water is saved and CO2 emissions are reduced. All of this is related to costs and this impact is very significant. Before I praised the environmental awareness of the Estonian people. I really think that home sorting and helping with recycling in this way is something that is not taken as such a tedious commitment, but is self-evident for many. This is self-evident at present in a number of countries north of us and I do not think that an Estonian person is less environmentally conscious or less caring. I am convinced that sorting must be made more convenient on the one hand, but on the other hand we must, in any case, get to the point that when a person is sorting garbage at home and helping to recycle the material in this way, his garbage bill is significantly lower than that of a person who does not care about the environment and who piles up all the waste generated at home or throws it into one of the bins. It must also be cost-effective from an economic point of view to lower costs for a more environmentally conscious person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U172	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Now it is my great honour to ask for a chair of speech by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U173	Honourable Vice President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to present to you the debate on the National Waste Plan 2014-2020 and on the Committee on the Environment. To begin with, the Government of the Republic presented this plan to the Riigikogu for discussion this year on 17 April and the Chairman of the Riigikogu appointed the Environment Commission as the leading committee for this review. The National Waste Plan 2014-2020 is a development document covering the whole waste sector, which will present the principles and measures for the development of the sector for the next seven years. Like the Minister, as Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, I am very pleased to note that such a plan is being discussed at such a high level. This has not been dealt with in Parliament before. In itself, however, the current waste management plan is the third in the order of 2002 was the first, 2008 was the second, and now it is the third until 2020. The four main principles that have been followed in the preparation of the waste management plan are the respect of the waste management hierarchy; the polluter pays principle; the wider responsibility of the producer and the principle of independence and proximity. For people, trash is something that tends to smell and that they want to get rid of as soon as possible. But if there are already large quantities of waste, it will become a resource that can be recycled as raw materials as well as incinerated or made of fuel. Of course, from an environmental point of view, this is also emphasised by the waste management plan, the main objective is either to prevent waste at all or at least to reduce it. Only the second objective is to prepare as much waste as possible for reuse, recycling and recovery, thereby reducing the environmental risk of waste. The use of waste must certainly give preference to recycling. In order to do this, it is important to develop an optimal waste collection and management network. The most complex challenges in the coming period will be to increase the recycling of municipal waste from the current 27% to 50% by 2020. The cost of implementing the waste management plan has been estimated at EUR 64 million over the period 2014 to 2020. For the first four years, a total of EUR 44.1 million is expected to be spent on all measures under the implementation plan. The Environment Committee has discussed the waste management plan twice: for the first time in January this year and for the second time in May. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we can also discuss this document together in this large Chamber. Despite the fact that the Commission has also repeatedly pointed out that the waste management plan is not intended to provide detailed solutions but to provide clear guidelines for the future, the Commission has opened up the major problems on its own. I will give some examples of the issues that were discussed in the Commission. First, the large share of glass containers in municipal waste was raised as a problem. This is where glass containers come in, which are not part of the pawn packaging system, such as jam jars and ketchup bottles and wine bottles. The reason, on the one hand, is that the containers that accept the pawns are very complex in construction and cannot accept cans of any shape. At the same time, it was jointly concluded that the package collection network should be further developed and the number of containers increased. One important topic that the Commission considered in January and May was the incineration of waste, which the Minister also spoke about in his presentation and in his answers to questions. The burning of waste and the making of fuel from it are, of course, more reasonable than putting them in a dump. However, with regard to the environment and the economy, it would be necessary for plastic, paper, cardboard and metal to be recycled again. Only the part of waste, estimated at 30 to 40%, which cannot be technologically recycled or reasonably recycled, could be burned. Recovery is three to five times more beneficial in an energy and economic way than incinerating waste in an oven or producing fuel from it. As the incineration of municipal waste is recycling rather than recycling, the question is how Estonia can meet the recycling target set. There were five major obstacles to the Commission. For example, there is no financial savings, as well as space-intensive and cumbersome activities. There are few packaging containers and people's awareness could be higher. Myth plays its part that I, as a citizen, can collect waste separately, but in the end, everything gets poured together. And fifthly, there is no economic interest in thinking and acting environmentally friendly. The conclusion is, as stated in the waste management plan, that the most important thing is to change people's attitudes, i.e. to get rid of such typical metaphors, that there is no point in collecting by species, anyway by the end of the day everything will go together in the oven. This is why the waste management plan emphasises that recycling is a key issue. It also states quite precisely how to motivate residents to sort more locally and grow recycling through it. As I have already said, it was pointed out in the Commission that people do not see the point of sorting when everything finally goes to one place and there is no difference in financial terms either. Why sort it if, due to a mandatory municipal waste shipment contract, it is absolutely necessary to fill the waste bin by the end of the month. One Member of the Commission said that some of the stuff you've sorted can really give away for free, but you can throw it all in one container in an apartment building, perhaps paying just six euros more. It's so convenient for a human being, and he doesn't want to work harder. He'd rather pay the euro more than run around town with bags. There can only be one solution: if you don't sort, you'll have a garbage truck more often and you'll pay more. When you sort, you take the collected waste into different containers by type, you pay less, and the car, for example, goes once every three months, which means clear savings. In this way, a more general reform of waste management is included in the list of important activities in the waste management plan. The framework scheme for environmental charges must take into account the hierarchy of waste management directly when deciding on remuneration and taxation. Households and companies that carry out the sorting correctly must receive the waste shipment service much cheaper than those who do not bother or do not do so for any other reason. One of the main issues discussed by the Committee on the Environment was how the municipal waste plans are compatible with the countrywide. When we look at municipal waste management plans, we see great differences between them. The question arose as to whether the Ministry and the Riigikogu should try to harmonise this picture. It is concluded that it is undoubtedly appropriate to revise the regulations on the obligations laid down in the waste management rules of local authorities. It was discussed whether these were detailed enough. It was concluded that there was still room for improvement, that small municipalities were relatively liberal and that volunteering would be allowed. A specific example of the municipality was also provided, which first looked at the size of their largest apartment building. It was 25 apartments and it was established that separate packaging containers should only be in houses with at least 26 apartments. Finally, the Commission considered that, although a great deal of work has been done, whether a consensual approach has been reached at all points with stakeholders or whether there is disagreement in the debate on the waste management plan. One of the main problems is the concern of local governments that money is scarce. There is no solution to this waste management plan. However, the framework plan proposes a scheme based on a greater motivation for people to sort and collect waste by type, while local authorities would also benefit from the separate collection of residents. The Committee on the Environment is quite certain that the situation in local governments over the years will not be repeated. When the waste was less wasted, it was very positive from an environmental point of view, while for municipalities it meant that they received less money in the budget. In short, the municipality was actually interested in landfilling the waste. In summary, this waste management plan is based on two golden rules for waste management. First of all, whoever pollutes will pay. And two, if you don't take your head, you have to take your wallet. Only in view of these rules can we talk about a cleaner environment and a more sustainable Estonia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U174	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your presentation, as did the Minister, you stressed the need to respect the hierarchy of waste management. I've read a number of articles. At present, I have one very simple article about Wikipedia, which states that these boundaries between the hierarchy are not rigid. For example, waste management may deviate from the hierarchy if it ensures the best overall environmental outcome for the whole life cycle concerned. And here's my question: can it be justified to recycle waste instead of recycling waste, for example, as an energy source at the Iru waste incineration plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U176	First of all, it is only in nature that 100% of waste can never be recycled. For any municipal waste, it is estimated that 30 to 40% are those whose sole potential recovery is incineration. However, as a whole, when deciding on the management of waste, it is always necessary to take into account the location of the waste, its generation. It is perfectly understandable that the cost of transport must be reasonable. And in certain cases, collecting waste by type is less useful, for example, when much money is later spent on transporting them. The hierarchy of waste management must, of course, be taken as a framework scheme; it is certainly reasonable to take into account certain differences. I will, for example, bring about a regime for the transport of municipal waste, which requires all households to fill their containers within one month. In the Riigikogu, a draft law is under discussion, which suggests that in certain cases, for example, if a citizen is very aware of environmental issues, if he makes compost and sorts all waste, it would be reasonable for the municipality to make exceptions in his case. A garbage truck could then not once a month, as provided for by the current law, but once every three months, which would mean huge savings for a good citizen. It is therefore clear that certain differences are reasonable. The aim of recycling 100% of waste cannot be realised. 30 to 40% of municipal waste is purely economically wise to drive and burn the furnace to get warm.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U177	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U178	Thank you. Honourable waitress! One point in the waste management plan is consumer training. We all need to know how to avoid large amounts of waste. Yet every year we have participated in a campaign like 'Let's do it! '. I've never read anything about the amount of garbage collected from this campaign over the years, but it's certainly remarkable. And the situation doesn't improve, time and again, they find places where the garbage has been transported. Was it said in the Commission that the money available could be allocated more to raising people's awareness? The person who consumes all this plastic can then sort it properly. The money could also be spent on training.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U179	Of course, the Committee on the Environment also discussed how to train and inform Estonian people as best as possible about the importance of sorting waste and why it is harmful to burn debris in your yard. The local governments, the daily partners of the residents, can certainly do a great job. At the same time, several national programmes have been launched to allocate funds to municipalities to carry out this work. As for 'Let's do it! ' to the campaign, you may say that every year there is a reason, as you, Mr Luigas, said, to repeat it. But it is clear that in the past decades, this work has not been done, and also that the picture is getting better every year. Personally, I am convinced that these tens of thousands of people who have participated at least once in 'Let's do it! ' in the campaign and collected the garbage left behind by others, not pouring garbage into the forest itself tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, or even throwing a bottle into a ditch. 'Let's do it! 'The program has two very important benefits. One is what we see every day, that the forest floors, bogs and bogs of Estonia are getting cleaner, and the other is the same educational and educational side that you asked about. Once a man has worked hard to keep our forests clean, he will continue to make sure that our entire surroundings are clean.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U180	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U181	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! In the Committee on the Environment, the use of waste fuel, the so-called RDF, as energy source in various companies, has been discussed a few times at the Iru waste plant. To be precise, RDF is a waste fuel made from mixed municipal waste and mostly incinerated in cement plants. We are talking about the hierarchy of waste management. Certainly in the future, the acquisition of waste for incineration is increasingly problematic due to growing economic interest, also because we have set targets for recycling numbers before our eyes. What solution do you support more, the use of waste at the Iru waste plant or as RDF elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U182	As I have said many times, there is virtually no difference between incineration and fueling waste. It doesn't matter whether we run the garbage, or municipal waste, into the Irus oven or pre-fuel it and drive it to the furnace in Kunda Nordic Cement. In the present case, neither undertaking should necessarily be preferred. In waste management, we can score a schoolboy's three plus, or satisfactory, for both combustion and waste fuel. But I believe that the Republic of Estonia could and must strive for a solution for which the score is five, and this is recycling of waste. Once again, there is an obvious problem that we also have to solve in the Committee on the Environment, the import of waste, the import of waste into Estonia. As you said, on the one hand, we are working to ensure that municipal waste is sorted in Estonia. This means that both fuel and combustion are decreasing. On the other hand, we have the considerable capacity to process them through major investments. So there is still pressure to move from England, Finland and Ireland to trash in Estonia. The Committee on the Environment must sit down and, based on public opinion, come up with a solution to what we will do in the future with imported waste, 25% of which will be disposed of in the form of ash, but still in the Estonian landfills. Each of the four ships is actually tilted to the surface of Mary's land.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U183	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U184	Thank you. I would like to say, as a mid-term remark, that although we are talking about imports here, it is still an export of the service. But here's my question. I was gonna ask the Environment Minister, but I'm gonna ask you. As Chairman of the Environment Committee, can you assure 185 drinks producers and importers that the detailed reports they submit each month to the Estonian Pandipakend are secured that they are not accessible to the members of the Board of the Estonian Pandipakend and those close to them, that there is no unfair competition and that these data are not abused?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U185	I sincerely hope so. However, in order to give a specific answer, I will answer you in writing. Right now, I don't know who specifically has access to the data. But I hope that all the doubts raised in this Chamber are only doubts, and they have nothing to do with real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U186	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U187	Dear waitress, I heard you mention imports. I disagree with you: we do not import garbage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U188	If that was a question, I'm gonna stick to the fact that it's a garbage import. If we look at it from an environmental point of view, what ultimately comes out of the chimney will comply with the Eurostandards, but it will remain in Estonia. One in four containers of garbage is stored as ash in Estonia. From an environmental point of view, burning foreign waste in Estonia is not useful, at least if it is carried out in the way that is currently being done in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-20_U189	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Rainer Vakra! Now it's possible to make a speech. Is there a negotiation request? There's no call. The debate on the last item is therefore closed. The Riigikogu does not adopt a decision on this matter. Thank you very much to all the performers. Our agenda is exhausted. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.19 p.m.
