ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the ninth Thursday session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, good work shadows! The faction of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union passes the draft amendment to § 10 of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act. The Pre-school Children's Institution Act provides, since 1993, that every local authority...... must provide a place in kindergarten for each child from the age of one and a half, if his or her parents so wish, essentially on the next working day. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, Estonia's laws differ from the respective laws of the European Union countries in that we have not said as legislators exactly what will happen if the local government fails to comply with this obligation. Recently, there was a reading in this Chamber and the President announced an amendment to § 10 of the same Act, according to which the local government has the right to offer a childcare place instead of a kindergarten place. However, this did not become an obligation either. Parents are still facing the problem, because at the end of the parental benefit, the local authority may not offer a place for the child and the family does not know what happens next. We offer a very simple solution to this problem. If the local government has not provided the child with a child's near-home day-care or day-care, he or she is obliged to pay the parental benefit at three months' notice. The benefit must be paid in the same amount as previously granted by the State and up to the time when the day-care centre or childcare place is provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U3	I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Commercial Code. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on Business Support and Credit Guarantee. In the Riigikogu, Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Council Election Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Waste Act. Sixth, as well as the draft law amending the Waste Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Mati Raidma, Minister of the Environment, when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U5	Good fellows! There's no more calls. I have adopted seven drafts on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further proceedings. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U6	Let us begin the procedure for today's items on the agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the flag law and ship registers law, land register law and matrimonial property register law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Since draft 708 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. I will put draft 708 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the ship's registers Act, the Land Register Act and the matrimonial property register Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 708 has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U7	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the Act amending the Emergency Status Act, the Emergency Act and the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated by the National Defence Commission. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Innar Mäesalu, member of the National Defence Committee! Good fellows, I beg you to be quiet!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U8	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft initiated by the National Defence Commission under discussion was completed. a on November 4. By the deadline for tabling amendments, i.e. a No amendments were tabled by 12 noon on 11 November. To clarify the first reading report, I note that the Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 16 October 2014 and decided to support it with one vote. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 11 November and approved by consensus the text of the draft second reading. At its meeting on 17 November, the Committee on National Defence, with one vote, approved the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading. At the session of 11 November 2014, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included in the Riigikogu's plenary session for the second reading. a on the agenda for the meeting on 20 November. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U9	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No amendments to bill 719 have been received. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. Second reading is complete. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U10	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the Act amending the Law on the Courts and the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Good fellows! Before we go to this item, let us briefly introduce the second reading procedure under the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. First of all, the presentation by the representative of the commission shall be up to 20 minutes. Then the originator's report, if any, is not currently available. Then there are questions. After that, everyone will be able to participate in the negotiations. Let us be clear, the lead committee is of the opinion that the second reading must be completed. It is a great honour for me to now ask for the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the Courts took place on 21 October. a and the first meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 10 November and the second meeting on 18 November. At the first meeting we discussed the content of the draft amendments. Some members of the committee considered that the Chairman of the Supreme Court, from whom the two proposals originated, should come to the committee meeting to explain his proposals and answer our questions. Priit Pikamäe, Chairman of the Supreme Court, attended the meeting on 18 November, where he answered questions asked by members of the committee. The first amendment of the bill provides for the term of office of the Chair of the College of the Supreme Court. It is currently not regulated, but it is a widespread practice that a time limit needs to be set for the performance of an administrative office. The proposal was to set a specific deadline and proposed five years. The Commission agreed and no one had any questions about it. The second part of this proposal was the question of when the change would take effect. We found that this could apply from 1 January 2015. As the draft also provides for the composition of the panel, a small general debate on the subject arose. Some of the members of the Commission expressed the opinion that this is overregulation if we fix in law who should belong to one committee or another. It was considered that this could be a matter of internal regulation. We did, however, stick to the provision of the law proposed in the draft, because the Commission's specific nature is that it can decide whether or not to qualify. It also has legal implications. One amendment concerns the determination of the representation expenses of the President of the Supreme Court. The proposal was initially made by the President of the Supreme Court and forwarded through me to the Constitutional Committee. The law should provide for the representation expenses of the President of the Supreme Court at 20% of his salary, which is not taxed on income tax. This raised questions among the Members of the Commission. Priit Pikamäe explained that this would be necessary because about a third of his working time would be spent on various representative functions. He read out a number of international organisations and networks where he should participate. We found that in addition to the representation fees of the representatives of executive power and legislative power, or their analogues, the law should also provide for reimbursement of the expenses of the President of the Supreme Court, or the representative of the third power. In this way, the branches of power would be treated more or less on an equal footing. Priit Pikamäe also explained that there is nothing more to ask for the state budget and that it is coordinated with the Ministry of Finance. Currently, no compensation is paid or has ever been paid to the Chairman of the Supreme Court for performing the functions of representation, as there is no provision in the law to that effect. Legal regulation is necessary, first and foremost, to have an appropriate accounting basis. After clarification and debate, the Commission agreed with the proposal on representation costs. The last proposal concerned the provisions for the entry into force of the law. Initially, they were planned for an earlier period, but since our decision-making and procedure took a little longer, we will see that the law as a whole could enter into force next year, from 1 January 2015. The Commission decided to submit a draft law to the third reading when the second one was closed and to do the third reading on 2 December. a. All decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U12	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? No, it's not. Good waitress, thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. Three amendments to the draft have also been received, all of which are from the lead committee. Let's start reviewing them. The first, second and third amendments. We have examined the proposals. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the third item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U13	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu initiated by the Constitutional Committee. I ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U14	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Since the difference between the first and second readings of this draft has been very long, I will begin with a small introduction of a general nature. The Constitution establishes the Republic of Estonia as a parliamentary state and has provided in § 76 the immunity of members of the Riigikogu. The Constitution does not provide for immunity for any other person in office. In order for the principle of a provision of the Constitution to be clear and applicable, it must be reproduced in the law. That is what the bill seeks. Members are subject to a special law based on the Constitution, the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which is why immunity must be regulated through this law. In its idea, immunity is primarily intended to protect the opposition from abuse of coalition power, but also to protect the legislator as a whole from unjustified interference with the executive power. Immunity is a well-known principle in Parliamentaryism, which is applied in many European countries. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe has also produced an in-depth review report on this in March 2014. To conclude with the introduction, I would stress that no one will gain a speck of immunity. The law regulates, first, the procedural differences in the application of immunity in criminal and misdemeanour proceedings, and, second, the exercise of the security audit by members of the Riigikogu who wish to be members of the National Defence Committee. The message to voters and investigative journalism is that only people with an impeccable background can become members of the Riigikogu, and the review should have been carried out before the election decision, in which case we would not need immunity procedures. I would remind you that one of the motives for the draft was the proposal No 14 made by the Chancellor of Justice on 21 March 2012, according to which § 377 (1), (3), (5) and (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure must be brought into line with § 79 and 139 of the Constitution. This draft has been under discussion in the Commission for a very long time. The first reading was about a year ago, on 12 November, and already before that, the Commission discussed the draft proposal three times. The first reading was closed on 15 November 2013 and followed by five meetings of the Commission where the draft was on the agenda. This issue has therefore been considered long and comprehensively. It would be difficult to give an overview, if not impossible. Our Commission officials have done a good job, and the explanatory memorandum provides answers to what has been done and how. I will only give an overview of the problems at stake here. At the beginning of the last meeting, we tried to find out whether everyone agreed on the necessity and form of a legislative amendment. The Group of the Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Centre Party clearly agreed. Finally, the IRL also expressed its views on the draft they do not block. We therefore found that there was consensus among the parties. At the last meeting of the committee, we had an argument about what to understand when members of the Riigikogu perform their duties. The law provides that the procedural procedures applied must not interfere with the performance of the duties of a member of the Riigikogu. We found that the reply is provided by §§ 47 and 52 of the current Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which describe what should be understood as the duties of a member of the Riigikogu. This is a brief summary of the Riigikogu's sitting work. At the same time, we must bear in mind that the presumption of innocence also applies to Members. The mandate of a member of the Riigikogu, the obligation continues even if he is subject to criminal proceedings or misdemeanour proceedings. Another group of problems relates to the authorisation of procedural procedures, one of which is a search permit. In the previous draft we had designed so that, based on the status of the Riigikogu in a parliamentary state, the administration of the legislator should be aware of the search and give its own permission. This raised a number of questions in the Members of the Commission. We discussed that this is not the right way, because the governing board of the Riigikogu is still a political body. Moreover, if a search permit were granted by the board of directors, the investigation would lead to the disappearance or questioning of the unexpected and successful conduct of the proceedings. Now we've found a better solution. The authorisation is granted by the Chancellor of Justice as an independent and impartial evaluator, a legal expert who, while not checking the content of the application and the evidence, assesses the compatibility of the matter with procedural rules and other laws. Then I'll talk about surveillance. The bill provides that surveillance activities are authorised by the chairman of Tallinn Circuit Court. If, in other cases, in normal criminal proceedings, the judge of first instance grants permission, then we now found that the degree of admission for a member of the Riigikogu could be higher. We also discussed with the head of the circuit court who found it possible for him to perform this function. Thus, the clause that the chairman of Tallinn District Court gives permission for surveillance activities remained in the draft. Cases where this is needed are likely to be individual cases and do not involve a high workload. One of the issues relating to the granting of authorisation is the taking of personal liberty, that is to say, first and foremost, arrest. Personal freedom is an important constitutional value and also important for maintaining the working capacity of the Riigikogu. We therefore considered that the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu should be involved, which will decide whether the permission to take liberty is justified or not. Freedom is an exceptional measure and should not normally be necessary in normal criminal proceedings. This was a summary overview of the differences between ordinary criminal proceedings. There are other details, they relate to terminology, etc., but I'm not going to explain them right now. One of the topics of the draft is the security audit of the members of the Riigikogu. This is in the law because it concerns the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu. In the course of security checks, a person is subjected to a variety of steps that violate the privacy and privacy of a private life, so it would be appropriate to regulate it in law. When we are talking about the protection of state secrets, in our security situation, it would be wise to subject those of us who wish or who are proposed by a party as a member of the National Defence Committee to security or background checks. In that case, they will know in advance that their future position will be accompanied by a background check. That is not the case at the moment. It may be that a person is on the National Defence Committee, but he has not been given access to secrets. The requirement for security checks on people exposed to state secrets is due to our NATO membership. A separate point of dispute was whether the President of the Riigikogu should remain under security control. This was not the case with the previous plan, but apart from the discussion and reading of this provision, we had no choice but to admit that the President of the Riigikogu should also pass the security check. In international practice, only one person, namely the Head of State, is excluded from the requirement for security clearance. These are, in conclusion, the issues that we want to regulate with this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U15	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U16	Thank you. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! The bill states that special measures may be taken against a member of the Riigikogu without his or her consent. Please speak in plain language what special measures mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U17	Which part do you read it from? Probably from the text of the law. I'm sorry I forgot to talk about it, so I have to explain. We have the law of law enforcement, the implementation of special measures is set out there. I cannot say the exact answer by heart, but the list of measures came here because the Law on Law Enforcement defines the application of specific measures. This means that if, for example, a person is in a dangerous drinking, aggressive or other situation, he or she may be detained either by sobering or by driving a vehicle, etc. The exact list of measures is in law enforcement, it's taken over, nothing else.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U18	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! You discussed the issue of the search of premises and the procedure for authorising it. But what about our cars in this yard? Does workspace mean cars, or do they follow some other procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U20	The car still belongs to a person, not to a job. We don't have any cars. What we are currently trying to regulate by law concerns the Riigikogu buildings, not the personal property of the vigilante or the search of someone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U21	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U22	Thank you. Good waitress! As far as I know, at least three members of the Riigikogu have an official car. But that's it. My question is broader. Why are we working on this bill? What will happen to society if we continue to live by the current Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu? Why do you need it so badly, what are you doing with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U23	We're not gonna stop it. The Constitution states that a member of the Riigikogu is untouchable. Where there is no relevant legal regulation explaining what that immunity means, each applying or processing body shall interpret it in accordance with its own wishes and understanding. Based on the position of the Riigikogu in the hierarchy of state power, the criminal procedure procedure should be governed by law. For example, in the event of poor thinking, a member of the Riigikogu may be detained on the eve of a decisive vote, on some fancy pretext or for any reason, and we have failed the draft. This, however, may have national consequences. In order to avoid such threats and interpretations, we should make appropriate legislation, and that is what we are trying to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U24	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U25	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is about the obligation of the President of the Riigikogu to carry out security checks, which should be in force in the future. As we know, so far there is a procedure that security checks must be carried out before the post is taken. But it's gonna take a long time. The President of the Riigikogu is elected every year. True, it may be the same person, but it could be someone else. So what's it gonna look like in practice? Will the Chairman of the Riigikogu not be given powers until the security check has been passed, or will he be checked afterwards when he is already in office? And why only the President of the Riigikogu, but not the Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu? We're checking Nestor, but we're not checking the bike. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U26	Thank you. We had a debate and a debate on this. In theory, the chairman may change every year, but current practice does not confirm this. We also talked to the officials of the surveillance authorities and they found that the security checks of both the members of the National Defence Commission and the Chairman of the Riigikogu can also be carried out in a slightly accelerated manner, so-called priority, if this takes place in the normal course of the inspection. As long as the controls are ongoing, people will not have access to state secrets according to NATO standard. If the permit comes, the materials can be dealt with further. Our security situation obviously requires this, which is why it says so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U27	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If I have understood your report correctly, the committee maintains the working procedures of a member of the Riigikogu as an employment relationship. However, we also have state-owned companies and state-owned companies. The members of the Riigikogu are known to belong to one of them, i.e. the Riigikogu has given the mandate. Is participation in meetings and working forms of these associations also the work of a member of the Riigikogu or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U29	Yeah, that's something you can think about. But the question arose because of one of our colleagues today who was invited to the hearing at the time when the Riigikogu was supposed to be doing the work of the sitting. In order for these things to be in some kind of reasonable balance, we should draw somewhere along the line. In our view, it is precisely in plenary or in committees that the limit must be set. The Labour and Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu states exactly what the work of the Riigikogu is in the meaning of the Act. Certainly not going down there to see voters, for example. It's not like I can't come to the trial or go to the procedure because I'm going to meet the voters, I'm having some sort of election meeting or something. These activities are of a different nature and should be subject to the interests of the procedure. At the same time, the interests of the proceedings cannot be elevated above the work of the Riigikogu if the mandate continues. In order to carry out the mandate, a member of the Riigikogu must still be physically present, otherwise things may get out of hand. But we'll see in time how it all starts to work. It's not like you can see all the solutions in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U30	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. When you answered Mr Kiisler's question, you described a situation where, before any decisive vote, the judicial or law enforcement authorities might somehow detain our colleagues and thus thwart a responsible vote. Can it be concluded that you or the Commission have doubts that our law enforcement bodies may be used for political purposes, or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U32	I have no such doubt, but world practice has shown that it is a possible scenario that can be realised. The legislator should not be so vulnerable. The point is above all to give a general guarantee so that such temptation does not arise. Parliament's balance can be very fragile, for example, it may occur that one vote decides on the result of the vote. We'll never know. It may also be that we have a character like Maxim Undi as the Minister of the Interior who thinks that some of the ambassadors have to get out of the way, and that's what he's doing. This is, of course, a bad scenario, but we also need to think theoretically about possible situations. This is also referred to in the report of the Venice Commission, which deals with and clarifies the subject of immunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U33	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U34	Thank you. My question comes as a follow-up question for your answer. Am I right to understand that if the Chairman of the Riigikogu does not meet the requirements of the Security Audit Office, he may continue in his office with a so-called limited mandate? The law doesn't say he should resign in that case. However, it is a strange situation in itself that a person does not meet the requirements and has limited powers, but continues to do so. Is it planned to do the same when manning other similar posts that if they do not meet the requirements, they will continue with limited powers? I think it's weird.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U35	I don't think it's weird. The essence of parliamentarianism is that MEPs are representatives of the people. Whether they're from any background, the people have chosen them here. Security controls concern only one part of our activities, namely access to materials with high national secrets. The final permission is granted not by the security authority that carries out the security check, but by our own committee, the special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu. Background control does not affect the Member's mandate in the slightest; it remains. It is not quite right to say that he does not qualify or meet the requirements. He may not be qualified to work with security material alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U36	Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U37	Mr President! Dear waitress, My question, too, is to some extent a follow-up to Mr Reinu's question and the answer given to this question as to where exactly the line between the duties of a member of the Riigikogu should be drawn. One party is indeed the foundations established by the state, the profit institutions to which the Riigikogu appoints the members of the supervisory bodies by decision, and they are therefore obliged to participate in this work. Similarly, the delegations formed by the Riigikogu, where appointment requires an obligation to participate in this work, such as the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, etc. Should they be on one side of the line if on the other side there are so-called electoral meetings or obligations of this kind? Maybe we could explain a little bit more about what's on the other side of the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U38	I'm afraid there's no one clear answer. We must put into consideration, first, what is the general interest of the procedure and the legitimate activities of the competent law enforcement authorities of the state, and, secondly, whether a member of the Riigikogu is in a delegation or at a council meeting. It is very possible that this council meeting can be postponed or replaced, and maybe this will happen even if a member of the Riigikogu does not participate. Or there's some sort of delegation trip somewhere, so this delegation goes out without one member and the meeting is held anyway, without his participation. However, the absence of one or more members may be quite decisive when voting in the Riigikogu Chamber. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U39	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 396. 17 amendments have been received. From the first to the sixth amendment, the lead committee has made the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth. Amendment 7 has been made by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendments 8, 17 and 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 have been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments, the position of the lead committee is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the fourth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U40	Let's move on to agenda number five. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 663. I ask Peep Aru, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, to speak at the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U41	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. May 6th, and at first reading, we did it in September. In preparation for the second reading, we held three Commission meetings on this subject: on 6 October, 13 October and 10 November. One of the major issues was the additional obligation for the Chancellor of Justice to amend this law and the right to monitor aspects relating to the exercise of fundamental rights of persons in the course of the collection, processing, use and supervision of hidden personal data and related information. We discussed whether this right was unlimited or whether it had some restrictive circumstances. We found that there should also be restrictive moments because of the circumstances surrounding surveillance activities. To some extent, we have based ourselves on restrictions fixed in the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. There was a longer dispute about what access the Chancellor of Justice could have to matters relating to joint international operations of security authorities. After long discussions, we found a proper wording that was acceptable to all parties. Amendments 1 and 3 concern these matters. Proposal No 1 applies purely to the Chancellor of Justice and No 3 applies to the Deputy Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice. The fact that in both cases all the facts are specifically highlighted is a consequence of the structure of the law in force in the Chancellor of Justice. Amendment 2 provides unambiguously for the right of the Chancellor of Justice to open proceedings on application or on his own initiative. In the course of the procedure of the draft act, the Chancellor of Justice has expressed the view that the current law does not allow the proactive and regular monitoring of the arrangements for the processing and monitoring of hidden personal data and related information, provided that prior information is available as a precondition for the commencement of supervision. The concept of received information is not defined in the current law and therefore allows for a broad interpretation. For the sake of clarity, it is proposed to clarify the existing law. As a result, the title of the law has also changed, and it is no longer a law of extension, but a law of amendment. It was brief, summarised all. If you ladies and gentlemen have questions, I will try to answer them within the limits of my knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U42	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U43	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The Chancellors of Justice have been working in Estonia for a long time; they have not been in office for just one year. Why did the Chancellor of Justice's law come to our table this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U44	If you remember the long history of the work of the Chancellor of Justice and the decisions taken in the Chamber of Riigikogu, you will remember that there have been other changes during the time of the Chancellor of Justice's work. If I remember correctly, for example, things relating to child welfare were once financed and decided that the Chancellor of Justice would have to deal with them. So is this time. The Chancellor of Justice certainly has the right to deal with these matters on the basis of his earlier application or information. In order for this to be perfectly clear and unambiguously understood, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs found it necessary to amend the law of the Chancellor of Justice. Then, in our surveillance and security control system, a very important section and gap have been filled, namely the control of an independent official. Now we are responding, say, to a proper country within the meaning of European democracy, where there are several aspects and actors of control, and we all have the confidence that our fundamental rights will not be violated or violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U45	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will go to the amendments to the draft 663. Three amendments have been received from the lead committee. The first, second and third amendments. We have examined the proposals. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. Second reading is complete. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U46	Let's move on to item six. This is the second reading of Bill 602 of Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like to ask Peep Aru, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U47	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I will try to fill your time. As you will notice, the parts of the democratic package gradually reach the point where we are approaching the adoption of laws. One draft tabled by the Socialists is now at second reading. If you remember, the reason for this draft was above all the need to make the election of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Municipal Council at the same time. This should provide a greater opportunity for the opposition forces, which have a prominent position in local government councils, also to gain leadership over the committees. This was, in turn, motivated by the fact that, unfortunately, our governments often understand democracy differently. So let's try to show the way in the Riigikogu Hall. We discussed the draft for second reading twice in committee, on 4 and 11 November, and decided to send it here and finish the second reading. The Commission has also tabled three amendments. The third is perhaps the easiest, it is the time for the draft to enter into force. We have come to the view that this could be the next time for local government councils to enter into force, 16 October 2017. The first proposal was made by the Centre Party Group. In advance, it should be said that we supported this in part. In the original version of the draft act, it was stated that each member of the council has the right to belong to at least one committee on the basis of a personal request. There is now a proposal to abolish the requirement of a personal request, and that is what we supported. However, in order to really protect the interests of all political forces in the formation of committees and to take account of the proposal made by the Centre Party, we have formulated another amendment. At this point, a little bit longer than that. The proposal deletes the provision in § 47 (1) of the COKS draft that a member of a local government council entity is entitled to belong on the basis of a personal request from a committee set up by the Council. In the event of the appointment of a member of the Council on the basis of a personal request, it may not be possible to ensure a proportionate representation of the political party elected in the elections and the lists of the electoral union on the committees of the Council. The proposal also excludes from the draft the paragraphs governing the determination of the result of the election of the chairman and vice-chairman or vice-chairmen of the Commission in cases where the votes cast on candidates are equally divided. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it important to establish a general principle, i.e. a requirement for the simultaneous election of its Chairs and Vice-Chairs. The amendment should not intrude on the excessive detailing of the internal organisation of the local government council units, i.e. in the case of equal items or equal results, local government councils could define this solution in their statutes. On the basis of the proposal, a new wording has also been given to the provision that the representation of the political party elected and the lists of the electoral union in the committees to be set up by the council must be proportionate to their representation in the council. It may be difficult to ensure the exact proportional representation of political parties and electoral associations represented in the Council's committees if the number of members of the committee does not correspond exactly to the number of members of the council. The proposal therefore lays down a more general requirement that the proportion of representatives of political parties and electoral associations in the council be taken into account when establishing the composition of council committees. Local government entities can, if necessary, further regulate matters related to compliance with the requirement in the city or rural municipality's statutes. I believe that if there are two demands for the simultaneous election of the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee and that the proportion of the results obtained in the elections should be taken into account in determining the number structure of the council committee between the political forces, then a good step forward will be achieved so that the winner does not take everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U48	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U49	Thank you. Good waitress! I certainly welcome this plan that we are trying to develop democracy at local level and somehow to regulate the numerical ratio of committee presidents and members. But I think we have an even more serious problem. I can give an example of at least two municipalities, one being Viimsi and the other is Ridala Parish, both under the leadership of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which also fail to comply with a valid law that allows council members to belong to a committee. This means that the opposition politicians elected to the council cannot actually participate in the work of the council, because they are simply not allowed by any committee. They say it's not done because you can't force it. What happens if we adopt a specific legislation that should develop democracy, but it is still not being implemented and only whistled on it? Are there any sanctions to force the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U50	Yeah, that's definitely a serious question. It's sad when our local councils have this attitude. I only have experience of the work of the local government council in Viljandi, and we never had such problems. In Viljandi, for example, we have also implemented the provision of proportionality, or such an understanding, I do not remember many times; in any case, it has a very long history. All political forces have agreed in a perfectly normal way that it is such a normal job. I am, of course, sorry that no amendments were received to resolve the problem raised by Mr Lillo during the procedure for the draft. But we still have three months, and the next Riigikogu will come. So really, if this shoe squeezes so hard, and it seems that this is the case, then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could turn to this matter. It would be even better if someone also submitted a draft to this effect, so that we alone should not be the ones to take the initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U51	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, We have a number of topics that, according to a very clear understanding of society, we could deal with, such as kindergartens, certainly kindergarten teachers, and there are many other aspects. If you know the local conditions, you'll probably agree. Our justification in this Chamber has been that we are not interfering with the promotion of democracy in the local government, as you said. Are you now convinced in the Commission that such an intervention is justified? We are setting a precedent that can't be withdrawn later.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U53	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U54	Yeah, that's a very serious question of where to draw the line. We had very serious disputes in the Commission and, in the meantime, we had far more intrusive options. But our so-called collective mind thought it was necessary to intervene as little as possible. If we see an obvious injustice or a totally undemocratic approach and an overdrive from someone's interests, I think it is our duty to intervene. I believe that a good balance was found with regard to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U55	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague Peep! You have the experience of Viljandi, I have the experience of Põlva. We have never had such a problem either, that there are no seats and no one gets exactly to the committee that he has wanted. On the question of Mr Lillo, the law states that every member of the Council has the right to be a member of the Commission. If this right cannot be exercised, then it is probably necessary to refer the matter to the court. But if the judgment is not enforced, then the example of the state must be looked at, because the state has at least three judgments of the Supreme Court that are not enforced. So I don't know if the local government should fill them. It's a small comment. But in fact, the law states that a member of the council is entitled to be a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U56	Thank you for your support in answering the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U57	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U58	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I read here that the chairman and vice-chairman or vice-chairmen of the committee are elected at the same time. Can it be understood that if the Vice-Chairman of the Commission or one of the Vice-Chairpersons resigns, the whole set, including the Chairman, must be re-elected? Did the committee also have a discussion that the management of the local government council could be elected in the same way as the chairman and vice-chairmen of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U59	To answer the first question, of course, that is what this means, that is the logic of how otherwise. Although, directly, in some councils, it is probably the case, especially for vice-chairmen, but also for the chairman, that in this case elections are not organised and only one leads the Commission. Theoretically, it's possible. However, if we assume that the principle of the Riigikogu should be respected, new elections should be held. Question two... I'm sorry, what was that? Yeah, we discussed that. We thought it was either up or down the border, and I don't know where to go and I shouldn't get involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U60	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U61	Dear waitress, In addition to Mr Tamme's remark, I would remind you that several councils have already gone all the way to the Chancellor of Justice and the courts, but everything has ended because, according to the Chancellor of Justice, the intervention must still be decided by the Riigikogu. That is why this draft has been submitted that all other options have been tested. But now I'm gonna ask you another question. How does the Commission justify that the draft will enter into force as of the next elections? In the other councils Mr Lillogi talked about, there is no problem. For God's sake, everything's always been fine in Viljandi and they don't need that law. What are your reasons for not being able to deal with your own legislation in these councils where there are problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U62	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U63	The debate on the date of entry into force was quite lively and quite a number of options were proposed. But the reasoning was above all that we should try to cause as little confusion as possible. Councils must be given sufficient time, for example to complete the basic regulations, because it is already taking a long time to make the regulation itself. If I remember correctly, there must be three readings. Now, if we're gonna roll this thing around, we could force all the councils to reorganize their work within a year. But it may not be quite normal if, in all local government councils in Estonia, the leaders of the committee are re-elected on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu. Thus, the compromise and general understanding was that each municipality deserves its leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Based on your long-term work, aren't you concerned that every decision we make will reduce the strength of the local government? From the revenue base and the land tax from which we took away the financial opportunities, to the implementation of taxes and the appointment of committees. What is the origin of this trend in centralisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U65	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U66	You, honourable questioner, have a great skill in putting all the mush and cabbages together. It's completely different. What are somebody's rights limited to? On the contrary, I say that minority rights have been increased. So don't use that method in the future. Why don't you ask me one question about everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U67	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the chairman of the council is elected by the election committee. But I see that it says here: 'The composition of the Volikogu Commission is taken into account... " Who needs to consider this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U68	The local government council, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-20_U69	Good waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 602. Three amendments have been received. The first is from the Estonian Centre Party Group; the position of the commission is to take part in the consideration. The second amendment is from the lead committee. The third amendment is from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 11.10 a.m.
