ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U1	Dear colleagues, Prime Minister and members of the government, good afternoon. Let's start the 14th May briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 38 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 63 are missing. In today's Question Time, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar and Minister Urmas Kruuse are responding. The members of the Riigikogu have already asked six written questions in the past. For each subject, I will allow two additional questions to be put on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U2	The first question is asked by Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and the topic is the country's budgetary strategy. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U3	Prime Minister! My question is about the country's budgetary strategy. The IRL has already expressed its views that this strategy has been overly optimistic. On Monday, news also came about the poor economic outlook for the first quarter, our economy is in recession. Does the Government of the Republic consider it necessary to review the country's fiscal strategy in a more conservative direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U4	Thank you. As you well know, no country's budget strategy has been set up and all these are reviewed every year. The figures in the country's budget strategy may not fully match what the final budget will be in autumn. There is no reason to worry here, we are prepared to draw up the state budget and, as we do every year this year, we know the forecast that will appear in August, but also what has happened not only in the first quarter but also in the second quarter. There is no reason to change the country's budgetary strategies based on the state of the spring for a period of four years, as the figures in the strategy for the following year can already be revised in the autumn with an annual budget if necessary. I am sure, however, very interested in your proposal for what to do if the recession continues. While I believe that this will not continue, the signs suggest that the next quarter will be better, but if the recession continues, what is the IRL proposal? Should we react with an even greater structural surplus, or what do you think fiscal policy should be? Our fiscal policy is designed to maintain balance, whether the economy is in a recession or an upturn. A sound and predictable fiscal policy has brought Estonia success in the past and will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U5	Thank you. The first question to be specified, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! IRL's understanding, both in government and in opposition, has been that if the economic outlook deteriorates, it will not be possible to increase the state's costs, as in booming times, and to try to cover fixed costs and planned running costs from reserves. It's actually living beyond power, and it means a minus budget. Mr. Prime Minister! If fixed costs are covered by reserves, is the budget balanced or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U7	Thank you. The government that I run certainly does not intend to cover fixed costs from reserves. However, my ear was affected when you said that the IRL was based on some principles both in the government and in the opposition. I remember, and I believe that everyone in this room remembers that there have been quite a few different IRLs in recent months. I can refresh your memory a little bit. For example, on 11 March, Margus Tsahkna proposed to increase child allowances to EUR 60 without having to provide a source of cover. It had an impact on the budget of EUR 109 million. At the same time, on 23 April, Sven Sester said that he was more interested in whether, in the current situation, certain costs should not be reduced that are expected to be incurred in the near future and, by means of new revenues, to increase reserves. You have also repeatedly said, Urmas Reinsalu, that the treatment of the economic downturn at higher costs in the country must be stopped and that the growth of the country's fixed costs at the expense of reserves must be quickly braked. At the same time, another member of the IRL, Sven Sester, removed one amendment to the Income Tax Act from the drawer on 13 March, which would also have increased the expenditure of the state budget without any source of cover. I could continue this list for quite a while. The changes in your mind about the VAT return also deserve attention. For example, Sven Sester m. on 12 November 2010 so that the Riigikogu could adopt this draft as a law in the next year, i.e. 2014. However, the same Sven Sester recently said that the time needed to be taken off when this bill was being processed. Jne, et cetera.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U8	The second point, Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U9	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! You gave an overview of the statements and positions of the IRL, but my question was about the government. Last year, when the country's fiscal strategy was based on a much more positive growth perspective, it anticipated a nominal surplus for the coming years and that reserves would be collected and not fed. In the first few weeks after taking office, your government adopted a country's budgetary strategy aimed at a uniform level: a nominal deficit in the coming years and a surge in fixed costs, which will be covered by reserves. My concern is that it is not sustainable. In the light of the latest news, too, it has nothing to do with what is happening in the real economy. The question is whether it is right to make higher costs and cover them from reserves. That's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U10	Your time is up. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U11	Thank you. Your information seems to be all wrong. The budget is planned for the next year as well as for the following year in a structural balance and even in a surplus next year. Perhaps with further steps we will increase the surplus further, but on the basis of the decisions already taken, the budget will be in structural surplus next year. The only two things that create a nominal deficit are linked to one-off factors, not to a large increase in fixed costs, as you are constantly trying to say. This argument is not true. Let's look at the fixed costs the coalition is planning. All of them have a source of cover. You are always referring to an increase in child benefits and a reduction in the tax burden on labour. Just tell me which one you're against! On 11 March, Margus Tsahkna, a member of your party, said that child allowances should be increased. He said that even a source of cover would not be needed, as long as these subsidies increased. Now that we raise child benefits, true, in anticipation of the source of cover and somewhat less than what he has offered, because we have actually assessed the thickness of the national purse, you say no, it should not be done. Do I have to list some more of your own proposals to increase the specific expenditure you have made over the last seven days? I would very much like to have a discussion with the opposition and listen to him, but I am embarrassed because your views will change not in weeks or months, but in days. So which IRL should I be dialogueing with?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U12	Now two issues registered on the spot. Initiating Heimar Lenk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U13	Thank you. Prime Minister! You must also take into account the economic downturn that was announced yesterday in the budgetary strategy. The economy has dropped by nearly 2% unexpectedly for everyone. I was puzzled by your advisor and advisor Maris Lauri's explanation that we had too much winter, which is why we were in recession. It caused murmuring in the broad masses, and it also brought a smile to the face. People were glad they could pay a little less for the heat in the winter, but now it turns out they were doing the country a disservice. This morning a person sent me an e-mail, where he wrote that the new Estonian government was using the same rhetoric as was used during the Soviet era, when, as you know, the opponents of Soviet power were winter, summer, autumn and spring. Can't the government provide more serious and meaningful explanations about such shocking news, I think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U14	Thank you. The truth is that the preliminary data for the first quarter were surprising, as you rightly said, and certainly not positively surprising. But I think we all have reason to try to understand why this number was like that. Indeed, Maris Lauri pointed out that in the first quarter of Estonia, electricity was produced as much as 19% less than a year ago, in the first quarter of 2013. It is true that electricity was not consumed as much less, as imports of electricity also increased. You can read more about it if you're interested, from Maris Lauri's blog. Of course, the fact that electricity production decreased by one fifth affected the state of the economy. We know how big energy is as an industry. At the same time, more than 11% of thermal energy production fell, and this certainly affected the economic situation. But the whole picture doesn't explain with energy alone. What makes me more concerned than the reduction in electricity generation is that the Finnish, Swedish and Russian economies are not doing as well as they would have expected. This naturally also affects Estonian exports to these countries. We can see that Swedish exports have decreased. As Estonia's exports are related to Swedish exports, because we do a lot of outsourcing to Swedish companies, this also affects our economic indicators. I think that the success of exports must be monitored much more seriously. This is an area where we need to look very closely at what the second quarter brings. But, luckily, there are also positive messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U15	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I also love that due to the warm winter, my heating and electricity bills were smaller this year. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. According to official data from the Tax and Customs Board, 30.9% of the planned year has been entered into the state budget during the first four months of this year. This is the highest revenue in the last 10 years in the first four months of the year, as a percentage of the total budget. When designing a budget strategy, does the government take into account budget receipts, in addition to growth and recession, the very large increase in budget volume? Secondly, does the government agree with the International Monetary Fund's assessment that automatic stabilisers must be applied in Estonia in the event of a recession? [[The bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U17	Good questioner, your time is up. I ask the Prime Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U18	Thank you. Indeed, tax receipts were much better at the beginning of the year than they were a year earlier. The share of the first three months, as well as of the four months, is a record for quite a long time. The second positive step, which gives rise to a degree of optimism, is that in the first quarter, people's incomes increased significantly: average wages 7.3% and median wages 8.9%. This naturally affects people's livelihoods, but it also gives them the opportunity to consume more, and it is likely to be seen in domestic consumption in the next quarters. It is also important to know that unemployment decreased significantly in the first quarter, while we have 15% fewer unemployed than at the beginning of the year. This is a big step forward. I am pleased to see that not only in the first quarter, but also in April, unemployment continued to decline. This certainly also has a positive impact on the budget receipts, since tax revenue is directly linked to the budget receipts. However, I would refrain from making any positive changes to the budget on the basis of better tax receipts in the first quarter, a reduction in unemployment and an increase in wages. Certainly even if the budget receipts turn out to be higher than expected at the end of the year, we do not intend to make a positive additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U19	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U20	Let us move to the second question posed by the member of the Riigikogu Ester Tuiksoo. The Minister for Agriculture, Ivari Padar, responds. The subject is agricultural policy. Esther Tuiksoo, please! Only two on-the-spot questions can be submitted on this issue too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! You have had a very good experience with the European Parliament and you have come to the government at a very timely time. You still had the honour of catching up on the rural development plan and deciding on its final formation. You are certainly well aware that other countries contribute as much as possible to the common agricultural policy. Our neighbors won't save it either. Estonia has contributed very little to its budget throughout the ages, but it has shared European taxpayers' money. Do you consider this to be normal, and are you satisfied with what you're doing in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U22	Thank you. It is true that the rural development plan is in its final stages. According to today's plans, it will go to government coordination tomorrow. It is also true that, just as with other European Union grants, as with agriculture and rural development grants, the Estonian state applies a minimum rate of co-financing. We've been doing this for years, but this rate has changed now. When my predecessor, Helir-Valdor Seeder, started drawing up a rural development plan two years ago, it was assumed that the co-financing rate would be 25%. Indeed, the minimum rate changed at the end of last year at the twelfth hour. The final compromise proposed by the European Parliament is that 15% could be a mandatory minimum for all countries. That's what we've been doing. Today I do not have an analysis of the co-financing rate for other Member States. We also do not quite know exactly what the content of the rural development plan in other countries is, what expenditure they have planned to cover and what expenditure they have not. In any case, Estonia operates within the limits of its state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U23	The first question to be specified, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would have liked to have heard your personal opinion. Are you really satisfied with the minimum funding that Estonia has chosen? You obviously agree with me that if other countries contribute more, this will further increase the level playing field in the agricultural market. But I'm going to ask you very specifically. The rural development plan also includes a financial instrument. Please open up what your thoughts are about this and what the percentage is if producers use it for borrowing!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U25	Thank you. We are currently working on a large financial table in the context of the rural development plan, i.e., as I recall, about 20 subsets of how we plan to use this money. One of these divisions is indeed a financial instrument. We have reached an initial agreement on the overall volume of the financial instrument. As regards the details on how to use the financial instrument, this is the subject of a future debate. In any case, the financial instrument is a new phenomenon. I expect the Rural Promotion Foundation to use it to solve problems when it comes to market failure, but not to pay off bad business plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U26	The second point, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, There are elections to the European Parliament and you are one candidate. If I have understood correctly, you may have come here for a short time and are ready to go back to the European Parliament. In that case, it is understandable why you feel so cold about the rural development plan. But you will then prepare a new financial period starting in 2020. What proposals do you intend to put forward, or what are you planning to do to make the Estonian agricultural sector more financially win after 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U28	Thank you. Indeed, in the context of the elections to the European Parliament, we do not have much point today in talking about what is happening in the financial period that has begun, in the years 2014 to 2020. The idea must move forward, we must think about what will happen after 2020. How can we change the situation? It also depends very much on how the financial period actually begins to apply. For example, there are elements here that are quite novel to us, such as greening. Large amounts are spent on it, 30% of the volume of direct payments under the first pillar. There is a very big question as to how it applies and how practical it is, for example, in Central European countries, but also in Estonia, even from the point of view of biodiversity. This is one example that we will see in time what is good and what is wrong, and then we will be able to better plan the budget period starting in 2020. It is clear that we will certainly have to continue along this road, so that payments per hectare will continue to equalise the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U29	Now two issues registered on the spot. Begin Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Should the Estonian farmer be pleased that the volume of direct payments per hectare has almost doubled from EUR 500 million to EUR 1 billion, or should he be saddened that the co-financing of the rural development plan will fall by about 70 million euros? Perhaps because the funds to land and agriculture are increasing from EUR one and a half billion to EUR 2 billion, should we rejoice or be saddened?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U31	Thank you. The single and simple answer is, of course, to be happy about it. Let us look at the rural and agricultural purse that the European Union gives us in the new financial period. While it amounted to EUR 1.2 billion in the previous period, it will increase to EUR 1.73 billion in the new period. In addition, fisheries where the final amounts are not yet in place. But it is expected that in the area of fisheries, too, money will increase compared to the previous period. We must have the wisdom to make good use of this opportunity. It is clear that EUR 70 million is a lot of money, but it was like sharing the skin of an unshot bear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U32	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I remember very well that when you took office again as Minister of Agriculture, in one of your first speeches you said that MAK must have gotten pretty good, because no party is happy with it. Do you agree today, if you've been on the job for a few weeks, or have you had any new feelings about MAK?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U34	I have to admit that I have said somewhere that if there are a lot of parties at the table when making a rural development plan, there were 21 civil associations sitting around the table, and if none of them are satisfied, then that means that this is a pretty good plan. But think of it as my inappropriate humor. In any case, it is clear that I have tried to make the maximum possible in order to hear the views of all parties within a month and to resolve as many differences as possible. I think most of the people sitting around the table are squared away. I do not doubt that if my predecessor, Helir-Valdor Seeder, had further worked on these corners in May, the development plan would certainly have improved. That's the way these negotiations are.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U35	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U36	Let's move on to question three. It has been submitted by Priit Sibul, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. The subject is the rural development plan. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm going on with this debate. I've seen that you've begun to implement the coalition agreement. I mean, since nothing has been said about agriculture in the coalition agreement, you have not done much in this period either. So it's going to be like it says in the contract. This area seems to be what other policies are being realised in the coalition, and the situation we are in is also, in my opinion, somewhat lucid about the spring. When I look at the decisions I've made, I don't know if you were in the ministry or if you hadn't gotten there yet. These decisions are relatively incompetent. Did those come from your predecessor, Anvelt? If so, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U38	Thank you. The Ministry of Agriculture has certainly made various decisions over time, both good and bad. But I don't know which decisions you're referring to specifically. Could you elaborate on the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U39	The first question to be specified, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U40	I was talking about the rural development plan and the reduction in co-financing. I also have an addition to the question of Andrus Ansip, so that this question of EUR 500 million can somehow be added. I understand you don't see the top-up coming. However, in the previous period it was about EUR 250 million. As the number of hectares increases, how much do farmers still win? Is the victory you were talking about here the size you were trying to make an impression about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U41	Thank you. It's much clearer now. As far as agriculture and rural financing are concerned, I have been talking about this money concerning European Union financing. The European Union's financing will increase by more than EUR 500 million. As far as the co-financing of the Estonian state is concerned, it is minimal, it is smaller than it was in the previous period. Top-up financing is currently not foreseen for 2015. Whether or not the top-up financing, which can be done in the new budget period for a total amount of 140 million euros, will be implemented in Estonia, it will be the subject of the following governments. We can talk about this after the March 2015 elections. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U42	The second point, Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U43	During your term of office, the large financial table you have talked about has come up with a specific measure and a series of measures for the development of small farms. I understand that things will be settled once and for all by means of a regulation. But perhaps you can shed some light on whether these small businesses can also apply for support from the general investment money or whether they only receive support from a small farm? And how small are they? What exactly is the point of this measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U44	Thank you. This issue, as I understand it, has been discussed throughout the planning of the rural development plan over a few years, namely whether agricultural investments should be in two lines: investments by smaller producers and investments by larger producers. This measure has once existed and is then excluded from the development plan. Right now, we've brought it back. We have said in this version, which goes to government coordination, that in the small group of farmers we believe that farmers have a sales turnover of EUR 4000 to EUR 14000 per year. These are small producers for which a hundred aids are available from the small producer investment support measure. If the sales turnover is above EUR 14000, the producer will of course also be able to use the remaining agricultural investment money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U45	Now two issues registered on the spot. First Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In my opinion, this sum, called the top-up of last year, was wrong by size. It couldn't have been 240 million euros in any way, it was more like 24 million euros in my memory. I also point out that Mr Sibula's talk is in sharp contrast and even at odds with what Mr Reinsalu said that budget expenditure should be cut. But I'm asking about satisfaction. Is there so much dissatisfaction in both camps that 15% of direct payments are allowed to be transferred from the amounts of direct payments to the amounts of rural development support or, on the contrary, cannot be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U47	I can talk a little bit about this bill that'll probably be expelled from the Ministry of Agriculture tomorrow. We are expected to raise 10% of the first pillar into the second pillar so that agricultural payments are more focused and investment-oriented. With regard to 140 million and 240 million, speaking of EUR 140 million, I had in mind the possibility of paying for direct payments over the next seven years. We were talking about seven years, not one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U48	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U49	Thank you. Good colleague! I want to specify the figures that have been said here, otherwise there will be a great deal of confusion. I still remember those numbers very well. Indeed, we will receive EUR 500 million more direct aid from the European Union in the next period than in this period. However, in the previous period, EUR 250 million was paid for complementary national direct payments, which are not planned for the next period. In addition, EUR 60 million of direct payments are planned to be raised to RDP amounts and the number of hectares is no longer 840 but is approaching a million. So when we do the calculation, we realise that there will be more money coming from Europe, but farmers will receive about the same amount per hectare, it will almost not increase. But now my question. You said that there would be no direct payments for next year, but in the future these payments could come. The government approved the country's budget strategy for the period from 2015 to 2018, where no direct payments are planned. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U50	Your time is up, good questioner. I'm asking the Minister to respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U51	It is only natural that direct payments are currently not planned there. No one has prohibited these medium-term strategies from being supplemented after the new government and new political forces have come to power, all these opportunities are there. The current country's budgetary strategy is still based on those objectives and perspectives that the current government considers important. But as regards your claim that subsidies may not eventually increase, you are right. Everything you've said is absolutely right. Yes, at the moment the top-up is not planned and the number of hectares is increasing significantly. It's all true. It's like this, there's no other position here. That's how it tends to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U52	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U53	Let us move to the fourth question posed by Yana Toom, a member of the Riigikogu. This is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. The topic is the Russian-language information room. There are no more than two locally registered questions on this issue too. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U54	Mr. President! Dear Minister, I read the coalition agreement carefully again this morning and did not see any word from the Russian-language information channel or the information room. Can you tell us why it is necessary to bring this matter up right now? Is there no danger that we will be in the same situation again as in 2007 when we discussed the creation of a Russian-language television channel, then we did ETV2, and the result is that we still do not have a Russian-language channel?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U55	Thank you. I believe that all residents of Estonia have reason to be part of what is happening in Estonia, and these news must be unbiased, transmitted by free press. Of course, I would like all the people who live in Estonia to understand Estonian and follow the news in Estonian, but as a realist, I know that there are a large number of people living here who do not understand Estonian. As long as they have not mastered the Estonian language, there is probably reason to convey the news of Estonian life in Russian so that these people can understand the news. However, the question of how best to do this, I think, requires analysis. We have a very dignified panel of experts convened for this. I hope that this committee will offer solutions to ensure that no one in Estonia feels excluded from local information. Whether a new TV channel is needed for this, or whether an existing channel should be strengthened, is indicated by time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U56	Question number one, Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You mentioned this committee. Yesterday, I think the minister signed an order to set it up. There are 16 people on this committee, seven of whom are related to the media and only two are of Russian origin. How do you appreciate the signal that the formation of such a commission will give to a Russian-speaking person in Estonia when two Russians and 14 Estonians will discuss the Russian-speaking media field?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U58	Thank you. If I look at this list, unlike you, I don't see any people here who aren't involved in the media. True, if you count the people who are currently working in the press, this amount is indeed somewhat smaller. At the same time, I do not agree to say that, for example, Professor Emeritus of the University of Tartu, Marju Lauristin, would not be a person involved in the media, or any other very well-known and well-known media expert who is not currently working in a particular channel, would not be involved in the media. I believe that this panel of experts, composed of people of Estonian nationality as well as of other nationalities, is competent and prepared in a broad way. I believe that the Commission has all the preconditions for giving good advice to the government and society at large on how to achieve that no one in Estonia feels excluded from information.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U59	The second point, Yana Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I will now read out the tasks of the Special Branch: the collection and processing of information for the purposes of the violent transformation of constitutional order and territorial integrity and the prevention and prevention of intelligence and terrorism directed against the State, the protection of state secrets and classified foreign information, security control, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against corruption, the handling of other offences under the authority of investigation of the Agency. Please tell me, what is the task of dealing with the Russian-language information room, and why is Martin Arpo, Deputy Director-General of the Defence Police Department, on this committee? Or do you think kapo's yearbook is a media publication?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U61	Thank you. This committee has been put together by the Minister for Culture and the members of the committee were chosen from among the experts. I do not consider it appropriate to comment specifically on each member as Prime Minister. However, I will say that the Commission as a whole is diverse. It can be expected that it will provide good advice to both the government and society at large on how to strengthen the information space.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U62	Now two issues registered on the spot. First Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In my opinion, Radio 4 in Russian is a very objective information channel and journalists working there are doing a very good job. In my opinion, the Russian Delfi portal, the Russian Postimees online edition and the Russian Postimees, printed in 14,000 copies, are also very good information channels. Do you share my opinion? Should you be able, in the future, to support the channels in private hands that are currently not doing quite well in economic terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U64	Thank you. Since the panel of experts is just starting its work and its task is to find out which options are most effective, perhaps it would not be appropriate for me to highlight some specific options. But I do agree that Radio 4 and several other channels, including the Russian-language portal for national broadcasting, have done a good job. There are also concrete proposals on my desk on how their work can be improved. It is desirable to create new correspondent points and improve technical capabilities. I believe that there is a very serious reason to consider satisfying these requests. These costs are, if not several orders of magnitude, lower than it would be necessary to spend on the creation of a new television channel. I don't think one of you is interrupting either. Even if, as a result of the work of the Committee of Experts, we decide that a new TV channel or a television programme is needed, this does not preclude existing strong channels from being able to function better with the support of the State and to increase public support for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U65	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There was a question about why so few Russian backgrounds have been involved in this committee. In the Commission, it is as if Estonians are in the majority position to clean up the Russian-language information space. This committee is made up of experts, but is it also entitled to involve people more widely in its work and to try to solve this problem with the help of a larger community? Does the Commission have a limited right to do so, or does it have a full right to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U67	Thank you. It is likely that this Commission will also be able to involve additional expertise if necessary. But by looking at this very representative list, I have the confidence that these people know quite well both what information space Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Russian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking Estonian-speaking I do believe that the competence needed to provide a better information space for Russian-speaking Estonians as their mother tongue is entirely present in this committee. But if they think it's necessary, they'll probably be able to get help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U68	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U69	Let's move on to question five. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Jaak Aaviksoo and is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The issue again concerns the country's budgetary strategy. Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U70	Thank you! Prime Minister! The country's fiscal strategy covers the period until 2018 and nominally the state budget will grow by 29% during this period. The average wage growth in the budgetary strategy is projected at 28.4%. This is all good, and if the economy is doing well, it is likely that such growth will come. At the same time, the increase in the budget of ministries and constitutional institutions is planned to be much more modest. Half of the 18 ministries and constitutional institutions have a nominal decrease in budget, including the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Interior. How do you intend to ensure the functioning of these ministries if, despite 30% growth, their budget does not grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U71	Thank you. Indeed, it is true that the general government expenditure as a whole is planned to decrease, but that does not mean that we need to provide less public services. What this means is that we must constantly seek to provide these services more effectively and not overburden the taxpayer with taxes. When I said that these costs were planned to decrease, I meant, of course, the ratio to GDP. In absolute terms, as you rightly said, budget expenditure in the coming years is projected to increase considerably. As you know as well as I do, time will discuss exactly what this figure will be in 2018. Surely, the closer this real day comes, the smarter we are in it. As has already been said in the past, the budgetary strategy is not set in stone, but it is likely that changes will continue to be taken into account every year when making changes. But it is certainly worth taking into account one-off influences when comparing the revenue and expenditure lines of the ministries. The budget of some ministries is greatly influenced by the very high level of investment made by the European Union, for example, the ERM investment this year had a very strong impact on the growth of the Ministry of Culture's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U72	Dear colleagues, as we agreed at the beginning of Question Time, only two locally registered questions can be put on this issue. The first question to be specified, Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U73	Thank you. Unfortunately, the national budget strategy tables do not reduce the budget ratio of the nine ministries, but reduce the absolute amounts, including the Ministry of Education, by EUR 5 million in 2015, or 1% in 2018. It is certainly not possible to support the education system in this situation. I hope that the government will take this into account. However, this is the point that I have to clarify. As we know, 2018 is planned to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, and this year Estonia will also be the President of the European Union. Its estimated cost is around EUR 100 million. Are these amounts planned in the national budget strategy? If so, in what extent and on which budget lines of the public authority can they be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U74	Thank you. Your questions are detailed. You may be willing to submit them in writing. In fact, it is not even necessary, I can give them a more precise answer even if you do not submit them in writing. Responding to them requires more precise wording than talking about a country's budgetary strategy. I'd be happy to give you the exact answer. I am quite sure that the figures you have referred to are greatly influenced by what European Union investments have been planned over the years in specific areas. You have made your own education and research budget for several years; we have looked together at the future of education at the table of the government as bench neighbors according to the COFOG division. I'm sure you know quite precisely that there are one-off influences that affect the overall picture. We have certainly taken into account the fact that in the next year, the next year and the next year, teachers, as well as a number of other people working very important jobs, who will be paid from the state budget, will be able to increase their salaries. I hope we can also increase the operating costs. As regards Estonia's 100th birthday, it is true that we are already preparing it. As far as I am aware, the level of expenditure should be planned in several administrative budgets. As far as I know, this amount is not in a single row in the country's budget strategy, but I can also verify and communicate the exact amount to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U75	The second point, Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U76	Thank you. As we know, the recently adopted new state budget law provides for the possibility of planning the budget not on a cost-based basis, as has been done so far, but on a modern basis. The previous government was planning to switch to it. The Ministry of Education and Research prepared the 2015 budget on the basis of the understanding that this budget can be built according to the principle of operational orientation. Will the Interim Government continue this approach and which ministries will switch to today's activity-based planning in the coming years, including next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U77	Thank you. As far as I know, there are no changes planned. You will probably be able to put this budgetary question to the Minister for Finance, who is specifically responsible for this matter. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that perhaps you and your party are already helping in the language and probably in a number of points of discussion about the much-exploited term 'temporary government'. Time will tell how temporary this government will be. I believe that no member of the Riigikogu has any reason to call any member of the government provisional. In Estonia, according to the Constitution and the mandate of the Parliament, there is a government that has a specific mandate. I believe that when you call the Estonian Government temporary, you will feel very well how similar this is to the declaration by Edgar Savisaare, who doubted the validity of the mandate of another government. You and any of your party associates have no reason to doubt the mandate of the government of the Republic of Estonia appointed by the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. This mandate exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U78	Now two issues registered on the spot. First of all, Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U79	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! We would have been able to get much more money into the state budget if we had not given Europe the so-called 'false' information about our poor people. It was published in the newspapers yesterday. We have made this number much smaller, and now we have seven years in Brussels from the European Fund for Aid to the poor considerably less money. The government sent 45000 to the European Commission, but according to Statistics Estonia, we have 115500 people living in absolute poverty and 232,600 people living in relative poverty. Why do we want to make a better impression? Why don't we just say these figures honestly, the way they really are? What minister sent these figures to Brussels, who was the Minister of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U80	Thank you. I think we have already started the debate on the next question, but in a way it is also linked to the budgetary strategy. I therefore have no objection to answering your question already in the context of this issue. First of all, it is not true that Estonia has sent any false information to Europe. I believe that you can get very precise answers from the Ministry of Social Affairs about the figures that Estonia sent there. In Estonia, ministries do not produce statistics, so we have Statistics Estonia. The bill he has published can be used as your Member and can be used by the national authorities. As far as people's livelihoods and poverty reduction are concerned, it is one of the highest priorities of the government that has taken office. We are taking very clear steps to improve the management of families with children. The rise in child support, especially for families in need of public support, is directly linked to reducing poverty and improving coping. These amounts are several orders of magnitude higher than this specific food aid allocation, which can be measured at just over EUR 1 million per year. We are talking here about a hundred times the sums that the government has already decided to allocate to reduce poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U81	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U82	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! You said in response to Mr Reinsalu that good economic policy has brought Estonia success. If you think a good economic policy is that the Estonian economy has shrunk by 1.9%, then good luck to you. I can just tell you that Latvia's economy grew by 2.8%, Lithuania by 2.9% and Sweden by 3.0%. So it was certainly not the warm winter or the electricity that was not sold here; it is a failed economic policy that should be corrected. I have asked the Minister for Finance twice when this year's budget balance will be struck, in the sense that we will not spend more than we have revenue, and when the coalition agreement will be made realistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U83	Thank you. If I could see your or your group's proposals to reduce public budget expenditure, I would certainly be prepared to discuss them. Unfortunately, there have been no such proposals so far. Most of the opposition have also come up with proposals on the current budget, which increase expenditure and make the balance worse. That was the case last time. We have had these discussions together several times here, but unfortunately, proposals that would improve the state budget have not come too far. However, as far as the economic situation in the first quarter is concerned, I don't think you were in the Chamber at the moment we discussed this issue and talked about the causes of the recession. I wouldn't iron too much on this subject. I think that there is a reason for everyone to keep a close eye on the economic situation, but there is no need only to look at this one figure, but there is still a reason to look at what is behind it. Warm winter is a fact, it affected, certainly affected, but it doesn't give rise to the full effect. It was also affected by the fact that it is much more important and raises much more concern about the fact that it is much more difficult to export to Finland, Sweden and also Russia. Although several economic sectors in Estonia were doing very well in the first quarter, unemployment decreased significantly and wages grew very rapidly, it worries me that some sectors, such as energy and some of transit, went badly in the first quarter, and so badly that the whole picture was affected. However, once again, do not iron it and try to see the content behind this number.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U84	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Prime Minister and ministers, thank you for your response. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U85	Good fellows, good afternoon. We will begin the 14th working week session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U86	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Just now, in Question Time, I asked the Prime Minister that Estonia has provided the European Fund with reduced data on the number of our poor people. That is why we will receive much less money from the Fund for the next seven years than we could get. Let me give you an example. The Minister for Social Affairs of the previous government and the current Prime Minister, Taavi Rõivas, presented the number of 45000 poor people, taking into account only those receiving income support. But there are 115500 people living in absolute poverty in Estonia and over 232000 people still living in relative poverty. The Prime Minister said that the correct figures will be presented and used by the Statistical Office. That's what I use. We also recall the scandal that exploded in the newspapers yesterday. That is how I will make a question to the Prime Minister on behalf of the Group. We are interested in why the number of poor people was lied down and why we must give up such a great amount of money. Is it because we want to show that we are better and prouder than we really do not need help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U87	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing. Now, let's do the presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U88	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for silence in the hall! Please report to Andrus Saare, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 February 2014. According to the draft, the procedure for informing temporary employment is simplified, which a person must undergo if he or she wishes to take up a regulated post or profession in Estonia on a temporary basis when coming from a foreign country. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 9 April. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 23 April. The Committee on Culture prepared the second reading on 5 May and decided to put the draft on the 590 agenda by 14 May with a proposal to terminate the second reading. This decision was made in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U90	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? It is. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U91	Good waitress! How many people could be affected by this legislative amendment a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U92	We also asked a representative of the ministry in the Commission. He replied that it now concerns individual people, but it is a rising trend. So there may be a dozen of these people now, but there's probably more from now on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U93	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments have been received to draft law 590. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the first item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U94	Let's move on to the second item. The second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu prepared the second reading of the draft 626 at the meeting on 5 and 12 May. The draft provides for the introduction of a reverse charge on the turnover of all precious metals and precious stones to avoid tax fraud, as fraud is carried out not only on gold but also on precious metals and precious stones. The imposition of a reverse charge on the turnover of gold alone would lead to a exponential increase in the number of other fraud involving precious metals and precious stones. I will give an overview of the questions that were raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and of the issues that were discussed. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 2 May, an amendment was received from the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The proposal also aims to introduce a special VAT regime for metal products. This amendment was discussed in depth by the Commission at its two meetings. The Commission's view was that this issue deserves to be discussed in principle, as one of the priority objectives of amending the Tax Act is to prevent tax fraud in order to ensure fair competition. The Commission noted that there were signals for VAT fraud involving metal used in construction. Consequently, we considered this issue to be important. However, the Commission failed to consider this draft amendment on the basis of additional information received from the Ministry of Finance and the following circumstances. First of all, reverse charge is an exceptional solution used when other measures have not produced results or have been exhausted. The derogation shall be granted where justified by the need. A measure that can be used instead of reverse charge may include, for example, strengthening controls. In the case of precious metals and precious stones, the reverse charge is considered to have a considerable effect. Secondly, VAT fraud on metal products is essentially the same as fraud on other goods. The basic analysis carried out by the Tax and Customs Board does not indicate that the level of fraud in the construction sector of metal products has exceeded the critical threshold. At the same time, an additional analysis of the construction sector will be carried out and it will be possible to move on to the subject once the results have been found. The Ministry of Finance did not currently have an impact assessment on the metal products sector. Before a decision is taken, it is necessary to analyse the proportion of fraud by product, market participant and amount, as well as to examine other accompanying effects and the effectiveness of other measures to prevent tax fraud. In addition, the definition of the object is important and decisive in the case of reverse charge. The metal used in the construction works, with CN codes 72 to 73, which was the subject of the proposed amendment, covers a large number of products. That's a very broad concept. The Combined Nomenclature shall be used only for imports. In order to successfully implement reverse charge, the object needs to be clearly formulated in order to prevent fraudulent movements into other sectors. The Commission also took the view that it was important to enforce the law as soon as possible in order to ensure, as a matter of priority, reverse charge for precious metals. Enforcement requires authorisation from the Council of the European Union. If a request is also made for the reverse charge of new groups of goods, it will not be possible to implement the reverse charge of precious metals at the appropriate time. The remaining questions and comments concerned tax fraud by the dashboard used in construction, the activities of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board in identifying and analysing VAT fraud in the metal products sector, the assessment of impacts, as well as the requirement for free movement of goods and services. Practices in other countries were also discussed, as far as information was concerned, and the issue was raised that the Tax and Customs Board could in the near future present an overview of anomalies in the construction sector and analyse the situation from the point of view of the need for reverse charge. The Commission is certainly planning further discussions and meetings on VAT issues. We took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda by today, 14 May (this was a consensus decision), and to propose that the second reading be terminated (by 6, 2 against, 3 abstentions). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U96	Thank you. You have questions. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Your report stated that the tax administration does not yet consider the reverse charge of metals to be necessary because the amount of fraud has not reached the critical limit. I wonder why the tax authorities expect some critical limit for all kinds of tax fraud, so that almost everyone is already cheating, before they want to do anything about it. We remember the same thing about fuel. This was discussed for three years before we made a legislative amendment here in the Riigikogu, which largely laid a hand on fuel fraud. Why can't we make changes as soon as the signals are here and there's a problem? But we're expecting some kind of critical limit, so it's 50% or 80%. Why can't we act operationally when it is known that there are tax frauds in this or another area?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U98	Thank you. Tax fraud is, of course, a broader issue. Rather, they are organised crime. VAT fraud is usually cross-border and a whole range of parties are involved. Some carry out fraud directly, others organise it. There are features of organised crime, documents being forged and tanks used. It's a wider subject. The construction sector, and specifically the group of metal products, is certainly also an area where fraud is committed. But the analysis by the Tax and Customs Board shows above all that it is the field of precious metals that needs urgent intervention, because here, one can say, it is easier to commit VAT fraud, because the quantities are smaller. Organised crime has, for some reason, taken precious metals into its own interest, as shown by the analysis. But I still recommend not to cause panic as if we are not dealing with this issue. I'm sure we will. We are already dealing with this in the short term, that is the position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Finance Committee asked the Tax and Customs Board to carry out a more in-depth analysis of this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U99	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U100	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! At the meeting of the Monetary Commission, the representative of the Ministry of Finance failed to provide figures on the number of tax frauds taking place in the different product groups, but he said that the analysis has shown that the precious metals and precious stones sector in particular should be subject to reverse charge. Do you not think that the Ministry of Finance should come with figures from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and that the Commission would then be able to decide for itself which sector should be subject to reverse charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U101	That's what we wanted for further analysis. I dare doubt whether the Commission has enough resources to decide, instead of the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration, which groups of goods or areas will be subject to reverse charge. We should still use experts from the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance here. However, we are providing a political guide to tackle tax fraud more effectively. We also have contacts with stakeholders, of course, and the Commission has received letters from businesses. As a result, we will certainly focus on the activities of the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration. We're still working with the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board. I also did not understand during the Commission's debate that the Ministry of Finance would have anything against further analysis and presentation to the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U102	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You just described how we had this debate in the committee. You said they were asking about the practice of other countries, and then your sentence sounded like it was explained to us there. I do not recall having mentioned a country in the Commission and having commented on something in accordance with the laws of that country. Would you not remind me of the countries from which the representative of the Ministry of Finance told us in the Commission about the experiences of which countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U104	I was a questioner myself, and I can say that a representative of the Ministry of Finance gave an example that there is a practice where not construction materials or metal products are taxed, but a reverse charge is levied on construction services. This example exists in the European Union. What country it was in, it doesn't ring a bell right now, but there's a practice. In fact, here too, we could also analyse the experience gained from the reverse charge of the construction service.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U105	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! There are companies that trade virtual gold. As the price of gold changes on the stock market, it is possible to make a profit by buying and selling virtual gold or, on the contrary, to gain a loss. But the question is, is this virtual gold, which has nothing to do with the actual metal, is of the same status as gold material in the meaning of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U107	Thank you. That was a specific question. I think that this is rather a financial service and does not fall within the scope of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U108	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! In fact, the Committee on Monetary Affairs had mixed views on the possible reverse charge of metal products. On the one hand, it was not such a topical issue that it should be dealt with now. At the same time, a year-old article was also quoted in the Commission, which stated that, for example, more than 40% of the building armature is currently predicated, we call it, out of tax revenue. The money's going somewhere else. Here's the question. Why shouldn't there be a reverse charge on the building structure in the near future? Why has the Tax and Customs Board not done this work before?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U110	Good questioner! We agreed in the Commission that, as soon as possible, the Commission will provide an overview of what is happening in the construction sector, and we will address this issue. However, the Commission wanted to move forward on the subject of precious metals. The situation is that if we now include in the bill new items of goods that all need to start applying for a separate European Union permit, we will simply lose valuable time. At present, the issue of precious metals could be moved forward, subject to authorisation by the Council of the European Union from the Commission and to reverse charge in this area. This will not prevent other groups of goods from being further dealt with in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U111	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the meeting of the Commission, the representative of the Ministry of Finance was unable to provide any figures on the breach of this critical limit. He also said that this data did not exist and was based on other analyses. In my opinion, such decisions should still be based on figures and should be known to the Commission. Do you agree with me that the topicality or inactivity of the subject should be supported by figures from the Ministry of Finance? Today we buy like a pig in a bag.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U113	As regards the present draft and the precious metals sector, this analysis has been carried out and it has become apparent that there is a justified need to take control of this area. If we did not have this justification, the European Commission would not grant us permission. But when it comes to other areas, such as metal products, it is certainly possible to obtain these figures because they exist. The Tax and Customs Board can order aggregated VAT returns by sector, for example. We are not receiving individual company declarations, but we are receiving aggregated data on the sector, as well as aggregated control data, as well as other statistical data on one sector or another. I don't think there's a problem with that. Moreover, the share of the shadow economy has been assessed by the OECD. So these tests are real. I think there are no problems with that, and we will certainly find out the figures that are needed for our further work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U114	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U115	Good manager! Good waitress! The development plan of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board for 2013-2016 sets a major strategic objective to reduce the proportion of unfair economic activity. One way to reduce the number of tax fraud is to reverse taxation, which avoids VAT being paid to the seller or supplier. We know that the biggest issue in the construction sector is on the metal side, but we are not going to debate this issue and do not want to accept this proposal in this Chamber. At the same time, last week, we passed the 1000-euro Billing Act as a trick and added a year-round cost of 40 million euros to the entire business sector. But why don't we make a change here if the costs in this small sector were low, but it would be much easier to get the tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U116	The 1000 euro Declaration Act was initiated by the government when the IRL ministers were there. This draft was supported during the debate. I myself was present in the government when the draft declaration of EUR 1000 was discussed for the first time. There were also ministers from your party. I had come from the Riigikogu as an observer and I can say that there was no opposition from members of your party. I would remind you that this law was passed with your votes in favour, although the President did not declare it, yes. So your views are not very consistent. However, as far as reverse charge is concerned, this may be one measure in the Tax and Customs Board's strategy to prevent tax fraud, but it is certainly not a miracle tool of any kind. This is still an exceptional measure for certain groups of goods. This is not a universal effect, as it is always possible to replace groups of goods when fraud is committed. It is also difficult to define groups of goods at law level. That is why it is still applied to a limited extent in the European Union, and every time it is done, the European Union must be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U117	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I would not dwell on the 1000 euros because it is not today's issue. I note so much that in January we jointly decided that we should amend this law. The alternative would have been to send it back to the President unchanged. The amendments that were made were not such that it would have been certain that this law would be adopted again at third reading. But with this draft amendment to the VAT Act, I see a symptomatic tendency. On a number of laws, we need to ask the European Commission's opinion: we needed an opinion on the VAT treatment of cars, and now we need an opinion on the gemstones. The European Commission's opinion is important and it will take time to get it. You have now just foreseen a longer entry into force of the law in January 1st 2015. Do you not think that we should separate from this part of what is important in asking for an opinion and come back to it once we have received the European Commission's permission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U119	I don't think there should be any obstacles to the precious metals. But why is such a procedure even in place? VAT has been harmonised in many respects in the European Union, as it has a direct impact on the movement of goods and services, on the prices of goods and trade between Member States. We must accept these rules because they are common market rules. That's why these procedures are necessary. But I had the impression, at least from the Commission's discussion, that the Ministry of Finance has been able to justify the need for the reverse charge of precious metals in a comprehensive and proper manner and that we should not have problems obtaining this authorisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U120	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U121	Thank you. Good waitress! I just want to make it clear that I did not support this draft in December and that I do not support it now. The majority of our party did not support this at the time either. But they pressed the green button simply for the reason that it was planned to adopt the state budget on the same day and that if the law had not been adopted, the state budget could not have been adopted either. But my question is about something else. Have you analysed how much tax on precious metals and construction metals are expected to be lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U122	We are currently working on a draft VAT law here. We are not talking about income tax, we are talking about VAT. This order of magnitude for precious metals was EUR 7 million per year. Yes, you may not have supported this draft declaration of EUR 1000, but your party's ministers supported it in consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U123	Let's just take it easy from here. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good front speaker! You mentioned, when speaking about the Central Party amendment, that the critical limit has not been exceeded. Did you discuss in the Commission what this critical limit should be for different products, or did you not get this far with the Commission's discussions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U125	Thank you for your question. I am certainly not the evaluator of this, nor do I have the resources to evaluate it. It was the tax and customs department's assessment that the Ministry of Finance sent us. I think we can rely on these assessments. The Committee on Monetary Affairs itself hardly has the resources for more accurate assessments. But we're definitely coming back to the construction sector. The Ministry of Finance has promised to carry out an additional analysis covering the entire sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U126	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would remind you that laws are passed by the Riigikogu, regardless of what ministers decide. Both you and our ministers decided the same way. I understood that you, too, ignored the sensible attitude and understanding of ministers in order to create a new and better Estonian state. How do you feel about choosing areas where reverse charge is applied and where it is not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U128	Thank you for your question. The first signal or input comes from the Tax and Customs Board. They carry out analyses and look at these sectors a little more closely in their day-to-day inspection work. The analysis of the aggregated data from the verification and the VAT returns shows anomalies. The first signal is that some sector, such as the precious metals sector, has not received VAT for a long time, only to be asked back. The analysis by the Tax and Customs Board is what we can rely on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U129	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U130	Thank you. I'm still trying to get a little bit more into this conversation. If in the Commission you are discussing critical boundaries or VAT changes, whatever the form of these figures are and whether they come from the Tax and Customs Board or the Ministry of Finance, the question is still what numerical limit might be in front of which could be seriously addressed. Is it half a million euros, two million euros or ten million euros? Or would it make no sense to deal seriously with this issue in certain sectors before crossing the EUR 100 million limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U131	Thank you. I do not understand what you are trying to prove, but if you answer your question, it must be said that this sum can be very relative. For example, the total turnover of a sector is EUR 4 million, but EUR 2 million is being recovered, while in some other sectors EUR 2 million is being charged back VAT, but the sector has a turnover of EUR 200 million. Here we need to look at the proportion of non-payment of VAT and the ratio between overpaid VAT, deductible VAT and recoverable VAT. The absolute value may not give a very precise signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U132	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U133	Thank you. If you don't understand, you don't understand. Maybe you can explain to me one more time how the Tax and Customs Department is doing these analyses. When we dealt with this infamous 1000 euro bill and talked about areas such as fuel or construction, the Tax and Customs Board was not prepared to consider the issue of reverse charge, but rather to drive its own shit to create a single system. In the case of precious stones, he is willing to consider it. Looking at your votes, it seems to me that this analysis did not convince you enough. Do you understand how these analyses work and how we can make decisions based on these analyses? That's where they explained it to you, but you came to this big hall and voted differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U134	I am currently unable to describe precisely this methodology to you and especially to add precise figures. I can explain it in a way that, in certain sectors, when the Tax and Customs Board checks, it discovers some kind of fraud. There are also higher risks in the sector where there are more infringements. In addition, the Tax and Customs Board has consolidated VAT returns showing in which sector how much taxable turnover is declared and how much VAT overpaid is declared. These data will be compared and risk areas identified. This check will be carried out at the general level, at the level of the summary of declarations, as well as at the level of the sector already when companies are inspected and generalised. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U135	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U136	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 23 April this year, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises sent a letter to members of the Riigikogu, which found that the fight against tax fraud could be a little more fierce. There were also concrete examples. In view of this letter, we have tabled an amendment which, by using reverse charge, should help to reduce tax fraud, specifically in the construction sector in the case of metal constructions. This was not supported by the Commission. But not because I did not come here, but because the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will not be recorded, it will not be recorded in a verbatim, so there will be no trace of it. But in my opinion, both discussions on this amendment were fantastic. At the first meeting, when we discussed this amendment, the representative of the Ministry of Finance announced that the Ministry would not support it. Then he started giving reasons. The first reason was that the construction of metal structures is a new group of goods. The question arises, of course, what has been used in construction for the last 22 years, whether metal structures have been used by no one until this year. But that's it. The argument was, it's a new trade group. The second argument was that there is no overview of this market. There was some questioning here, too. For example, a member of the Commission momentarily found an article by Äripäev, which gave a fairly precise overview of the use of construction structures and related tax fraud. Anyone interested may view this article, which was published on Äripäev on 11 April 2013. The third reason was said to be lame by the representative of the Ministry of Finance himself. This is because the possibilities of reverse charge are described in the directive and now additional authorisation is needed, but authorisation is also required for precious metals and precious stones. So basically, yeah, that's pretty lame. The fourth recital was that no significant tax fraud was observed by the tax authority. That's the line. After about ten minutes, a representative of the ministry had forgotten what he had said before, and when we started talking about tax authorities again, he already said that it would be necessary to examine the matter and that the tax authorities could carry out an analysis. I mean, on the one hand, it has been observed that there is no problem, but on the other, it was thought that it should be investigated. Where the truth is, you don't know it. As a result of such arguments, it is no wonder that the debate on this amendment was resumed at the next meeting. There was again a representative of the Ministry of Finance who knew exactly what questions had been asked and what information needed to be viewed. But to the question of whether other countries have anything similar... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U137	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U138	...the answer came that he didn't look or know. Then there was a conversation about construction, but it had nothing to do with it. The following two arguments against this amendment are, in my opinion, in the area of humour. The first one sounded like if you start to reverse charge metal products, you start cheating on other things. I mean, the logic is that they're cheating anyway, but if this thing is inverted, they'll find a second way to cheat. It is imagined as a community that together decides where tax fraud can be organised, and when fraud is banned somewhere, they start cheating on other things. Very interesting logic. The final argument was fantastic. Personally, I liked it the most. It sounded like reverse charge would make it harder, and then they said, "When it gets more complicated, it's easier for fraudsters to cheat. ' Let's follow that logic. The reverse charge of precious stones and gold makes it more difficult, the Ministry of Finance itself said so, and that means it's easier to cheat. I do not expect our proposals to be supported, but I came here to talk about how this debate is actually going and on what grounds a decision was taken not to support our amendment. I find it really funny, although somewhat sad, because if we allow the Ministry of Finance to come up with this argument, I can't imagine what a mess there is in this sphere at all. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U139	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let us begin the examination of the amendments. An amendment has been received from the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U140	Let's move on to the third item. The second reading of the Act on the Settlement of Individual Labour Disputes initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on Health and Safety at Work and the Act on the Amendment of Labour Market Services and Benefits Act 580 begins. Aare Heinvee, Member of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the completion of the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work, initiated on 20 January 2014, the Committee on Social Affairs met at two sittings to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading: on 6 and 12 May. Neither the political groups nor the members of the Riigikogu proposed amendments to the draft. During the debate on the draft on 6 May, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose nine amendments. Officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs took part in the substantive discussion of the amendments. Amendment 1 amends the title of the draft. There are two reasons for this. The subject of the draft was the amendment of two laws on health and safety at work and the Act on the Settlement of Individual Work Disputes, but the title of the draft contained only one amendment. Secondly, there was a need to amend the Labour Market Services and Support Act. The new title is the "Proposal to amend the Individual Labour Dispute Resolution Act, the Health and Safety at Work Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act'. Amendments 2 and 6 are of a technical nature. Amendments 3 and 7 are necessary for clarity. In particular, the term "State database' is not provided for in the draft law. The Public Information Act regulates databases belonging to the national information system. Amendment 4 regulates the use of terms. Amendment no. 5 is linguistic in nature. Amendment 8 complements the draft with the new § 3, which amends the Employment Services and Benefits Act. The Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, adopted on 27 March 2014, amended the text and paragraphs of § 18 of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and in this context it is necessary to replace the reference to § 18 (7) by a reference to paragraph 9 of the same section. Paragraph 18 (9) provides for the reimbursement of wage subsidies unduly paid for labour market support or spent for the provision of labour market services. Amendment 9 introduces an entry into force clause in the draft. The amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act annexed to § 3 of the Bill should enter into force as soon as possible. Now I am talking about procedural decisions and proposals. The Social Affairs Committee decided at its meeting on 6 May to put the draft on the agenda for the second reading of the Riigikogu plenary session on 14 May and proposed that the second reading be stopped. At its meeting on 12 May, the Committee on Social Affairs approved the draft second reading procedural documents and decided that, once the second reading of the draft was completed, a third reading and a final vote would be taken on 21 May. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U142	Thank you! There's a question for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U143	Good manager! Good waitress treasure! You explained the suggestions for improvement to us very well and read them out. Does it not seem to you that situations have often arisen in the Riigikogu to come with a button, but then the ministry officials want to bring more jacket with a proposal for improvement? The title was changed, then suddenly it became clear that the law adopted on 27 March had some figures wrong, that they should be corrected quickly, otherwise something might be missing. How do you feel about having a jacket first and getting a button on it or sewn a button on it with a proposal for improvement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U144	Thank you. I think this is a very good question, because I believe that the legislator is the Riigikogu. No matter what comes to Riigikogu committees or this hall, it is always the responsibility of the Riigikogu. But in this draft, this button to jacket relationship does not apply quite well, because the main content of this draft was still additional IT developments and new databases. Rather, it was a minor correction under the button.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U145	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the 580 amendments to the draft. Nine amendments have been received from the lead committee: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth and the ninth. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading of draft law 580 has been completed and the third item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U146	Let's move on to item number four. The second reading of the Act amending the Act on Medicinal Products and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, begins. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The first reading of the draft law amending the Act on Medicines, the State Fees Act and the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Social Affairs Committee was completed on 24 April. The deadline for submitting amendments was 30 April. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. The Government of the Republic supported the draft and the proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The opinion on the draft was given by the Chancellor of Justice, the Auditor General, the Association of Estonian Pharmacists, the Association of Estonian Pharmacists, and Yliopiston Apteekki OÜ. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 22 April. The Chancellor of Justice and representatives of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Office of the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Medicines Agency, the Competition Board and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were present. In the light of the opinions of the Government of the Republic, the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office, the Social Affairs Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency, proposed amendments to the draft. The draft and amendments were discussed at the meeting of the Commission on 5 May with representatives of stakeholders. Representatives of the Estonian Association of Pharmacists, the Estonian Association of Pharmacists, the Estonian Association of Pharmacists, the OÜ Euroapteek and Yliopiston Apteekki OÜ participated in the meeting. Representatives of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Medicines Agency and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice also participated in the session. The Commission discussed amendments at its meetings on 6, 8, 12 and 13 May. All decisions on amendments were taken by consensus. Let us now go to the amendments. Amendment 1 clarifies the introduction of the regulation of the so-called mobile structural unit of the pharmacy bus as a general pharmacy. This is an additional opportunity to provide pharmacy services alongside distance sales of medicinal products in places where access to medical assistance is lacking. At the same time, the pharmacy bus can be started on the initiative of the general pharmacy or, for example, in cooperation with local authorities. From now on, it cannot be excluded that certain pharmacies will be subject to such an obligation. This restriction on the establishment of branch pharmacies is removed, so that one general pharmacy may have up to three branch pharmacies. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this violated the principles of Article 16 of the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation. Amendment 2 stipulates that branch pharmacies can only be established in smaller towns and rural areas. Haruapteek is a pharmacy with reduced qualifications for premises and professionals. Reduced requirements are justified for action in rural areas and smaller cities, but not in larger cities. The amendment harmonises the requirements for pharmacies located and established in larger cities. As Estonia's cities and towns within the municipality are of different sizes, the border has been set for 4,000 inhabitants. According to this limit, branch pharmacies will continue to be allowed to operate in eight small towns and 12 single cities. Geomedia, a research company, carried out a study "Supporting the availability of land pharmacy service by local governments' in 2013. The study showed that the profitability threshold for the main pharmacy is about EUR 150000 net, which in turn relates to a service area of at least 2500 inhabitants. The profitability threshold may be higher in settlement units located close to the county centres as part of their functional area. The threshold for the number of residents set at 4000, below which the establishment and maintenance of a branch pharmacy is also permitted, allows the promotion of quality standards for pharmacy services in pharmacies established in larger settlement units and, at the same time, reduced requirements to support the availability of pharmacy services in smaller establishments. Branch pharmacies operating in larger cities so far will be given a sufficient transitional period of five years. Amendment 3 gives the General Pharmacies the opportunity to manufacture medicinal products other than medicinal products for medical and hygiene purposes. So far, pharmacies have only had the right to sell these products. Since many pharmacies also have the means to manufacture such products as a result of their obligation to manufacture medicinal products, there is no reason to prohibit the manufacture of other medicinal and hygiene products in general pharmacies, provided that this does not impede or delay the manufacture of medicinal products. Amendment 4 relates to the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which will enter into force on 1 July 2014, and therefore changes to the Pharmaceutical Act are also necessary. Amendment 5 aims to give the general pharmacy the possibility to organise the delivery of medicinal products at the request of the patient who bought medicinal products from the pharmacy. Amendment 6 relaxes the requirements for the establishment of a branch pharmacy in the small islands with permanent residence, which may also motivate the provision of pharmacy services in such areas of low and seasonal demand. As transport connections to small islands are much worse and more uncertain than transport opportunities on the mainland and connections to larger islands, access to medicines ordered online also requires much more time. In order to improve access to medicines, it is appropriate to allow the establishment of a "non-standard" branch pharmacy on the ground. Amendment 7 deletes a restriction on ownership which is not supported by the Government of the Republic. According to the Government, ownership restrictions entail the compulsory transfer of more than 200 general pharmacies (i.e. two thirds of licences, including pharmacists' licences, where one pharmacist has several general pharmacies) to pharmacists, which constitutes such an intense violation of ownership that there should be very clear and compelling reasons for doing so. In the event of the sale of more than 200 pharmacies, there should be just as many pharmacists willing to become entrepreneurs, have sufficient capital to buy out pharmacies, and are willing to bear the risks of business and, at least, to give up part of the professional work. There is also no analysis of how the compulsory transformation of existing ownership relationships affects the contractual obligations assumed by the company or its owner. Amendment 8 aims to eliminate vertical integration in the pharmacy market, which seeks to improve the competitive situation, which in turn makes it possible to improve access to medicines and the quality of service and to improve the well-being of patients. The draft had proposed to regulate the participation of a private legal person authorised to provide pharmacy services, which would result in the pharmacist having discretion over what is happening at the pharmacy. The mere fact that pharmacists are subject to a pharmacy licence is not sufficient. As a result of the restriction on ownership, the level of retail sales would become extremely fragmented and it is likely that none of the pharmacies would have considerable power to negotiate with wholesalers. The second solution was that § 42 (4) of the Pharmaceutical Act was proposed in the draft, according to which the licence holders of a general pharmacy or veterinary pharmacy may not belong to a wholesale distribution licence holder. As of now, the amendment concerns two wholesale pharmaceutical licence holders: Tamro Eesti OÜ and Globalex Pharma OÜ. Consequently, Amendment 8 provides for the possibility to increase the autonomy and discretion of licence holders of general pharmacies by supplementing the wording of the draft with the concept of dominant influence within the meaning of competition law. The definition of dominant influence under competition law covers the possibilities for one or more undertakings or natural persons to influence another undertaking. The dominant effect is not limited to the fact that one undertaking or a natural person holds a majority or a majority of the voting rights of shares or holdings in another undertaking, but also where a transaction, contract or statute gives those persons the opportunity to exercise real influence over the management of another undertaking. The influence of another undertaking may consist, for example, in law of having a significant influence on the composition, operation or decision-making of the management bodies of the undertaking, or of using and dispose of all or a substantial part of the assets of the other undertaking. The influence on decision-making may consist, for example, in the existence of a veto right in the adoption of certain strategic decisions (including the budget, the choice of the members of the management body of the undertaking or its majority, increased investment, business plan, obligation to market certain specific products, restrictions on ordering goods, etc.). It is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of ways of influencing the second undertaking, which is why the competition law also leaves that list open. The aim of the amendment is to increase the freedom of decision for pharmacies, as well as to allow for a more level playing field for wholesale pharmaceutical companies and new entrants. The creation of competition in the wholesale market for medicinal products would also create prerequisites for the entry and expansion of the range of new medicinal products. According to the amendments to the draft law, the Agency has the right to seek the opinion of the Competition Authority, if necessary, in order to identify the undertakings involved through the dominant influence. This is done when applications for licences for pharmacy services are submitted after the Act enters into force. Existing undertakings with a dominant influence in relation to other undertakings must comply with the requirements on which authorisation is based within three years. Undertakings which have been found to have a dominant influence shall be informed of these facts and shall, during the transitional period, bring their activities into line with the conditions laid down for licence holders of the general pharmacy. For undertakings which have received notification but have not brought their activities into conformity with the requirements of § 42 (5) of the Pharmaceutical Act, the Agency has the right to apply the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act. According to this, it is possible to implement a ban on economic activity by enabling an undertaking to comply with the requirements of its activities. If the undertaking does not do so, the same law allows for the withdrawal of the licence. The transitional period shall be three years. Amendment 9 deletes the restriction on the establishment of a pharmacy, according to which a general pharmacy or a branch pharmacy may be located in a single building at the same time. The Supreme Court has recognised that the restrictions on the establishment of the building are similar to that currently in force as incompatible with the Constitution, which implies that the building restriction may also be contrary to the Constitution. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this restriction is contrary to Article 16 of the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation. Amendment 10 introduces a requirement for the opening time of a general pharmacy to ensure that the pharmacy service is available in larger cities and urban municipalities for at least 40 hours a week. The obligations of the pharmacist's licence holder will also be extended to ensure that each pharmacist is continuously trained. An analogous training obligation is imposed on healthcare providers in the Health Services Organisation Act. The requirement for training pharmacists and pharmacists providing pharmacy services improves the quality of the pharmacy service. Under Amendment 11, a person may not be designated as a competent person if he or she provides pharmacy services in a pharmacy operating under authorisation to provide another pharmacy service, unless the pharmacy is located in a city with less than 4 000 inhabitants or in a city within the municipality or in a settlement unit other than a city or a city within the municipality. In a large part of pharmacies, the head of the pharmacy works only in his own pharmacy and, in his absence, he will be assigned a replacement. The activities of these pharmacies are not affected by the change. Nor does the amendment concern pharmacists whose pharmacy is located in a city with less than 4 000 inhabitants or in a city within the municipality or in a settlement unit other than a city or a city within the rural municipality. The amendment concerns pharmacies operating in larger cities and towns, where the manager works fictitiously or as a "ready worker" elsewhere in the pharmacy. Amendment 12 clarifies the conditions for receiving and returning the initial payment. It can be assumed that the change will generate an additional cost for the state budget of up to EUR 150000. Amendment 13 deletes the implementing provisions of § 41 (2) (4) and 42 (4) and (5) of the Pharmaceutical Act from the draft as § 41 (2) (4) is deleted and § 42 (4) and (5) is amended. Amendment 14 deletes the amendment to the State Fees Act from the draft as the entry of a pharmacy bus as a structural unit of a general pharmacy into the licence of a general pharmacy is covered by section 267 (5) of the State Fees Act (i.e. the addition of a new structural unit). Amendment 15 amends the wording of the provisions of the Health Services Organisation Act. The need to change the wording is due to the fact that the pharmacist and pharmacist are health care workers within the meaning of the Health Services Organisation Act, but they are not healthcare providers within the meaning of the same law. After the amendment has entered into force, pharmacists and pharmacists are health professionals who provide pharmacy services within the meaning of the Pharmaceutical Act. Amendment 16 lays down the procedure for the entry into force of the law. I am now talking about the procedural decisions and proposals of the commission. The Social Affairs Committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 14 May and to propose that the second reading be suspended. This proposal was adopted by consensus within the Commission. Perhaps the question arises as to why this was decided. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 13 May, we decided to seek the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the possible introduction of a temporary regulation for the granting of a licence for a general pharmacy in areas of high demand. We want to develop substantive regulation for the protection of land pharmacies while these temporary measures are in place, to properly assess the effects of the various options and to carry out a proper legal analysis of all planned solutions. The Commission proposes to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 a.m. on 15 May (this proposal was also adopted unanimously) and to send the draft to second reading by 20 May (this proposal was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U148	Thank you. The choice is completely fair and the provisions are not different. 4000 inhabitants are restricted, but if, for example, the city has fewer than 4000 inhabitants, it belongs to a group with fewer inhabitants, and that means that it has exactly the same requirements as other such cities. [[Interjection.]] Viimsi is not one of them, Viimsi is subject to stricter requirements, as there are over 4,000 inhabitants. He'll be treated like a city. [[Interjection.]] Yes, it is. Read the bill exactly! That is why this limit of 4000 inhabitants has been established. [[Interjection.]] It's not too much!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U149	Ladies and gentlemen, one question and one answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U150	So let's find out this provision, and I'll read it. I think it's going to take too long to look because I've got so many papers on me. I'll talk to you in the head. The law clearly states that when it comes to a city with fewer than 4,000 inhabitants, these requirements apply, which generally apply in the municipalities and so on. Branch pharmacies may continue to be established and maintained in municipalities with fewer than 4000 inhabitants. If it is a city or municipality or any municipality with more than 4000 people, then there must be a general pharmacy. The transitional period is five years for pharmacies that are already on the market and are branch pharmacies. Those who enter the market must immediately be general pharmacies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U151	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Let me give you an example of Viljandi. Viljandi's major pharmacies, which are also owned by Viljandi, have branches in the county's smaller attraction centres. Does the Commission have a picture of how many such pharmacies there are already in the counties? These are not pharmacy chains, but a local pharmacy and its branch. Why am I asking that? This shows that, in fact, these branches will certainly not disappear, but will also function with full success after the entry into force of the new law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U153	You mean the structural units of the general pharmacy in rural areas. I can't tell you how many there are right now. I don't have those papers with me. We discussed this in the Commission, but I cannot say exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U154	Thank you. Next question, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U155	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! People are increasingly under the influence of decoy ads coming in through doors and windows. In particular, I would like to mention those ads that come from the netia. Quite a few web pages have emerged from which you can order medicines and not always from legal sources. Medicines are also brought from abroad, there are intermediary companies that do this. In fact, medicinal products with an active substance that cannot be obtained in Estonia are also brought to Estonia. Has the Commission addressed this issue? Does the bill intend to regulate it in any way so as to prevent people from ordering medications that are actually placebo-effects without knowing the problem on the Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U156	Thank you. That's a good question. Yesterday, a journalist asked me if the Social Affairs Committee would support the sale of over-the-counter medicines in shops and other places like this. I replied that I personally liked the idea. On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, I will not speak here, I speak for myself. But in fact, experts have made it very clear that if you go to the store and buy Theraflu and Sudafed together, for example, no one will tell you anything, but if you buy them at the pharmacy, you will be explained their interaction. However, we cannot control the Internet. What a person orders on the Internet will be delivered to his home, and it could be anything. In Estonia, you should still go to the pharmacy and buy medicines there, which is a sure thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U157	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U158	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Can you comment on the number of pharmacies in the country by county? How many pharmacies are there in some county? As far as I know, the counties are in quite a different state. Do you have the statistics and how do you comment on it? I hear the University Pharmacies have promised to create new pharmacies for the country. Maybe you have a comment on that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U159	Indeed, that is a very good question. In the Commission too, the representative of the University Pharmacy promised to create and do many pharmacies for the country. I asked why they haven't done it so far, and the answer was they're gonna do it. There was nothing to do with that answer. But the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has commissioned a survey "Supporting the availability of land pharmacy service by local governments." According to turnover, the research firm divided the land pharmacies into three types: unsustainable, endangered and sustainable. As a conclusion, the research company said that in the current economic conditions and subject to the restrictions in force, there may be only 50.60 sustainable rural pharmacies in Estonia; the rest are either endangered or unsustainable. This study estimates that the sustainability threshold should be 2500 inhabitants on the customer base and a net turnover of over EUR 100000. I think we need to rethink the measures that would help keep pharmacies in the country. We just don't have a second chance. The time that we have been able to deal with this issue has been too short, this regulation is not being developed in weeks. We have an agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs that, as soon as we complete this draft procedure, we will have a working group and a draft that goes to the coordination circle, and then we will get some good suggestions from all sides. I hope this thing works.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U160	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The situation of islands differs slightly from that of the mainland, where it is possible to travel to a neighbouring municipality or to a nearby city if there is no pharmacy near the home. The number of people living in the municipalities of the islands is also very different. Does the draft provide for any exceptions in view of the situation in the islands in order to ensure that all medicinal products are available to all islands?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U161	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U162	Thank you, good waitress! You have questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U163	Thank you. Naturally, at the request of the municipality and with the consent of the Agency, a competition will be launched there. However, we have laid down in the draft a separate provision specifically for the smaller islands in order to introduce 'unstandard' requirements there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U164	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This draft and explanatory memorandum all the time emphasise that the land pharmacies will certainly be supported. At the same time, as in the draft law, the point is that every person working at a pharmacy should receive 40 hours of training a year. The average pharmacy has four employees and training days are usually four hours. This means that the pharmacy owner should pay 40 working days a year. The training allowance for family doctors is included in the national bounty. If the state imposes this training requirement, shouldn't it also be able to find training funding? This is the case with family doctors, but why is it not with pharmacists?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U165	I also think that pharmacists, pharmacists and pharmacists need training. In fact, many pharmacists and pharmacists have not been in training for a long time, but requirements are constantly changing and new medicines, methods, medical devices, etc. are coming. They just have to go to training. When we're talking about the health care system, there's a health insurance system. These systems are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U166	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U167	Thank you. Good waitress! When all these amendments are summarised, the problem is that the law in force is contrary to the Constitution. Does the Commission really think that if these changes become a law, the contradiction with the Constitution will have disappeared?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U168	None of the changes that I have read now are against the Constitution, as far as I know. We have had a Chancellor of Justice in the Commission who has said that these amendments are not against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U169	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U170	I have one more question. The restriction on ownership that the pharmacist should be the majority owner of the pharmacy has been removed from the draft. The question arises as to why the status of professional owner is considered impossible in the case of pharmacists, but there are restrictions on family doctors, lawyers, notaries, auditors, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U171	I can't ask you anything right now, but I'd still like to ask you why the pharmacists haven't made themselves a house like the notaries. They would be able to decide everything for themselves, and everything would be completely different. They would regulate their own affairs, no one would impose any restrictions on them, etc. When we're talking about the pharmacist-pharmacist, I used to talk about the 200 pharmacies that should be reorganized, but I also have information about how many pharmacists we have and how much they pay. According to the statistics of the Agency, at the end of 2013 Estonia worked in general pharmacies, including branch pharmacies, 812 pharmacists and 631 pharmacists, and there were 418 employees. Their average salary was 882 euros. I'm just saying, in comparison, that the average salary for family doctors was 1494 euros. If the pharmacist was a pharmacist, in addition to the question of whether he is willing to take risks and whether he even wants to be a pharmacist, the question arises as well as how he buys out the pharmacy. Surely those who have wanted and wished to have at least some participation in the pharmacy already exist. But I very much doubt that with that kind of pay, you can start buying yourself that share. The salaries of pharmacists are about 300 euros higher than the average salary, which depends on the pharmacy, I cannot say exactly, but this salary is still very low.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U172	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U173	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, As a person with medical education, I look forward to the efforts of the Commission. I have unfortunately still not understood what interferes the Commission with the realisation of the Supreme Court's judgment. All these arguments, either made as a ghost to scare or not known that a hundred land pharmacies will be closed, etc., are more lobbying for interest groups, so it seems to me. Perhaps you will briefly explain to me what the Commission's main fear of why this law cannot be adopted quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U174	First of all, I think the Commission is not scared. The most important thing for us is that the pharmacies in the country are preserved so that they do not move to the cities. We have all heard the views that when the market becomes free, pharmacies can move to cities. There should be some regulation either way, and the Ministry of Social Affairs has proposed it. I would point out, for example, that pharmacies, which are located in the city and make profits, could support pharmacies which are located on the land and whose net turnover is perhaps less than EUR 150000. It's been one way. The second option has been that if a new pharmacy licence was applied for, the new company would be obliged to open a branch pharmacy in the country. But these options are in the idea phase, they haven't been put out anywhere. There are a number of aspects that we want to clarify more. I've been chairman of the committee for a few weeks. During this time, we have had very different options on the table, but it has not been possible to weigh them through that time, I say frankly. It is not possible to make a decision or regulation based on sound knowledge here at the moment. We need more time, just to make proper regulation, so that the land pharmacies remain after the market restrictions have disappeared. We also need more time to make the regulation we have proposed work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U175	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U176	Thank you. Good waitress! Even now, pharmacies are closed every year in small places. I would point out that the restrictions you have proposed do not prohibit the closing of any pharmacy, on the contrary, they prohibit the establishment of new pharmacies. I'll ask you more specifically. You've brought out a city and an inner-city population of at least 4,000. But it does create a very unfair situation. In this case, a municipality such as Viimsi, which has more residents than Rakvere, some provisions and other provisions in Rakvere or a smaller city such as Põlva, has different provisions. How do you justify why such a choice has been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U177	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission has tabled 16 amendments to the draft. Let's go through them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the decision of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 5, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 6, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 7, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 8, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 9, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 10, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 11, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 12, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 13, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 14, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 15, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 16, the decision of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Governing Commission proposes that the second reading of draft 615 should be interrupted. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 615 amendments. 15 May at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U178	The next item is the second reading of Draft Act 621 on Amendment to the Veterinary Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other Acts. I would like a speech from Terje Trei, member of the Rural Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of Bill 621 is to amend the Veterinary Organisation Act and related other laws by aligning them with the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities. The current authorisation of a veterinarian becomes the new name of a veterinarian's professional activity permit, provides a basis for the establishment of a register of veterinarians, harmonises terminology and specifies the procedure for granting a professional activity permit to persons who have obtained veterinary qualifications abroad and specifies the state fees to be paid for the examination of an application for a veterinarian's professional activity permit and certificate of professional activity. The changes to the legislation affect in particular the veterinarians operating in Estonia and the persons who intend to act are qualified by the veterinarian, whose administrative burden is reduced and who now have to pay a one-off state fee. The first reading of the bill was completed in this Chamber on 9 April. The deadline for submitting amendments was 24 April. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Commission asked the Estonian University of Life Sciences and the Estonian Society of Veterinarians for an opinion on the draft. The Commission prepared a second reading at its meetings of 22 April, 5 May and 12 May. Representatives of the Estonian University of Life Sciences and the Estonian Society of Veterinarians took part in the meeting on 22 April. Substantial changes have been made to the draft, which will continue to ensure that veterinarians carry out quality work. The representative of the Ministry of Agriculture attended all three meetings. As a result of the discussions, the Commission decided to include five amendments on the list of amendments. The draft text has been agreed with the language editor and minor linguistic and technical improvements have been made. Amendment 1 clarifies the wording for the sake of clarity of content and sets a deadline for the submission of data on professional development. Amendment 2 deletes the words 'at his request'. According to the new provision, a person who has obtained a qualification in a foreign country, i.e. a Member State other than the European Union, a country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area or Switzerland, is required to submit a curriculum in order to obtain a professional licence, as it is the most important document to assess the applicant's qualification against the requirements in force in Estonia and in Europe. According to the original text of the bill, the Food and Veterinary Office should have asked for the curriculum on a case-by-case basis. Amendment 3 specifies that authorisations previously granted will remain valid and remain valid until the expiry date. Amendment 4 complements the technical comment in the light of the European Union directives. Amendment 5 specifies the state fees to be paid for the examination of the application for the authorisation of the professional activities of a veterinarian and the certificate of professional activities. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 14 May. When the second reading is closed, we will have a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda for the third reading on 21 May and to adopt it as a law. All the Commission's decisions were consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U180	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Terje Trei! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The commission had five amendments on the draft, and we will review them. Amendment 1 has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 2 has been fully taken into account. Amendment 3 has been fully taken into account. Amendment 4 has been fully taken into account. Amendment 5 has been fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 621 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U181	The next item is the first reading of draft law 655 amending the Law on trade in animals and animal products initiated by the Government of the Republic and on veterinary supervision of their imports and exports and related amendments to other laws. To present the speech chair, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U182	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The development of a draft law amending the Veterinary Surveillance Act on trade in animals and animal products and their imports and exports and related amendments to other laws is due to the need to bring the law into line with the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act and the Law on Law Enforcement, which will enter into force on 1 July 2014. The legislative amendment replaces the existing legal requirement for the recognition of businesses with the obligation to authorise them. The amendment concerns two areas where non-compliant food or products of animal origin are handled: storage for transit in a free zone, free warehouse and customs warehouse and the supply of animal food by a ship engaged in international transport outside the territorial waters of the European Union. Together with the authorisation obligation, the double recognition that has been in force so far, which was first carried out under the Food and Animal Disease Control Act and then under the Trade Act, will disappear. This Trade Act no longer provides for an autonomous authorisation obligation, but the company must be authorised either under the Law on Disease Control or under the Food Act. The Law on epizootic diseases and the Food Act are supplemented by the type of licence concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U183	Thank you very much. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U184	Thank you. Dear Minister, We're still comparing ourselves to the others. In the light of this bill, are we catching up with the other Member States of the European Union, whether we are behind them or, in some ways, ahead of them? Perhaps also a side question: how will this affect possible exports to Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U185	Thank you. Food control is like a chain with its links. Every link must be very sure. It is one of the links between this food control chain, or food control chain, which deals with non-compliant animal food, or food, which in itself can be very decent and of good nutritional value, but which has no recognition for trading on the territory of the European Union. For example, I can mention food products produced in third countries. Each country must, by its own laws, determine how it behaves with such food, how it stores it, and how it creates the situation that it is available on board ships. It can be written in very different laws in different countries. The principle is important. It is important that this part of the food chain can be controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U186	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Agriculture. Aivar Koka, vice-chairman of the Rural Commission, would you like to give a co-report?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U187	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed draft law amending the Law on trade in animals and animal products initiated by the Government of the Republic and on veterinary supervision of their imports and exports and related amendments to other laws at its meeting on 5 May. We had been invited to visit Pille Tammemägi, Deputy Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, to whom members of the Commission actively asked questions. He also provided exhaustive answers. The development of the draft 655 is due to the need to bring trade in animals and animal products, and the veterinary supervision of their imports and exports into line with the Law on the General Part of Economic Activities and the Law on Law Enforcement. The major changes are due to the replacement of the approval requirement by an authorisation requirement and the distinction between national supervision and administrative control. The draft also specifies deadlines for the notification of consignments of animals and animal products. Decisions were also taken at the meeting of the Commission. We proposed that draft 655 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 14 May, or today (consensually) and appoint me rapporteur. We decided to consensually make proposals to stop the first reading of draft 655 and set ten working days for the submission of amendments, as provided for by the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. This decision was also taken in a consensual manner. We did not decide, as we have just heard before, that a draft should be proposed by 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U188	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U189	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, My question comes from your senior rapist. Why did you decide to allow ten working days to table amendments to this draft? One night was allowed to make proposals for the draft medicine law. Perhaps the quality of this draft is so bad that it is done in haste and at night.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U190	In my opinion, it is good practice in the Riigikogu that at least ten working days should be allowed to propose amendments. The fact that there is only one night for some drafts means that they do not want to negotiate with the parties that are actually going to be affected by this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U191	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 655 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. May 28th, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U192	Agenda item 7 is the first reading of the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U193	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The development of a draft law amending the Food Act is due to the need to ensure the implementation of the obligations under European Union law in two areas: the provision of food information to consumers and specific foods. In addition, it is necessary to update the terms of reference on which the legislation is based by granting the power to introduce legislation to the Minister of Agriculture instead of the Government of the Republic. In particular, this is due to the concentration of food legislation and supervision in the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture. With effect from 13 December 2014, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending food labelling requirements and repealing several Directives of the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council will apply. Consequently, the provisions of the law that duplicate the directly applicable regulation are amended. Regulation No 324 of the Government of the Republic which has so far regulated the labelling of foodstuffs "Provisions for food labelling and procedures for labelling and other communication of information' is repealed. Although, to a large extent, the existing labelling requirements remain the same, the Regulation also contains important new requirements. Examples of the most important new labelling requirements are: First of all, the sales package must have a characters size of at least 1,2 mm in case the mandatory information is provided. Secondly, in the case of meat products sold as cuts, portions or fried pieces, and meat preparations (including fishery products and preparations), the food name must state the water content if the added water represents more than 5% of the weight of the final product. Third, when sold melted, the name of the food must indicate'melted' on the label. Fourthly, ingredients that may cause allergies should be highlighted in the list of ingredients using font style, font size or background color. In the case of unpackaged foods, the list of ingredients that may cause allergy must be made available at the point of sale. The new point is that this requirement now also applies to the dishes offered by Estonian catering companies. The ingredients that cause allergy may include, for example, milk due to lactose, wheat flour gluten, nuts, eggs, fish, etc. Fifth, as from 13 December 2016, the nutrition declaration, i.e. the energy content of the food, the amount of fats, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, sugars, proteins and salt, is mandatory on the labelling of packaged foods. In addition to the above-mentioned directly applicable Regulation, a second directly applicable Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. Regulation on foods for infants and young children, food for special medical purposes and total diet replacement for weight control, will apply from 20 July 2016. At present, the concept of "special foods' is broader and more general, covering not only the abovementioned categories of foods but also other foods intended for people with different nutritional needs. Under that new Regulation, the concept of "special foods" becomes narrower, covering only processed foods based on formula, follow-on formula, processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children, other baby foods, diet replacements for weight control and food for special medical purposes. Following its implementation, the Food and Veterinary Office should be informed of the first placing on the market of all foods considered as foods for particular nutritional uses. These foods include infant formula, follow-on formula, processed cereal-based food for infants and young children, other baby food, food for weight control and food for special medical purposes. Currently, only infant formula, food for special medical purposes and foods for which no requirements have been established (e.g. athletes' foods, foods for diabetes) are subject to notification of the placing on the market of foods for particular nutritional uses and the introduction of such requirements is not justified or appropriate. Once the regulation enters into force, the regulations of the Government of the Republic which has so far regulated special food will be repealed. The part of the provision of food information in the draft law will enter into force from 13 December 2014 and the part of the special food from 20 July 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U194	Thank you very much. The question is on Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U195	Thank you. Good colleague! I am pleased to note that the Ministry of Agriculture, probably from inertia, is still working very well today. All the draft laws are very well prepared. But I do have a very specific question. In your report, you said that once frozen food has been melted, you should add "melted" to it. As a consumer, I am now perhaps confusing this food with processed cheese. Has the melted cheese been thawed? How's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U196	Thank you. In this respect, I must acknowledge my predecessor, Helir-Valdor Seeder, and it is undoubtedly his prepared draft. Thank you very much. As far as processed cheese is concerned, it is clearly the case that if the processed cheese has been handled in such a way that it has been deep-frozen and subsequently rendered, it is compulsory to include the indication 'This processed cheese has been rendered'.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U197	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar! For a co-report, I would like to ask Ester Tuiksoo, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U198	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Food Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 21 April. Martin Minjayev, Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, attended a meeting of the Commission, which gave the same overview of the draft as the Minister has already reported here. I'm not gonna say it again. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the questions, because the debate in the Commission was quite exciting. For example, the meeting with the fish farmers had shown that the fish has a "long life' in our trading chains. First, fresh uneaten fish comes on sale, then the same fish is sold gutted, after which the fillet is made, then the same fish is grilled and finally made into a salad or casserole, with a new shelf life for each stage of the product. It asked whether this bill would be regulated so that the consumer would know when the fish came to be sold. A representative of the Ministry of Agriculture said that this problem is very difficult to regulate. In fact, the operator is responsible and he also determines the shelf-life of his product. But he promised to discuss it further. There was also the question of whether the cost of changing the information on the label would be involved and what about using the current labels. The representative of the Ministry of Agriculture replied that there would be 18 months to replace labels and no direct additional costs. There was also the question of whether the draft concerns labelling and specific labelling of products containing GMOs. As regards GMOs, it was answered that it was covered by the GMO Regulation. If the product contains more than 0.9% of the GMO, it must definitely appear on the label. Perhaps it is important that the draft law provides the basis for regulating the requirements of voluntary labelling. The Commission has already developed origin labelling for packaged meat. It is now mandatory for beef, but it is intended to be extended to poultry, pig, sheep and goat meat. But the idea is still being worked on. Such labelling would lead to a price increase of up to 30% and it is considered that it is still not suitable for the consumer. The reason for the price increase is that the raw material is sourced from many suppliers. It was also a question of whether the draft law also regulates the labelling of a private label. It needed to be specified. Finally, the Commission decided to propose that the draft 642 be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 May and that I be appointed rapporteur. We decided to make proposals to stop the first reading of draft 642 and to set the deadline for submitting amendments in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act 10 days, 28 May 2014 at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U199	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Esther Tuiksoo! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 642 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. May 28th, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U200	Our eighth and last item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 654. To present the speech chair, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U201	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act, which changes the Estonian regime towards more flexible governance. I am pleased and honoured to stand before you, to open up the content of the draft and, at the same time, to acknowledge that we are moving back in a direction that is consistent with the spirit of the Constitution and contributes to the development of the state and society. There have been many questions about why this change is coming right now. The reasoning is very simple. After long discussions in the various configurations of the government and Riigikogu, the government is now taking this bold step towards flexibility. This is now the most significant step the country needs to take. This debate actually started right after the Republic of Estonia regained independence. As early as 1992, it was recognised that the system must be more flexible when dealing with the draft Act of the Government of the Republic. One of the main authors of the draft Constitution, Jüri Adams, stated in his amendment to the draft Act of the First Government of the Republic, that the Government of the Republic must consist of a Prime Minister and ministers and that the Prime Minister must be able to influence the composition of the government widely. He said that the amendment would make the system more flexible and that there was really no reasonable justification for the rigidity of the Soviet era. He pointed out that in most countries with similar governance, the Prime Minister would also be left room for manoeuvre within certain limits. This approach has been recommended to us from outside Estonia. This was done by the OECD, which stated in its 2011 report that Estonia would aim to reduce the barriers to government agility and increase the flexibility of government administration. The OECD considered that in a changing economic and social environment, government and public authorities must be prepared to respond to complex policy issues. This is the understanding shared by the government. We believe that flexibility allows for a better response to complex policy issues. I note in particular that this is not the first and last recommendation from the OECD report, the implementation of which is worth considering seriously. This can be seen as an example of a reform of the public service in the past. A single competent authority has now been designated to carry out and develop this service. This recommendation was also in the OECD report. The aim of the draft is to move towards a more flexible system, in a way that ensures flexibility on the one hand and limits the government on the other. The biggest change towards more flexible governance is precisely that the Government of the Republic Act no longer contains a list of ministers. However, we do not want to interfere with the list of ministries already established by law within the framework of the draft. Ministries remain in place, but the appointment of ministers and the division of these tasks are becoming much more modern. This is necessary to allow for faster adaptation to the changing social, political and economic situation, and provides an opportunity for closer cooperation between policies. Now I will be more specific about the substance of the bill. The aim of the draft is to make governance more flexible. One way to do this is to give the Prime Minister a broader mandate in the formation of a government. Under the changes, the Prime Minister determines, by means of his order, the competence of the Minister under the direction of the Ministry and the responsibility of the Minister. The order must specify the competence and specific responsibilities of the ministers by area of government of the ministries governed by law. Under the Prime Minister's orders, all areas of government should therefore be covered. In addition, when proposing to the President of the Republic, the proposed composition of the government of the Prime Minister's candidate must show the division of responsibilities. In order to achieve this, the title of each future minister must indicate its area of competence and responsibility. As I mentioned earlier, the Ministry's draft does not create more, but in one ministry there may be several ministers who are equal in ministerial and sectoral management. An example is the possible organisation of work of the Ministry of Social Affairs, where one minister is responsible for work and health matters and the other for social affairs. Both ministers have their own responsibilities, for example, by issuing regulations and setting out policy orientations. Both ministers are also politically responsible for their own area and should not interfere unduly in each other's fields. Flexibility cannot, however, be without restrictions. The principle that there are no more than 15 members of the government would clearly remain in force in the Government of the Republic Act. I note that there are currently 14 ministers in the government. Nor will the limit on the reduction of the number of government members laid down by law disappear. The text of § 4 of the Government Act is unchanged. The law clearly states that the President of the Republic may, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, appoint two ministries to chair a minister. We have 11 ministries in total, so even with the best will, there can be no less than seven members of the government: six ministers and the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister himself cannot run the Ministry either, because the office of Prime Minister and Minister cannot be reconciled. Once the amendments to the Government of the Republic Act enter into force, the current ministers will continue to hold office until the Prime Minister considers it necessary to make amendments. These changes shall not lead to the expiry of the ministerial mandate. If the Prime Minister wishes to change the title or function of a minister, he shall do so by order. The appointment of new ministers is subject to the regulation resulting from the draft Act of the Government of the Republic, according to which the appointment of the Minister must refer to the competence and responsibilities of the Minister and the responsibilities of the Minister shall be determined by the order of the Prime Minister. Thus, for example, in order to appoint a Minister for Labour and Health, the Prime Minister should present the name of the candidate to the President of the Republic with this title. The Act also provides for the abolition of the Institute of the Minister of Aid. The role of the Minister of Aid under the direction of the Ministry has been unclear and in practice the Assistant Ministers have carried out the duties of political advisors. As a general rule, ministers have not employed assistant ministers, but each minister has political advisers. Currently, there is no assistant minister in any ministry; in the past, aid ministers have been used in a few cases. In essence, the Minister's advisers perform the duties of Assistant Minister. I also note that the law amends the right to regulation. In the future, it will no longer be stated in the law that the regulation will be issued, for example, by the Minister of Justice, but by the Minister responsible for the field. The regulations are publicly visible to everyone in the State's Official Journal. There is a link and the citizen will certainly find the right regulation. Finally, I highlight the government's proposal to process the draft further during the spring session of the Riigikogu and to enforce the law in general order. This desire has nothing to do with the wish to legitimise ex post the activities of an already appointed government. Absolutely not. The current government is acting clearly within the limits set by the legislator. We have two so-called "portfolioless ministers" in our position, acting on the basis of the tasks set out in the Prime Minister's order. They do not independently run the Ministry, they do not issue regulations or do anything else that is not allowed to them. Our clear desire is to create opportunities to ensure that the government operates effectively. We wish to show in the current government that changes are not only useful but also necessary. If the legislator gives this opportunity, then the current composition of the government can prove how effective flexibility can be. We could also set the way for future formations of government to develop a clear practice of governance and to make thoughtful decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U202	Thank you! Now, please, questions! Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U203	Thank you. Dear Minister, As the Minister of Justice certainly knows, according to good legislative practice, the law must be unambiguous and easy for everyone to understand. I understood that all existing legislation is now withdrawing the official titles of specific ministers. However, citizens may have questions; they find it difficult to understand which minister is responsible for one or the other subject. You said that responsibilities would be established by the Prime Minister, but it is not that simple. Take, for example, some spatial data. You know very well that there are issues that fall within a number of areas. It may be difficult for ordinary people to understand what kind of ministerial responsibility they need to look for one subject or another. Is it really going to be the case that a person has to compare a number of laws in order to understand what kind of minister's area is, for example, spatial data?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U204	Thank you for your question. There are several aspects. I also said in my speech that, as we know, our laws are available in electronic form. In essence, only in electronic form they are available; we no longer have the State Gazette issued on paper. This means that if there is a law that has delegated the power to issue a regulation to a minister in a field, that link already exists there. I think the most important thing for a citizen is the content of the regulation, because he may need to know very clear guidelines on how to act. The guidelines may be more general in the law. That's one side of it. Another thing, as I emphasised in my presentation, is that the ministries and their spheres of government are not changed by the draft law of the Government of the Republic. There may be two ministers in this field in the Ministry, but the regulations under law are signed by the respective minister, for example the Minister of Labour and Health at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Since the following governments may make other divisions in ministries and other ministers may be employed, it is not appropriate to state in law other than the Ministry and add a link to the Minister for the relevant field.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U205	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U206	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, In part, I have already received an answer to my question. You have confirmed that the list of ministries will not be changed. But it still didn't make sense that if there are two ministers in one ministry, let's say, what happens to the apparatus and departments of this ministry. If, for example, the departments and deputy chancellors were previously subordinate to one Minister for Economic Affairs, are they now going to take part in another minister? Or we could take the simplest things, like letter forms. Are some departments using the same paper forms and others different? How this is going to happen in practice is, in my opinion, unclear at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U207	Thank you for your question. There is certainly no ideal law in the legal space of the world that can foresee all things that can happen in practice. As many scenarios as possible have been played in creating this bill. I'll give you an example. There is also a model arrangement for the Prime Minister, let's say. With those ministries run by a minister, there's no question. But it says, for example, 'The Minister of Economics and Infrastructure is headed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications... ' And then the areas he leads are listed. As a next step, we will undertake one of the most important documents on the day-to-day organisation of the ministry, namely the Ministry's Statute. This is precisely the document in which the relationship of jurisdiction must be established by structural units. The Statute of the Ministry shall also be established by the Government of the Republic in accordance with the procedures in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U208	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U209	Thank you. I would like to begin by saying that the expression 'leading Chancellor' was a language glitch, because the ministry, of course, is run by a minister. The Chancellor arranges the ministry's day-to-day work. I fixed that idea right away. Please forgive me! As far as values are concerned, I'm in a different position than you are. For example, let us talk about the Minister for Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship. We live in a rapidly changing world. Foreign trade is one of the foundations of our economy. If our foreign markets change and they do so relatively quickly, then it is the task of the Minister of Foreign Trade to shape the Estonian state's policies on economic issues, to look for new partners, etc. I think that if the world changes quickly, the Government of the Republic should also have the opportunity to change quickly. I would stress once again that the need to make government work more efficient has not been invented by the current government. In order for Estonia to have such a government working arrangement, the OECD also emphasised several years ago. This is one of those shortcomings or weaker places under the leadership of the Estonian state, which has been brought to the attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U210	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U211	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I certainly don't envy you. It has been difficult for you to put on paper what was invented in the coalition negotiations one morning and, as your party partner Eiki Nestor said, they tried to formalize the evening. That's a good idea and we'll try to make it happen. Maybe a few more requests for an explanation. My question is on a subject that has already been talked about quite a bit. This concerns the relationship of jurisdiction with the Chancellor as one of the leading state officials. I would like to take the example of the Ministry of the Interior, where the chancellor was clearly subordinated to a minister, the Prime Minister, and with the Minister of Regional Affairs, the staff had their subordinate relationships. How will the new approach resolve this fundamental question of which minister is subject to the Secretary-General and who, for example, will propose to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to appoint the Chancellor or dismiss him?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U212	Thank you. The Ministry of Life and Work of the Chancellor as one of the most important officials of the Ministry, a description of his duties, as well as the possibilities of fulfilling them, are again included in this heading, which should be described very clearly in the Ministry's Statute. Once again, the Ministry's statute is an act of the Government of the Republic, an administrative act that organises the activities of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U213	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I recall that the IRL was the party that created the assistant ministers and who manned them. I have understood that this draft, which you are currently presenting, is not about creating or losing jobs, but is primarily about making the governance of the country more flexible. This is how things have been organised in Finland, Sweden and a great many other Member States of the European Union. Is there any way I misunderstood this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U215	Thank you. I'm sure it isn't. I, too, have understood this bill, and in exactly the same direction, I have led the Ministry to develop this draft. I would like to stress once again that this bill was not born anywhere but in the Ministry of Justice, by the fine officials of the Ministry of Justice. I can only agree with you that the appointment of assistant ministers really was a human resources project. I don't dare say for all of them there may have been three of them at all, but at some point, several of them became State Secretary of the Ministry. Maybe with this political input, they've gotten a job, becoming an executive official at the Ministry, let's say. We are now implementing, also on the basis of international proposals, the reform of the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia in order to make it more flexible. The world is changing faster and faster every day, and the executive must also have the opportunity to get along quickly with these processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U216	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U217	It seems to me that this most remarkable achievement of your draft is not that you are losing posts that have not been filled for years. But if someone thinks it's outstanding, of course it can be highlighted. My supplementary question concerns the organisation attached to the draft, which sets out the areas of responsibility. I'm going to question for clarity. Am I right to understand your answers to the questions that you will retain all the current areas of competence of the ministries, which are set out in the Government of the Republic Act, and you will essentially reshape ministers by order of the Prime Minister? After all, this means that in the future it will be possible for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to lead the structural units in the Ministry of the Environment, the Minister of Education in the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Justice in the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U218	Thank you. I'll tell you in a minute, it's not. To make sure of this, it is worth looking at paragraph 3 of the draft, which states very clearly in the second sentence that the title of the Minister must refer to the competence and responsibilities of the Minister. This also puts very clear restrictions on the use of some vague titles. It is also clear from this arrangement that when we talk about, for example, the activities of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this is directly related to the design of economic and infrastructure policy. So that's the kind of threat we've foreseen in the bill and mitigated the risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U219	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U220	Thank you. Dear Minister, In accordance with § 94 (2) of the Constitution, a single ministry can be managed only by one minister, acting alone and with sole responsibility under the direction of the Ministry. Similarly, the executive edition of the Constitution from 2008 explains this. This publication specifically emphasises that the so-called "second minister' of the Ministry, a minister appointed on the basis of § 94 (4) of the Constitution, who is not in charge of the ministry, may not make regulations in accordance with the Constitution. Also, the so-called second minister does not have the right to issue letters of order. This means that a minister who does not run a ministry cannot carry out administrative procedures either. However, the draft provides for the possibility of appointing two or more ministers with more management powers to one ministry. Please tell me if the bill you have submitted is not against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U221	Thank you. I dare say for sure that this bill is not in conflict with the Constitution, although the final constitutional control is not dealt with by the Minister, the Government, or often not by the Riigikogu, but by the judicial authorities. I'll get a couple of arguments. The same question was also one of the topics for the discussion of specialists in the Ministry of Justice when preparing this bill. In fact, singularity is generally used in the Estonian legal area, and linguistic interpretation is always one option for the Constitution. However, an executive edition of the Constitution, for example, speaks of this as a narrow grammatical interpretation of the fact that one minister is unable to run two ministries, while the Constitution gives this opportunity. So here, the principle of separation of powers set out in the Constitution and the fact that the executive power has been given the constitutional opportunity to organise this power must be taken into account. There is no text to suggest that the list of ministers should be included in the Constitution. In fact, it must be taken into account that the ministry has divided the areas and that this so-called second minister has not been given the powers of a minister without a portfolio, which is very narrowly defined, but has the right to manage certain areas in one ministry, with all the rights deriving from it, both in terms of regulatory rights and in terms of policy-making rights. So we didn't see a contradiction with the Constitution here at the Ministry of Justice, and we hope it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U222	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U223	Thank you. It really refreshes the senses that the Ministry of Justice was unable to see possible contradictions with the Constitution. But it's empty of this constitution! In my opinion, relatively clear practical problems arise here. What are the areas that the new ministers are going to lead? Who will determine the areas within the ministries to which the Chancellor will be subject and who will be responsible for drawing up the budget if the Ministry should have more than one minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U224	Thank you. Let's start from the beginning. What was the first question? Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U225	What do areas mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U226	Thank you. Got it. Thank you very much, Mr Aaviksoo. The areas and the division of the fields are set out in this order of the Prime Minister. In addition, when we look at the ministries and their descriptions in the Government of the Republic Act, it also says what the Ministry does. Among these areas, the Prime Minister, with his right of organisation, will, if necessary, share it. The Chancellor shall give orders to the structural units of the Ministry in accordance with the area to which these tasks belong. The budget is drawn up in cooperation between the two ministers working in this ministry. Both ministers represent their field in the budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U227	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U228	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Can you tell specifically who appointed the EAS Council? The Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship announced strongly in the media that he had put a new Council in place. But it turns out he doesn't have the right to do so because he doesn't have the right to sign. In order to get this thing legally in place, he went and knocked on the door of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Fortunately, this minister was at home and signed up, and this matter was legally settled. Who really put this EAS Council in place, either the Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise or the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, or did they do it together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U229	Thank you. I'll come back to the contents of my speech. There is currently a Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications who also approved the EAS Council. I cannot speak for the press, even if I would very much like it, for which reasons it was pointed out that it was signed by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship. In fact, there is currently only one minister in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and there are two unportfolio ministers in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U230	Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U231	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question was already raised on the question of my colleague, Mr Aaviksoo, but since the answer was not very precise, I am still asking. You said the chancellor would give down orders according to the field. But I wonder which minister the chancellor will submit to. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as we know, there are now two ministers. I imagine the area may be important in the case of the Vice Chancellor, but which minister should be heard by the chancellor as the general head of the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U232	My last answer was that it was happening, as they say from the top down. It also happens from the bottom up. In fact, the task is to report and to make any proposals to the Minister on a sector-by-sector basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U233	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U234	Thank you. I'm moving on from Kalev Kallo's question. First of all, one minister must propose to the government the appointment of a chancellor. Everything starts there. Who decides that? It still has to come out of somewhere. Fortunately, the draft is a draft implementing act, but unfortunately it is rather superficial. It shows how these areas of responsibility are to be regulated, but there are a lot of questions left in the air. The Ministry is a whole and has one legal service and an accounting department. If, for example, there are errors in the accounts and the Ministry's annual report, or if the legal service is wrong, how will it be made clear in which ministerial area this error occurred?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U235	Thank you. We're already going to the next sub-act that isn't in this order. It is, as they say, a basic Bible, or a ministry's statute. There, all these contradictions must be eliminated and management schemes must be clearly described so that officials are clear about how orders and orders can move from top to bottom and how this movement takes place in the opposite direction. These are already matters of the Ministry's Statute.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U236	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U237	Thank you. There is, in fact, a big difference between being a minister in a literal sense and being a minister without a portfolio. Now it's a mistake. There are no foreign trade and infrastructure ministers, but there is actually a Minister for Foreign Trade and Infrastructure without a portfolio. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U238	If we come to the EAS Council again, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications currently has a Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. There are also two non-portfolio ministers who are not entitled to issue a regulation. That's not news, either. In the government of the Republic of Estonia, there has been an unportfolio minister and other such ministers in history.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U239	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U240	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In accordance with the principle laid down in § 3 of the Constitution, state authority is exercised only on the basis of the Constitution and the laws compatible with it. The draft replaces the requirement for the legal basis for the activities of the Minister in charge of the Ministry, which is the result of the Constitution, by the order of the Prime Minister, which by its very nature is merely an administrative act assigned to the administration to deal with purely internal, self-ordering issues such as the replacement of ministers, the approval of the government's agenda, ministerial holidays, etc. It is not even mentioned in the Constitution as an independent act. Perhaps the prime minister's order is given the power of a legislative act on the substance of the bill, although only the Riigikogu can legislate according to the Constitution. I also see here a contradiction with the current constitution. Don't you see that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U241	Thank you. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U242	Thank you. Please, Lauri Vahtre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U243	Thank you! I'm listening and I can't believe it. It's like the quartet was taken by the fifth man, but there's still as many pills and chairs as there was before. Now they give two to play the violin, one guy pushes the tongues, the other one pulls the bow, and then he sits with the third guy in one chair. I'm going to ask you a question about the chancellor. Did I really understand that the chancellor is going to be in subjection to two ministers, one of whom is subordinate to another?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U244	Thank you. Maybe I'll give you a musical answer. Music has also evolved over time, although a conservative wing may indeed play the same quartet as in the 15th century. I think that, in recent times, the world's music life has been progressed by such a multi-symptom and often also by the art of musicians changing places. But if you come to the chancellors, I would point out once again that the chancellor runs the ministry. Let's just say the chancellor is responsible for the ministry's continuity. If there are several ministers in the Ministry, the ministers who run the Ministry shall entrust the Chancellor with tasks in one field or another. I don't know what's going on here. Ministers are pursuing a policy in the ministry in this field and are also in the direction of the ministry's work in this respect. The Chancellor will arrange for all these tasks to be accomplished at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U245	Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U246	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I've been listening to this talk here, but things are getting more and more confusing when you look at the way they run it. Until the Minister said the Ministry was run by a chancellor. As far as I know, the ministry is run by a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U247	It was a glitch.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U248	But it seems to me that the real content of this restructuring is that it wants to create more jobs for politicians. It's more like a public relations venture. I still wonder what added value we bring in the political decision-making process and in the administration of the state with this bill. We're making things a lot more complicated. I understand the political desire to give many politicians a job. But I ask you quite frankly: are you convinced that we are actually bringing any added value so that the ministry's work becomes clearer, more effective and more transparent?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! More than nine years ago, I was also Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. To my surprise, I had to take part in the work of the four Councils of the European Union. This meant that at least once a month I had to leave Estonia, to Brussels, but mostly it happened twice a month, which, of course, is too much. I did it, but I was also a minister for a relatively short time. Later, ministers have mostly given up taking part in some of the Council's work. I don't think that's right. Do you personally consider it right that the former administration of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications is now divided between two ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U250	Thank you. I'm sure I think it's the right thing to do. Otherwise, it would have been very difficult for the Ministry of Justice to develop this draft under the direction of the Minister of Justice. Let's look at our northern neighbors. There are very many areas that we have within the competence of one minister, divided entirely on the basis of other principles. This will allow ministers to participate much better in the debate on issues in their field within the European Union, because they are better informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U251	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U252	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday, 6 May. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, Kristen Kanarik, Adviser to the Minister of Justice, Illimar Pärnamägi, Head of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Heiki Loot, State Secretary, Margus Matt, Head of the Legislative Department of the State Chancellery, and Mait Laaring, Senior Advisor to the Chancellor of Justice. Predictably, this draft led to a long and serious debate in the Commission. The Commission stated that the move was planned in the right direction in principle. However, the Members of the Commission were somewhat divided as to whether the method by which the proposed objective could be achieved is the most appropriate. There were two options for discussion: to make rapid and necessary changes or to undertake a more thorough reorganisation of the area of government. At the meeting of the Commission, Kristen Kanarik and Andres Anvelt first presented the general objectives of the draft. I am not going to repeat this here, because the Minister has just finished this review. I will present the course of the debate in the Commission. Secretary of State Heiki Loot explained that this particular step is based on the 2011 OECD report on government governance, which is the most comprehensive and comprehensive analysis of the organisation of government in Estonia. This report found that Estonia's governance is too rigid and over-regulated by law. According to Heiki Lood, Finland and Sweden were brought as examples where overregulation was avoided. Mr Loot added that it is characteristic of countries with parliamentary governance that the executive has been given greater discretion to determine the responsibilities of ministers on the basis of political priorities. Mait Laaring, the Chancellor of Justice's representative, highlighted the issues of constitutional law, administrative law and legal clarity addressed by the draft. He stated that the officials of the Chancellery of Justice did not see any conflict with the Constitution on the first two subjects, but there might be a problem with legal clarity in some respects. The speaker pointed out that in the parliamentary system, the legitimacy of the government comes from the parliament. The candidate for Prime Minister of the winning party will make his programme speech to the legislator, where he will identify the priorities of the government and the methods by which these priorities are to be implemented. If Parliament agrees with these priorities, the Prime Minister's candidate will receive a mandate on the basis of which he will also put together a government. Valdo Randpere, who was sitting at the Commission, asked whether there was a search engine that would allow the law to identify terms that needed to be changed. Presumably, this draft will lead to transfers that extend to a large number of legal acts and all of them would need a correction if the draft was adopted as a law. Illimar Pärnamägi replied that this mechanism exists, but time is needed to carry out this work and to check it out. Mr Herkel asked when the draft had started and pointed out that the OECD report had already been completed in 2011. The bill is supposed to make it look like it's trying to regulate things that have already been done afterwards. Kristen Kanarik explained that a change in the organisation of public administration had been undertaken since 2008. Therefore, this step cannot be seen as a sudden state of mind, but as a result of long-term work based on an analysis of nearly 400 pages on the organisation of the Government of the Republic. In the current government coalition, a part of it was introduced; it cannot be seen as a move-on idea. Tarmo Tamm asked who would still be responsible for the ministry if there were several ministers. The Minister explained that if the Prime Minister changes the title of the Minister according to the area of responsibility, it does not require the Riigikogu to come forward again and the area of responsibility is determined on the basis of the order of the Prime Minister. Väino Linde examined whether the draft provides that the names of ministers are to be replaced by the words 'Minister responsible for the field' in the law. Doesn't a common citizen have a problem with which minister he should be addressing? Minister Anvelt explained that ministries would remain and people would normally have to understand the area of his problem. If there is a need for clarification, we need to look at this arrangement, because people usually turn to the ministry, not to the minister, although they can take both options. Jaak Aaviksoo pointed out that the bill already looks like a step forward in legitimisation, and this is bad practice. Mr Aaviksoo also found that there are many other things in the OECD report that need to be changed in the Estonian governance arrangements. He gave a practical example. If the Ministry is put in charge of two ministers, so that the chancellor is between them, how can we resolve the situation when the ministerial arrangements create a conflict of laws? Aaviksoo stated that it would probably be right to introduce a more profound change in the governance rather than a one-off change, in line with the OECD report. This should be before the Riigikogu someday. The speaker proposed to include a clause in the draft that the candidate Prime Minister will submit a list of ministers to the President of the Republic in the proposal, together with the titles, on the basis of the political priorities of the government to be formed and the needs of effective government, which the Prime Minister has introduced to the Riigikogu, from which he has received the approval to form the government. Tarmo Tamm once again asked what he asked about today means the Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise. He pointed out that the law did not provide for such a minister. Secretary of State Heiki Loot replied that all members of the government in office had been appointed in accordance with the law in force. The law does not use the term 'portfolioless minister' but the term'minister who does not run the ministry'. The debate went on and the Minister pointed out that more precise areas of competence would be set out by the Prime Minister's arrangement. Andres Herkel asked what would happen if the bill was not passed as a law. Are there any issues dealt with in the OECD report intended to be submitted separately to the Riigikogu? Heiki Loot explained that several important recommendations in the OECD report have in the meantime become law through the new Civil Service Act and the Basic Law on the State Budget. A new, innovative action plan is currently being prepared for the government, which can also be finalised as a new draft if necessary. The speaker asked if it would not be a reasonable time to take off and prepare a more comprehensive draft, because this government has ten months to rule and within that time it would be possible to prepare a draft of proper governance for the next government. The Minister and Mr Loot found it more reasonable to go ahead with this particular matter in order to find out more quickly. There were questions about the individual issues, I referred here to the most important ones. Finally, it was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 14 May (consensually), that the first reading be closed (also unanimously), that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 28 May and that the rapporteur be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U253	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U254	Good colleague! It has been said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the initiator of the draft has also pointed out that in a number of developed countries that deserve to be exemplary, the composition of a flexible cabinet is indeed a daily practice. Apparently, there are a lot of people in this hall who find that this is the right direction of movement. However, I would like to ask you, not only the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also the former judge of state and the person who knows European law, as follows. Do you think that in those countries where such a system operates effectively, there is also a different constitutional framework than the Estonian Constitution, or are the constitutions sufficiently ambivalent to realise such a flexible system that exists in Anglo-Saxon and Nordic culture in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U255	Thank you. I tend rather towards the second part of this question in my understanding that government regulations should be sufficiently flexible, i.e. ambivalent, as you said. The world is changing so quickly that if it were to be incorporated into the law even worse than the very specific lists of ministries and ministers in the Constitution, it would be self-binding. In order to respond to the acute needs of the environment, based on political priorities and demands, it would be very appropriate for us to implement sectoral political leadership. The Constitution uses the concept of governance, but I believe that its content is the same as that of responsibility. I have not carried out a separate analysis of this regulation in other countries, but if this method is used, it is likely that a method or a way has been found to implement this point of the Constitution and interpret the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U256	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rait Maruse! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U257	Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, all the arguments put forward by this chair in the debate on this item must be accepted as regards the changing world and the more dynamic government that this dynamic world demands. In this sense, the law of the Government of the Republic needs to be reviewed and updated in any case. In particular, it needs to be made more flexible, including with regard to the composition of the Cabinet. It is a little regrettable that the extensive, relevant and quite prominent analysis of the Estonian government arrangement carried out by the OECD in 2011 has given less fruit today than could have done. There are different reasons, some of them political, but probably the most important backgrounds here are based on the interests of the authorities and the limitations of the understanding of public administration. In this sense, this draft initiated by the government should be welcomed, which will make Estonian governance more flexible and will probably allow a number of official barriers to be overcome. As such, this bill could be useful. But, unfortunately, the positive assessment of this bill, at least according to my understanding, is limited. I base my position on four keys. First of all, the Constitution. The Constitution tells us not too much room for interpretation in the wording that the Minister runs the Ministry. Lawyers probably know how to bend and tilt, decorate and expand this wording by order, but it seems to me that the authors of the executive edition of the Constitution and a large part of the Estonian people still understand that the Minister of Education is headed by the Ministry of Education, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of the Interior. If we want to reorganize this practice, we must take into account, in addition to the Constitution, the views of the people, which could at least be respected as much as the constitutional order. Secondly, without being competent enough to claim something fundamental, I also find it strange that this development, which emerges from this bill, is that the concepts of the Minister of Education, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs disappear from the legal space of Estonia in the first place and are replaced by the concept of a qualified minister. Excuse me, may I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U258	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U259	Thank you. Thirdly, the OECD report on governance made a number of recommendations. Some of them have been implemented thanks to the efforts of the State Chancellery and I think they should be commended for this. The Cabinet has also contributed to this, but this political will has not been enough to implement the important recommendations of the OECD. It would therefore be a good thing if the government in office could essentially approach those recommendations which it referred to in such a large amount of words and with great empathy when presenting a specific draft. Work in this direction could be more determined and fruitful. Fourthly, it must be said that there are a number of practical issues without a solution, of which the question of subordination is central. The questions and answers revealed that the Chancellor's institution would remain in the air after the law came into force. But that is far from the only problem. The budgetary problems, human resources policy and a number of other issues are also worrying, including what the current Minister for Justice was somewhat uncertain about. So who's running the ministry? The Constitution says the Minister. But believe me, in those countries where such a flexible minister institution has been created, the Ministry's Chancellor will lead and the Minister will have a greater function of political leadership and supervision. This could also be good practice in the Republic of Estonia. True, the Constitution and its authors were likely to take a slightly different view, so we must return to the Constitution. Now I'm talking about a very practical thing. Even before anyone had started discussing the amendment of the law, the constitution or other important matters, new ministers were already announced to the Estonian people. They're all already in office, taking decisions and leading. This is not in any way good practice now. We have received a carriage that carries a horse, and the constitution is dragging a string onto the wagon. Something's kind of wrong. Finally, a political remark. I cannot share the view of the current government and government coalition that the wrong names of ministers or a small number of ministers are responsible for the problems of Estonian government. Rather, the problem is that the relevant authorities, whether political or non-political, cannot do what is expected of them in good quality. Inventing new names and moving portfolios and plastic bags will not solve this fundamental issue. I shall sum up my speech in this way. I think that the government could take on the task of developing a new Government Act, which could be enforced for the new formation that will take office after the elections. In this context, I hand over, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the proposal to reject the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws 654.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-14_U260	Any more calls? There's no call. The Bureau has received a proposal from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to reject draft law 654. We have to vote through this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to reject the draft law amending the Government Act and related amendments to other laws 654. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 11), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 36 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. First reading of Bill 654 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 5.15 p.m. on 28 May. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.02 p.m.
