ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on the proposal of 37 members of the Riigikogu at the time they requested and the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U2	Following the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu, Vilja Savisaar-Toomast, Mikhail Korb has become an alternate member of the Riigikogu since 20 June. I'm asking Mikhail Korb to take an oath.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U4	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U5	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching three draft laws: firstly, the draft law amending the Identity Documents Act and the State Fees Act; secondly, the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act; thirdly, the draft law amending the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act. In processing the above three draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Regional Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U6	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I will pass the decision 'amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control''. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U8	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over an inquiry, signed by ten members of the Central Party Group, to our Prime Minister, Taavi Rõivas. The issue of freedom of the press in Estonia is the subject of an inquiry. As we know, Estonia's freedom of the press has fallen 11th place in the world in the last two years. According to experts, this is linked to the fact that the media are influenced by government agencies and that our press is also economically dependent on government agencies. To shed some light on this problem and to explore it, we turned to Taavi Rõivas to explain the situation to us and also to tell us why journalists from Tallinn Television are not allowed to government press conferences. This decision was made on 6 June, and so far the Prime Minister has not explained why it was done. Only a few days ago, when performing on public television in Estonian Television, he said that Tallinn Television was making an anti-Estonian agitation, which is such a serious accusation that he should either sue Tallinn Television or turn to kapo. We want the Prime Minister to explain these pretty frivolous statements to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U10	I have adopted four drafts and one inquiry. If they comply with the requirements of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the drafts shall be processed and the enquiry shall be forwarded to the addressee. Let's do the presence check now! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. Can I have your attention, please? Pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the working schedule of the extraordinary session is approved by the Riigikogu by a majority vote. I will put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of confirming the timetable in this form, 20 against and 2 abstentions. The timetable for the session's work has been established.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U11	Let us begin the discussion of the items on the agenda. The first item is the second reading of the Amending Act on funded pensions and the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the related draft Act amending other laws and amending the Income Tax Act. Attention! Since the Government of the Republic decided on Saturday to link this draft debate to a matter of trust, it may be appropriate to remind you of the procedure for the draft procedure. First comes the presentation of the representative of the Government of the Republic, then questions to the rapporteur and negotiations as normal handling of the drafts takes place. As a result of § 137 (6) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, no amendments will be put to the vote and the final vote will be taken after negotiations. If the Riigikogu does not adopt the draft relating to the matter of trust, I must inform the President of the Republic immediately. Let's get started. The rapporteur of the Government of the Republic is Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U12	Honourable Bureau! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As has already been said several times in this Chamber, the content of this draft is the postponement of the third phase of parental pension until 2018 and the exemption of the average pension from income tax by raising the tax-free threshold from EUR 210 to EUR 220 per month. These decisions, in particular this postponement, must be seen as a whole. This must be seen with the increase in child support that was recently approved in the Riigikogu without a source of cover, which costs nearly 73 million euros to the budget. It is also necessary to take into account the compensation for the time of the crisis for the payments of the second pillar, which has already been decided on in the past, at 54 million in the following year and will increase to 60 million euros by 2017, and the overall increase in the tax-free minimum from 144 euros to 154 euros per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U13	I'm sorry, Minister, one moment! [[Summing in the hall, the manager ringing the bell.]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U14	Thank you. The rise in the tax-free minimum for pensions will cost EUR 4 million next year and EUR 6 million later. As a result, the average pension is exempt from income tax, which means that from 1 January no income tax is levied on a pension not exceeding EUR 374 per month. The costs of this phase of the parental pension would amount to EUR 27 to 30 million per year in the coming years. All of this burden would not be borne by the budget, which is why we made a choice in favour of socially more efficient spending. It is undoubtedly right to support families with children when they are raised, not afterwards in the distant future. I'll remind you how we do it. From the new year onwards, the country will pay the first and second children EUR 45 per month instead of the current EUR 19.18 and at the same time the third and each subsequent child will receive an increase of EUR 100 per month. The need-based family allowance will be EUR 45 per month for families living in relative poverty, with one child receiving child support, and EUR 90 for families with at least two children. Next year, the child's share of income support will also increase from 0.8 to 1.0. The government decided at an extraordinary session, as has already been said, to link this draft to a matter of trust. This extraordinary decision was the result of the opposition's announced staggering tactics, which would not allow the government to implement its policy or prepare the 2015 state budget. The voting of the 1000 amendments tabled by the IRL Group would take several decades according to current practice, which is made particularly complicated by the format of the extraordinary sitting of the Riigikogu. Whether the use of taxpayers' money can make wise choices and, if necessary, change old decisions is not only a matter of the credibility of a specific government, but of the entire Estonian state. Our country will not be sustainable if it continues to face new long-term commitments without reviewing what has been done so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U15	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U16	Thank you, good waitress. I understood from your presentation that the three-year deferral of parental pension is due to an increase in the amount of child benefit, and you ended your presentation with the view that new obligations cannot be assumed if old people are not reviewed. In view of the fact that the government has linked the adoption of this draft law to a vote of confidence, I would like to know how to trust the government, which makes all its new political promises at the expense of earlier promises, already agreed and adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U17	Thank you. I don't know how you can do this, but try, it's not very complicated. In general, the credibility of the government is that it dares to make decisions. And if he's found a smarter cost, he can write down a worse cost. Our country does not expand indefinitely, and the demographic situation of our people is what it is. First of all, if you ask me that, I will remind you of the first common budgets when you were one of those who spoke about the sustainability of the pension system and of social expenditure in general. You brought the percentages of the increase in the Ministry of Social Affairs budget, and you were right to some extent, even though you did not know the difference between ministries and disciplines. This murmuring ended with a big bang, when the idea came up that there was no money for pensions, no money for pensions, but we call ourselves parents with a fingertip, and then there is money, we reward ourselves for it. This pension supplement coming from outside the pension indexation system is undoubtedly a very difficult burden on society. The problems of the ageing population cannot be solved in this way; the solution must be systemic, not such a bonus system.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U18	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U19	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will move on from Mr Aaviksoo's question. Today we have a vote of confidence. You've been Minister of Finance for a long time, you were also during the cuts, but your mind is very volatile. We passed the Parental Pensions Act together, now you're telling me from this remote control that it was one big mistake. You have not supported the universal growth of child support; now you are saying that it is the best solution, long-term and sustainable. This thinking is very fickle, as is government policy. The current draft stipulates that the parental pension will be postponed, but in the Committee on Monetary Affairs you have said that it should not be postponed, it should be abolished at all. Tell me the truth about what's really going on! In a few years, if you're still Minister of Finance, I'd be embarrassed to hear you say anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U20	Thank you. I wouldn't be embarrassed to be Minister of Finance in a few years. But I gave that honest opinion when you made that election promise when you were sitting next to us in the government. I said it would not make sense, it would not be socially adequate and it would be very costly. But we made this parental pension system somewhat edible in the coalition negotiations. The third stage is undoubtedly the most inappropriate, but the decision of the current government is to postpone it by three years, and the financial cover for it should come from the end of the compensation for the second pillar. So in cash flows, there is this possibility, but of course you can always consider smarter choices, which I do not deny. However, this solution has been viewed on a cash-flow basis: when the obligation to compensate for the second pillar ends, new pension liabilities can be assumed. I prefer them to be systemic, not such bonuses.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U21	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As you yourself said at this point in time, this bill has come out because the budget cannot bear the cost of a parental pension. At the same time, the Prime Minister came out in this Chamber in the spring with a very optimistic message that this year the revenue side of the budget will hopefully already prevail with an amount of EUR 40 million. So what's the budget really like? Can it be viewed as optimisticly as the Prime Minister has looked at it, or are there serious problems and we cannot even maintain a parental pension now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U23	Thank you. The current surpluses are not yet the basis for changing the forecast, albeit not the structural forecast. We have definitely improved the tax receipts, but we cannot say that the structural balance of the budget has improved. Structural costs should not actually be charged, we are on the border. I agree very much with the position of Eesti Pank, who warns us that Mart Laar is of the same opinion, because he is the chairman of the bank's supervisory board, and that we must be careful. The calculation of the structural balance is always a little debatable, and current tax receipts do not fundamentally change things here, they mean shutting down certain schemes, which will be replaced sooner or later by other schemes, etc. But if you ask me about the state of the budget, it was the IRL that started again, based on the five-month receipts, I don't want to say exult, but to comment. At least Sven Sester said you'd see, get ready to redefine the budget, etc. A few months will come more, a few months less. VAT is fickle by drawbacks, but the fact is that beyond expectations it has come three months and below expectations two months. Once again, we cannot make structural decisions on the basis of tax receipts, current tax receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U24	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U25	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Colleagues Seeder wrote in the Sakala newspaper that the government has decided to start cutting pensions. Can you tell us how much the average old-age pension in Estonia is expected to rise in 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U26	Thank you. I'm sure you know that number by heart. For me, it's a bit of history. Did you ask about 2015? Let's just say the magnitude is 5%, but don't take it, I don't have it in my eyes right now. When it comes to budgeting, it is eloquent, but now it's been distracted. The pension is growing, the talk of pension cuts is, of course, wrong, and I recommend that members of the Riigikogu do not lie.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U27	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U28	Thank you. Good waitress! You said in your speech that the parental pension must be cancelled in the next three years, because there will be other social measures that will also support raising children, and they will require money. Do you think it's a good practice if every new government is going to replace these measures? If, in less than a year's time, there will be a new government again, will it happen that some social measures and support measures for raising children will be abolished each time and that others will be replaced? How does the Minister of Finance feel about this being good in the long run?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U29	Thank you. Basically, getting smarter is good, but the bad promises that have been made are of course binding. In this case, we are really making a contribution to other measures: tax-free increases in pensions, an increase in the tax-free minimum, child benefits, which is a tangible thing. I, of course, congratulate the most needs-based part of child benefits, which really delineates the problem. The worst thing we can think about is that we are going to reward parents for children who are already born, knowing that this burden will fall on those very children who are taxpayers. We could actually make wiser decisions all the time than the previous ones, but some stability is, of course, necessary and that is why we are not going to the first two stages of parental pension. The first two stages are logical. What happens to the third is, of course, the decision of the next Riigikogu. It is now the opinion that this phase will be postponed for three years. Something can always happen, but we don't eat that money, that money goes to social measures. It burns more now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U30	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U31	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This temporal logic is quite extraordinary. We are now talking specifically about the cost of parental pension, which is EUR 20+ million next year and more or less the same amount in the next two years. The forecasts for growth in August do not yet exist, and we have seen really a wide range of signals in the economy, though negative, but positive. That is why I ask how you know for sure that by July it is worth making such a fundamental decision of value. In other words, are you so well aware of the budgetary prospects for the next three years that EUR 20 million is worth changing such a fundamental decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U32	Thank you. We are even so well aware that this EUR 20+ million is actually 27 to 30 million. So first don't make too much sense! Secondly, let us remember that we are not talking about kroons, we are talking about euros, we are talking about huge amounts of money. And I recall how the budget is made. This is not done in such a way that the new prognosis and ups!, now we have the money to raise the percentage. It's not like that. Structural balance is constantly being closely monitored. Follow these warnings that we have received from Eesti Pank and the European Commission, who will assess our structural position as worse. The law doesn't allow a structural minus. Under no circumstances must the costs be picked up prematurely, so that we do not correct spending elsewhere. Still got to be corrected. And it's a smarter decision. I would rather look like someone here to say directly that raising child benefits is bad and parental pensions are good to have to pay a parental pension instead of a tax-free minimum for pensions. Let's talk in comparisons! After all, the money is always limited. This forecast does not change the case; it is long-term structural revenues and the costs that we are talking about. Those aren't questions for a few months. And the sooner we say it, the sooner the recipient of the benefits will know exactly what will happen next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U33	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U34	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In normal life, at least I don't think people who don't respect agreements deserve respect. Unfortunately, it seems that politics is different. We are still used to the fact that some politicians in the Central Party are confronting children and pensioners, but unfortunately today it was just at the beginning that the current government was starting to do the same. It is particularly sad, at least on the basis of the report, I had the impression that parents who raised children who paid taxes did not deserve respect. That's my question. At the time of the first reading, it seemed that the basic reasoning was that the decisions of the current coalition were more popular than this parental pension, the need-based support. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U35	Thank you. Where do you read all this? Haven't you ever been to the hall that you haven't heard what I've been saying? I have never spoken of popularity, I have never spoken of what you say, I have not opposed generations. I have been talking about the need for money for children when children are being raised, especially on a need-based basis. There's no point in reading random texts to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U36	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U37	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the current Parental Pensions Act is a stupid law. Your colleague, the coalition partner, Karel Rüütel, thought that this was your personal position, not the position of the government. I, on the other hand, thought that since the government has authorized you to represent the government in the process of dealing with this law, that is the position of the government as a whole. Please tell me how it really is, whether it is your personal opinion or whether it is the position of the entire government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U38	Thank you. I always said that was my opinion. I know that several members of the government and experts agree with me in the costaars, but of course not everyone goes out to shout it out in public. It's easier to say that everything can be done at once and you can only accept subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U39	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U40	Thanks! Good Minister of Finance! You said in your report that it is actually very reasonable for the government to admit mistakes and to review some of the old things, for example, to replace parental pensions with other government promises. But I'm asking for a personal opinion now, not a government opinion, sometimes it can't be. What are the actions that this government has already done or is still planning on doing in the next coalition, if it were up to you, or would you like to change or withdraw when negotiating at a table?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U41	Thank you. Right now, I don't have such bright convictions. Of course, we've had a little time together. We have also made compromises that are not all brilliant, but nothing very bad has this government done, still good. I'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U42	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U43	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In your answers, you say that state budget expenditure needs to be reviewed and it is appropriate to support children when they grow up in family policy. At the same time, the bill says that the parental pension will only be postponed. Is it foreseen that your views on family policy will change in 2018, and when will they change again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U44	Thank you. In the case of good arguments, my views have progressed and improved. But I would remind you that the 2018 mark is linked to the compensation of the second pillar. If you want to know my personal opinion again, I do not think that society should have set itself such a goal that it will compensate for the economic crisis itself. However, this decision has been made, it is a burden on the budget, it is a huge burden, and if you look at the cash flow, look at the structural burdens, it is clear that not everything can be done at the same time. I have read out a number of things that we will do next year: tax-free minimums, two pieces, child benefits, needs-based child benefit. They're the most important. Compensating the second pillar is anyway. If you add it all up, you have to find a cover somewhere, and you have to find a smart cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U45	Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U46	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going back to that time when you were negotiating a coalition with the Socialists and the Sociers came to you with a wish concert list, which provided for a number of social benefits to be increased. Are they the ones who offered to take money from his left pocket into the right pocket of the pensioner? Or did the Reform Party offer this alternative, having itself voted in favour of this bill in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U47	Thank you. You weren't a party there, and I don't think it's appropriate to take you here right now. Clearly, child support was very important to the social democrats, and we took it as a noble decision. Perhaps we saw it a little differently, more need-based, perhaps we would have been more oppressed on services, not perhaps, but certainly, but so these compromises are born. But once again, what we are postponing here is still far behind the efficiency of the measures that we have decided to take and which the Riigikogu has confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U48	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U49	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Today, we are talking about a postponement of the IRL's basic election promise, the parental pension. As is well known, two of their major election permits have been implemented to abolish land tax on the land under home country and to implement free higher education. How do you assess the financial and social effectiveness of the two decisions taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U50	Their greatest social and financial efficiency was that we got together a functioning government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U51	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U52	Thank you. Good waitress! I understand from your speech that your attitude towards parental pension is relatively similar to your attitude towards even child support. In your opinion, needs-based child support is a much more effective measure. Does this mean that if a new government were to take office now, it would also change the forced agreement imposed on you, which means that child support will increase altogether? Do you think that this decision should be reversed again and used for some more effective measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U53	Thank you. First of all, social or family policy is an absconding fact that the most effective forms of support are services. If I could, I'd prefer them. Then there will be the need-based allowances, they will be in here, I will remind you, and then there will be universal ones. Then there will be an exemption for families with children. And at the end of the day, when society says thank you for having children, without knowing where the money comes from, without those who, for one reason or another, do not have this pension pillar. The sequence really needs to be looked at, but there are second- and third-tier measures in this draft, which are certainly all necessary. One more thing. The big difference is that they have already come into force for the next government and have really been enjoyed by the people. The third stage of parental benefit has not been attended by a citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U54	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U55	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Your efforts to combine various noble social measures are, as usual, arbitrary. But I guess that's what's gotten to the Minister of Finance in some way. I remember that, in the spring, there was also talk of an interesting measure, such as 'Growing more flexible government', in finding the sources of these expenditures. I'm sorry if I quoted inaccurately. The price cap on expenditure cuts there was about EUR 15 million, if I remember correctly. Can you describe the current state of implementation of this cost reduction or austerity measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U56	Can we repeat what the cost was?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U57	That was, if I remember correctly, making the costs of state governance more flexible, making the costs of state administration more flexible and thus saving EUR 15 million. How far are you from implementing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U58	Thank you. Let's just say, ever since the same effort, the autumn, when we did the budget together, we've gone beyond what we wanted. Lots and lots! We've definitely exceeded that $15 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U59	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U60	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When you answered Mr Kiisler's first question, you said that there was no point in 'preparing for children already born'. I stress that, however, we are not rewarding with the maternity pension, but we are levelling out the inequalities that have arisen. Did I misunderstand you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U61	This goes well for the first two stages. The third is that he's very unsystematic. We have received criticism here from the Reform Party Minister for Social Affairs that social costs are increasing and retirement is going to be much more money once again - this criticism has come from you. However, an adequate response cannot be that we are creating an external element of the pension system. The point of indexing is not to make populist decisions that make the pension system unsustainable. But it's a theory. The practice is that we are still talking about postponing for three years, and its cover is linked to compensating for second-pillar payments, which is at least twice the budgetary burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U62	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U63	Good manager! Good waitress! I want to make it clear that parental pension is not a gift. This is a law that lays down the right to justice, which will put an end to the lower pension of parents, especially parents with many children. It is inevitable that a mother who has been at home with young children will be excluded from working life, which means that the pension she has earned is now less than those who have not been at home with the child. Do you want to argue with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U64	Thank you. Nice speech. Of course, it has this kind of compensation element in it, but these compensation points we can look for endlessly. In real life, children have support for parents and maybe we shouldn't take children as state punishment for parents. We still need to make sure that the various social groups are able to live and optimise their relationships. This element, as I have said many times, I do not consider it reasonable, but once again, we are talking about postponement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U65	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U66	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Unfortunately, since you were unable to attend the first reading and there was a replacement, perhaps my question did not really make sense. At least it was in my ears that the new coalition's money-sharing decisions were made in such a way that they would cover as many groups as possible, so many people would benefit from them, so they would be popular. You said here these choices are more important. I am now asking whether all these decisions are related to the approaching elections or whether there is some serious content behind them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U67	Thank you. That's a hell of a find! I was quite shocked to hear your party chairman's comments at AK, where he said it was a really new policy, so now the government can start taking away all the subsidies for populist reasons. That's a pretty good word! On your question, the same logic was that the withdrawal of subsidies is popular. I don't know, so far it was the case that subsidies were always sought to be introduced, regardless of whether the money was and whether it was reasonable, and it was considered populist. It's a nice find, of course, but I'm probably not a man of the new age that I can understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U68	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. During the IRL government, the government supported and the Riigikogu hall also supported the entry into force of the parental pension in the following year. Now the temporary government is quick to put its hand in the pockets of the mothers who have done their job and to take away the little money that had already been put in it. How can we be sure that the government will not put its hand in the wallet of the weakest again and again at the end of the year when the budget is being drawn up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U70	Thank you. Those were very eloquent words. Nobody puts a hand in anyone's pocket, and there's no such thing in someone's pocket as you call it. No one has in their pocket the money you claim to be taken away. This measure does not exist! The weakest, the most at risk of poverty in Estonian society, however, are families with children, not all, but those with income problems. And we have allocated very large sums of money to support families with children. There is also a constant need for very high costs to compensate for second-pillar payments. For pensioners, we will increase the tax-free minimum and for everyone else, too, we will be raising the tax-free minimum. These are our choices. Confront them, prove them to be worse choices. That we can simply pile up different measures, but I do not agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U71	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U72	Thanks! In this debate, there is a great deal of contrast between the fact that you yourself have also done so, on the one hand, Pensioka, I apologise, pensioners and, on the other hand, children and the importance of increasing child benefits. But, in this case, isn't it much easier to actually go to pensioners with a match with their own money? On the one hand, there is a supplement to parental pension, but on the other hand, it is a tax-free minimum, which is actually like a self-evident thing, without any way of saying, a policy or a coalition agreement, and which, more or less, could be there with an average pension. So these big child benefits shouldn't get involved in this game at all. It is fair to say that pensioners are being taken from them to give them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U73	Thank you. Well, it's nice of you to say that I'm a little opposed, but rather someone else is contrasting here. It was sweet of you to say that. There was a very direct reference to disrespect, but I know that you are actually a respectable person. Don't do that again, they'll get it wrong! Who's the match for who? If you ask your grandmothers and grandpas seriously, they won't be sorry if their children and grandchildren get more support. And I'm sure they wouldn't agree if the children's and grandchildren's money paid them a visit. They'd like a younger family to do better. But once again: we will allocate more to pensioners than to others to raise the tax-free minimum and we will also raise pensions next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U74	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that when you're on this remote, you're often emotionally uncomfortable. I'd like to give you a gentle chance to get rid of this jam. You're saying rhetorically that you're delaying something. In the remote, you have mentioned that you personally do not support this significant part of your parental pension at all. Please state the reason that you are talking and you are talking about postponement, but inside you are saying that this measure should be abolished. Tell the members of the Riigikogu and all of us what your heart wishes for this specific measure. Do you really want to postpone it for a relatively indefinite period of time, or do you really think it is right that this measure should be abolished at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U76	Thank you. I don't come here to represent the government with my heart's desires, which is why I'm not going to comment on them at all. With your questions, since we've had a lot of conversation, you're forcing me to comment on my personal opinion, but I'm here representing the government's opinion, which is a three-year postponement. That's right. Politics is an art of compromise, even with you compromises were made. I'm not happy about everything, but in the end, we made a lot of good decisions. As a result, the government managed to put together, although at the cost of fulfilling some foolish election promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U77	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U78	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have repeatedly said here that it is reasonable to support families and children when children are young and not later afterwards. According to this logic, it is also unreasonable to collect money in the second pillar of a pension. We know that the income of an Estonian person is small when they need it, now that children are small when people are viable, never later, in retirement. A parent's pension is not a bonus, it is a compensation for the fact that the parent's mother or father is away from the labour market and cannot contribute to different pension pillars while spending on raising children. Without children, it is possible to invest money in pension pillars to secure your old age. Thus, content and purpose are the same as the second pension pillar. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U79	Thank you. No, it's not. The second pillar of the pension is not linked to any of the family policy utopia you represented here, when you came up with this proposal to raise ivet, etc. No one has discovered that this measure will result in a very large follow-up of the pensioner. The second pillar is the hedging of retirement age risks. When we talk about child support or services for children, it is to mitigate the risks of raising a child. The result of putting the two together is some kind of centaur, but politics is also the art of such compromises.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U80	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U81	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I reject one of my fellow Members' statements that the Centre Party is opposing pensioners and children. I think the Centre Party may have delivered the most drafts concerning children. But let this claim remain on the conscience of the speaker. In fact, it is about political choices, whether child benefit or parental pension. I also voted in favour of increasing child support, but that is why. I think that, as long as these subsidies remain within the limits of the social budget, that is the question of political choices. But I ask you why you have added 25 million additional means of road safety to pay for social benefits. Do you think this is the right move?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U82	I'm sorry, I didn't understand the question. What kind of resources did you name? Road-saving equipment? The road's not taken away. There will be an amount in the budget, and you have not yet seen the budget. Then why are you operating on some kind of hypothetical number?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U83	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U84	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The reform party's rhetorical you're talking about delaying your mother's pension. Deferral actually sounds like what we've had here with some of the pension pillars, that's being postponed, but paid afterwards. Did you discuss in the government that this postponement of the maternity pension could be compensated in three years' time? This is not so much money. Have you discussed this or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U85	Thank you. Of course not. Enough of this second-pillar payment compensation. Society cannot compensate for its difficulties in the future; it will certainly also face problems in the future that need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U86	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U87	Thank you. I will go a little bit wider to the question of trust. We have a law passed, it was passed here in the Riigikogu two years ago, and, as far as I am concerned, all parties then voted in favour of the Parental Pensions Act. Now, as a minister, you're saying that this is actually some big shit that was done here, that you personally don't like it and that you really should lose your parental pension at all. What kind of trust can people have if the government has now decided to increase child and family allowances, universal child and family allowances, for which you have similarly said that it is not right that it is crap that child benefits should actually be paid selectively. This is the general position of the Reform Party. If you ever have another partner in government, could child benefits, for example, also happen to reduce them, because the system is actually unsustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U88	You talk about trust many times and then make statements that are not in the verbatim. You're referring to my words that I haven't said. Why are you lying? Does this increase confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U89	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U90	Thank you, dear waitress. I think in your speech you spoke about the current economic situation, and perhaps the choice you are making is linked to not very good prospects. Maybe you could give me a little more detail. We would give you the opportunity simply to describe the short-term prospects of the economy, and also from the perspective of where the limit goes where the decisions taken by the coalition should be reviewed. What's that signal lamp on the table for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U91	Thank you. First of all, the decisions taken by the coalition have not worsened the structural position of the budget, and the economic forecast does not change this fact. I don't want to do any economic forecast here right now, our next forecast is coming at the end of the summer. However, re-evaluation of the current situation does not mean that long-term views should also be corrected. That is how the budget policy is fixed in the basic law. I agree with several statements by Eesti Pank concerning the budget. I am calling for the country to avoid increasing its costs, which I have been doing here for almost two decades. We have one anchor down with this basic law, which is why we can't legally do a lot of stupidity about the balance of the budget. Even if the structural assessments differ from one institution to another, the long-term benefits and costs, when big decisions are made, and the long-term benefits and costs we are talking about, will ultimately be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U92	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U93	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to be a little more specific. You asked me before where I took the fact that the road savings have been reduced by EUR 25 million. I took it from the coalition agreement between the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party. Is this agreement still valid today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U94	Thank you. You will not find that wording in the coalition agreement. You can operate on fuel excise forecasts, but if you look at these forecasts a little bit, they're not very happy. To tell you that we took 25 million is still arbitrary. Road construction volumes have always fluctuated upwards or downwards, depending on the fuel excise forecast, and generally we cannot complain about the financing of roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U95	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You personally do not support the implementation of your parental pension at all, as I understand your lines. Where would we members of the Riigikogu get this assurance that this is really a postponement of implementation, which you say will take place now? Or are you planning to come up with new arguments to delay implementation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U97	Thank you. I have never heard of members of the Riigikogu suffering from uncertainty. They are, however, quite well-insured and also a large decision-making organisation in the country. Pull that fort over there!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U98	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U99	Thank you. Good waitress! Jaak Allik's question about fulfilling IRL's promises was that you somehow answered that it was necessary to make these decisions in order to create a coalition. Do you consider the current Free Higher Education Act to be a good or bad law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U100	Thank you. I think it's almost reasonable. The way you sold it to voters was not reasonable, because the free education of 70,000 students was not conceivable in society, and I am very critical of that. But of course it's a place to think. It is generally known that the benefit of higher education comes first to those who bear it, of course, indirectly to society in the next order, and it is well questionable whether those who do not directly benefit from it should fully pay for it. People with higher education are wealthier, healthier and happier in the middle; they are not a social risk group. But that decision has now been made. I have not withheld my belief that higher education should be partly funded by the learner, so it is just and effective. However, since we jointly disciplined this system, there was nothing left of the electoral book, it is likely that the system will now be able to live with it. It takes time to prove it, but right now the system is making students work hard, and that is definitely a positive thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U101	The aim of the IRL is not to increase public expenditure, to turn the tax system over or to make rivers flow backwards. It is our wish that the state should keep its word and comply with its commitments. It's not much to ask. This should be the basic principle of one government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U102	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U103	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U104	Thank you. Mr Secretary of Finance! The new coalition has spoken many powerful and resounding words about inclusion. Involvement is the new normality, it is the Prime Minister's slogan that he has expressed. I do not find anything in the explanatory memorandum to this draft either on the involvement of organisations representing families of children's rich families or on the involvement of representative organisations representing pensioners. What are the opinions of child-rich families and pensioners, whom you are trying to contradict here a little bit, from these organisations on this draft? Unfortunately, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not consider it necessary to involve these organisations in the procedure of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U105	Thank you. I don't think the Prime Minister will ever make it to your level. I don't know if the quote you said was relevant and in what context it was said, but involvement has been normal in Estonian society for many years, you cannot complain about it. Here in the Riigikogu, drafts are taken apart with interest groups, I always sign letters of consent with different organisations, so this is how the work is done. On this particular draft, I have no precise information as to whether the Minister of Social Affairs discussed the matter with these interest groups. However, this debate is probably not very informative, if the stakeholders are of the opinion that there is no need to make choices, you simply have to ask for everything. It's pretty common. I think that involving interest groups may not produce such a usable result. We have sometimes seen that interest groups have a rather narrow view.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U106	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U107	Thank you. Crazy bastard, Jurgen, pull yourself together! I asked about inclusion on this bill. You said inclusion was necessary, you deal with it day by day, night and day by day, and then you said that in this draft, inclusion might not be informative, would not produce results and would be a bad thing. Has this draft procedure for stakeholder involvement been completed or not, and what were the views of these organisations? I am asking for a specific answer! I didn't understand why you were referring to the Minister of Social Affairs, the government of the Republic is being represented here by you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U108	Urmas, take a verbatim when it appears. Put my answer and your question side by side and blush!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U109	No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U110	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think the government has the right to deceive people. Does anyone in this hall think otherwise? The country must be run honestly, which means that the citizen needs to know why the government and the Riigikogu do exactly that. However, the Interim Government has abandoned this principle and has decided to delete 226000 pensioners' legitimate retirement expectations without providing clear explanations. In 2011, IRL promised to introduce a parental pension in Estonia, which would increase the maintenance allowance paid to pensioners who raised children. The relevant law was passed in the Riigikogu in 2012 and the pension supplement for all pensioners with children would have been paid out as of 2015. It was enough time to make the necessary preparations and plan the money needed for the state budget. Now the Reform Party and its government partner Social Democrats have decided to lower the legitimate expectations of 226000 pensioners and take away 86 million euros from them. The government's behavior is dissipating. How is it possible that the state will adopt the law one day, commit itself to its people, and then give it up lightly before the law is implemented? In sport, it would mean giving up the victory and leaving the arena. In politics, however, the leaders of the government union have the nerve to say that the parental pension was more of a gift that pensioners simply receive three years later. A parent's pension creates certainty. Let it be made clear that parental pensions are not a gift. This is a law of justice, which will put an end to the lower pension of parents, especially parents with many children. It is inevitable that a mother who has been at home with young children will be excluded from working life, which means that the pension she has earned is now less than those who have not been at home with the child. This is precisely the difference between parental pensions, which also gives young people today the assurance that their future pension payments will not suffer as a result of raising a child. In my opinion, the temporary government of Taavi Rõivas is now demonstrating its inability to deal with the problems that are important for Estonia, as there are no doubt in Estonia. In order to hide it, the Prime Minister has probably taken up a fight with Tallinn Television, which seems to be a more affordable topic. However, young men at the head of the government probably do not understand the message they are sending to society today. The country is not a reliable partner was we really this far? The IRL is fighting for pensioners, and there is no doubt that it will not stand idly by. We demand, on the one hand, that the government acknowledge which unexpected expenses the pensioner's money has been decided to spend, and, on the other hand, that we do everything we can to ensure that the implementation of the Parental Pensions Act is not delayed. During the crisis, the government was open to the people, and people understood the motivations of a government that had gone into a harsh saving regime. Unfortunately, we do not see the same honest conduct of the current government, but we hear the dark. The IRL won't give up without a fight. Our group in the Riigikogu tabled 1,000 amendments to the draft of the government union on the postponement of parental pension. Does the government want to deceive 226000 pensioners? The desire of the Interim Government to link the deferral of parental pension with its trust means that the draft is to be adopted quickly, without parliamentary debate. This is an extreme solution, which means blocking the parliamentary procedure by the government. Certainly, a bill that cuts pensions is not the place where we should go down that road. Rather, it shows the government's derogatory attitude toward the elderly and families with children. One minute more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U111	Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are gathered at the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. An emergency means an emergency, something caused by an unforeseen, unexpected event. Based on past experience, it could be an economic crisis, a political crisis, a military threat or a college where rapid decision-making by the Riigikogu is necessary, or something that could not be predicted in any way and that could not result in the ordinary pace of dealing with draft laws amending the organisation of the state, legislative acts. What is the agenda for the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu today? For the Interim Government, the reason for this haste is the need to increase the tax burden on businesses and to abolish its promise to fully implement the parental pension from 2015, i.e. to defraud the legitimate expectations of raised pensioners, which came into force by the law that came into force in 2012. Five euros per month for pensioners for one child is a sum that is clearly beyond the control of the current government. Is it really an emergency situation to take extra pension money away from pensioners in 2015 and needs a vote of confidence from the government? Good coalition politicians, perhaps you could have done better and given a 'giving' deferral of your parental pension to our retired parents by May 11, Mother's Day, a nice new coalition spring present for 226000 parents, a real and real 'caring' pattern from the new government. Sad, but the words "gift" and "caring" are in these quotes. So how did things come to be like this? In the hangover of the big wish concert that you put on the Reform Party, it was not noticed that in the left pocket that pensioners were allowed to fill with money, money is taken from the right pocket of the same pensioner. More vile, money is taken from the pockets of pensioners who have raised children who have been away from the labour market for several years while raising children at home and whose pension is lower for this reason. Are there really members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who think that paying five euros per month for raising a child from the next year, 2015 onwards, is a clear release, overpayment to a mother or grandmother? I really don't want to believe that. Is there something that is clearly out of hand for the current government to keep its word and keep its promises? The money is, at least, if you believe the Prime Minister's statement that this year's state budget alone is over EUR 40 million. Is there any reason not to believe our Prime Minister? Something doesn't add up. The Minister of Finance makes a good face at a bad game, but the actions, even today's extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, confirm the panic that there are really serious problems with the receipts of the state budget. So is the money over, as the Prime Minister claims, or is it bluffing? We have not, in fact, received a clear response from the Minister of Finance so far. I also read the interim government action plan. What I did not find there are the extraordinary issues of today's extraordinary session that we are discussing here. Not a word about delaying parental pension, not a word about increasing the tax burden on businesses, not a word about reducing the financing of roads. Is there an Action Plan No 2 of the Socialist and Reform Party coalition, which no one has seen and which lists both the activities mentioned above and those that are still planned, and a list of previous agreements that are also intended to be withdrawn in the future? However, there is a point on inclusion in the action plan. It seems to me that this point has completely disappeared in the coalition's version. Just as many times before this spring session today, it has to be said that there have been no negotiations or open discussions with the various parties and stakeholders. Moreover, the opinion of the stakeholders has not been asked at all. The good guys who promoted, involved and opened up this point in the action programme when you went to the government mean involving all parties involved! This does not just mean involving politicians from the Sots or Reform Party and representatives of your political support structures. And also, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, who rightly stand for equal treatment between men and women: the parental pension is the place where you can show your true face. After all, it is usually women who stay home with young children and who later retire... Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U113	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the debate on this bill in this hall, I remembered the Estonian literary classic work 'Pichord'. I'm going to quote it a little bit from somewhere in that part of the end that starts with Matilde saying, "What's in here? What does that mean? Who wants to rip us off? ' And his man Sander responds frothingly, 'This bum here with my bought pants on! The sulder your father thinks is a big business genius, but who doesn't know much about business as I do about poetry! 'Tittle Hänna' has been written by this bastard, not me! ' Matilde (long): 'What, how, who? Sander: 'I can't keep quiet any longer! There's a line I won't cross! This person used my trouble to lay down on me and do unheard-of strings on me! He sold me one of his stories that I gave out under my own name. ' Matilde: 'Ah, oh! Sander: 'Yeah, now you're groaning. But who was the one who forced me to write, who made you jerk off to a man whose spirit of poetry tendencies is no less pure than that of his father-in-law? ' Matilde (probably): 'But your grooming sonnets, do they include him? ' Sander (as well): 'No, they were from the great masters, not from some little shrimp-fucker! And then when the book is printed and praised and crowned with a prize, it will come, this poet, and will put a dagger on my chest: 'May the younger daughter of Vestman be my wife, or 'Little Hänna' the right author will be in the newspapers tomorrow! 'Laura: 'Tite, what does he speak? "Bite leaf: "True, but not full: I bought my pants with a 'Tittle Hänna' in front of me, he bought me houses. " Laura: " Houses? ' Matilde: 'Households? ' Vestman: 'I... houses? Sander: 'Yes, houses! Crash houses! That was the proposal and demand of this gallows. I had to pay the price in his father-in-law's eyes. And that's how I drove to St. Petersburg. ' Vestman: 'Where did you get the money? Sander: "You gave me the money! ' (Long exciting silence.) Vestman: 'You will come to my daughter with my own property? "Bite leaf: 'Yeah, I've got my own. ' Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U114	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U115	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! However, I would like to talk about some other issues on the draft we are discussing, although there has already been a great deal of talk about the draft, both inside and outside this Chamber. First of all, I am surprised that Mr Allik, a good colleague, has not understood that the draft under discussion is actually cutting pensions. They're cutting pensions! Compared to the current law, pensions are reduced to parents who have reached retirement age. And unfortunately, the more children there are, the greater the cuts. What Jaak Allik said through the question was that the annual indexation would result in an increase in the pension is a completely different matter. It is also enshrined in the current law and the proposed bill does not envisage any increase in pensions. So, yes, let us be clear and clear to everyone: if the draft is adopted, it is a reduction in pensions for pensioners who have children compared to the law in force. On average, the father or mother who raised two children will have a reduction of EUR 120 per year. Secondly, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly stressed that children and families should be supported when they are young. That is correct, and that is why we have child benefits, birth grants and many other benefits, but that should not mean that we stop paying parental benefits or that parental benefits are nothing to do with raising children. This is just as silly as the fact that there is no point in collecting money in pension funds to secure your future, that all other such arrangements with which to secure your future should also be abolished. Parental pension is exactly the same part of the Estonian pension system as the second pension pillar. And it's not a bonus. This is compensation for the time when the parent's mother or father is away from the labour market and cannot contribute to pension pillars, but at the same time has to spend on raising children. A person without children can make pension payments, be active in the labour market and thus secure his or her future. So this is part of the current pension system. Thirdly, I would like to stress that light-handed changes in pension policy undermine confidence in the entire pension system and that is very bad. I would specifically like to emphasise that a precedent is being established at the moment. Not only is the pension being reduced, which is done for the first time in a re-independence Estonian country, but a precedent will be created in which pensions legalised during the previous government coalition will be abolished by the change of government. This is an example of a very bad political culture. If this is the case with promises that have already been legalised, if legitimate expectations that have been included in the law are abolished simply because one government is changing with another, then the citizen cannot have confidence in his country. He has no confidence that the increases and other benefits of child support adopted by law, as well as the other obligations entered into and foreseen by the law that the state will assume, whether they are covered by laws, even today, such as excise policy, etc., will not simply be thrown into the trash bin or cancelled when the next government takes office. This is certainly not the policy that the citizen expects and what the citizens of the Republic of Estonia really deserve. So I call on the government coalition to think very seriously! Unfortunately, the government coalition has played its way into a dead end today. There's no choice here. The adoption of the draft is linked to a vote of confidence, which means that if the government coalition does not press the green buttons here today, the time of this government will be changed. So, in fact, the coalition itself has played itself into a dead end, deprived the members of the coalition of the opportunity and freedom to decide differently. I'm terribly sorry about that. This step also essentially excludes parliamentary procedure and debate, as amendments cannot normally be discussed and voted on. This latter is also about the involvement that has been mentioned here and it has been pointed out that the target groups concerned are not involved. We know that we have not addressed families with child-rich families; we know what the opinion of the Alliance of pensioners is, of course, negative about this draft. But the worst part is, they haven't even been talked to. And now it has come to a situation where, in fact, the debate and involvement within Parliament are also being torpedoed. It is extremely unfortunate that the government coalition has decided to deal with the draft pension cuts in this way in an exceptional way, but the target groups affected by this draft will probably understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U116	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U117	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, A government representative from this speaker said that Parliament has adopted the draft law on increasing child support without a source of cover, which is true. Only in the past, the same minister has spoken in previous governments and in all his previous speeches about how this is an unacceptable behaviour. Interestingly, he has changed his mind and understanding in the new coalition. He also claimed that it was his personal view that the parental pension was unreasonable, but there were a number of members of the government and experts who were not as brave men as he was and did not dare to say it out loud. However, it seems to me that since, for some reason, the parental pension was postponed for three years rather than cancelled, the majority of the government coalition had to consider it reasonable. Otherwise, I cannot understand why it is postponed for three years, not being taken off at all when it is like a stupid thing. Even more is incomprehensible and it would be interesting to know how it will be done in three years' time. Does the government already have an understanding of what grants or legal provisions are going to be cut, from whom and what to take away, in order to apply the parental pension after three years? With regard to the following drafts to be discussed, we will see how the government, the so-called interim government, intends to increase various taxes unbridledly in order to fulfil its promises in some way. It just doesn't make any sense. The Minister was pleased that the government would be able to react operationally if the priorities changed. It is quite understandable to me, too, that when the new government takes office, it has new priorities and objectives, and it makes sense that it is planned to work towards these objectives. But in order to realise these objectives, resources are needed and these resources tend to be scarce, as well as ideas for additional resources. Opportunity in itself is positive and interesting. But how would we react if the rescue team were already working at our place, perhaps erase our burning house, and then suddenly announce that we're sorry, we're packing our things, we got a new message and we're quitting work here, because the new challenge is more important and more priority for us? It would be a strange move, but this is the way this temporary government has already done its job, and it seems that this is the way this government works. Strange moves have been made especially in the context of the family institution. Before Victory Day, we discussed here the draft law on partnership, a draft that seeks to reformulate the concept of family and family relations. Parental pension is not a bonus, it is a compensation for being away from the labour market, for these people contributing to society by giving birth to children with the most important assets and values, and thereby contributing more to society than others. That is why it is important that the parental pension is not postponed. As has been said, we do not have a clear understanding of what is really going to be done in three years' time. It is therefore reasonable not to support this draft today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U118	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U119	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Of course, it could be expected that criticism by the opposition would come from the government linking this draft to a vote of confidence and requesting a swift debate. However, I would like to reassure my good colleagues from the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance: I would point out that the parental pension will not be abolished, but postponed. Until 2018, the state will make additional payments to the second pension pillar, which will compensate for the State's suspended payments in the crisis years. This leads to a significant increase in pension costs. At the same time, the new coalition has taken into account the increase in pensions in the following year and the further increase in the tax-free rate of pensions, which, together with the overall increase in the tax-free rate, amounts to a total of EUR 23 per month. These changes increase the income of all pensioners, but in the case of a couple of pensioners who have raised a child, the parental pension increases the income of only one pensioner. We considered it fair to guarantee a higher income, however, for all pensioners. I think it is necessary to repeat once again that a pensioner whose child was born before 1 January 2013 is currently receiving a pension supplement of approximately EUR 10 per month for each child. It is paid for one of the parents and is paid for children born since the beginning of time, since 1999 and also for children born in 1999-2012 since 2013. This EUR 10 will not be taken away by anyone, and it will remain in force. From 1 January, this amount was to increase to EUR 15 per child per month. The government wishes to postpone the payment of the EUR 5 supplement until 2018. Until 2018, the State will make additional contributions to the second pension pillar to compensate for payments that have been interrupted in the meantime, this obligation will disappear, i.e. the need to cover the pension reform deficit will be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union! Your rhetoric is amazing at times. As a reminder, in 2009, during the reign of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, contributions to pension funds were suspended, which is, according to your rhetoric, the same questioning of government confidence. At the same time, the national reimbursement of student loans to families was also terminated without any analysis of family policy implications. All student parents who had taken out the loan missed the opportunity to receive compensation after graduation. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association were one of the parties who made these additional costs borne by the families. Is this not a deception that the IRL could be ashamed of or think of before it starts to accuse others of undermining the foundations of statehood? The Social Democrats have always tried to compromise, but of course we cannot do everything in the Riigikogu as we would like to do in an ideal world. While fully respecting the right of the opposition to use the parliamentary instruments allowed for the purpose of pushing or raising awareness of its objectives, which are an integral part of parliamentary democracy, I would like to draw attention here to the unfortunate double standards of the IRL. When the Social Democrats held night sessions last year to increase child support, we were completely tarred. By now, they have completely forgotten their rhetoric at the time. More understanding, ladies and gentlemen. The Social Democratic Party Group trusts the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U120	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu! According to § 137 (6) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, no amendments are put to the vote. Let's get to the final vote. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U121	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Before voting on this law, I ask for a presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U122	Please, two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U123	Please, you have that right! Honourable Riigikogu, please make a presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu! Pursuant to § 137 (7) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the final vote on this draft will take place. I am voting on the amendment of the Insurance Pensions Act and the National Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the related amendment of other laws Act and the Income Tax Act 685. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill, 30 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U124	...as compared to men, this makes them less retired. Men's and women's salaries and pensions are not guaranteed by your warm room calls, eloquences, or your posters. We need action! And parental pension is one way to do something tangible in that direction. Good former coalition partners from the Reform Party! Admit that you have clearly overreacted, misjudged, in a great spring of merciless Finlands. Are the earlier decisions written in the law really cost nothing? In the common coalition, even during the most difficult economic crisis, we managed not to reduce pensions. Then the economic situation of the country was very difficult compared to today. Deferral of parental pension for an unknown period is more a political inability than an inevitability arising from the economic situation. You yourself have voted in favour of introducing a parental pension in 2012. Big ones are people and politicians who can admit their mistakes. Do this, and you will see that correcting your mistake is not weakness or surrender, but nobleness and wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U125	Urmas Reinsalu, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U126	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, one quote: 'We all know that raising a child is a long and very diverse job, an important task that is full of unexpected events, but the reward for it is very difficult to measure. It would be fair for parents to receive a pension during their old age for night feeding, day - care and school trips, for making school pieces, and for other longer days of the day. Therefore, parental benefit can be further developed in the form of a parental pension designed to create security... [---] Certainly every new system raises questions and needs to get used to. At the same time, I believe that we have found a rather good and comprehensive way of supporting parents both when the child is small and when he or she is an adult and an older. I sincerely hope that this forward-looking decision will further support the decision of families to have the first, second, third or even more children now. These parents are currently expected to receive some €60 per year in addition to one child, still for more children to be born. " So wrote Hanno Pevkur, then Minister of Social Affairs, when the Parental Pensions Act was passed in the Riigikogu. These arguments are absolutely correct, they are relevant, and they have also been recognised by social scientists. First of all, parental pensions are not a gift from the state, but a decision of value, the principle of which is one: because of the time spent at home with children, the mother must not receive a lower pension. And this is a value decision that can be said to be really unfair. For why should a parent receive a nominal pension supplement in a situation where a childless pensioner does not receive it, as the incumbent Minister of Social Affairs, Helmen Küttt, has said. That this is basically the wrong policy. IRL's position in proposing the idea of a parental pension was simple and clear: it is a value decision to equalise parents' work in raising children to those who worked with the child while the parent was at home. I think that one of the serious problems we have seen in this draft is the issue of the style of governance. Jürgen Ligi said from this speaker that it is indeed very important for the new government to be involved, has always been and will be involved, but it was precisely in this draft that inclusion was not important because it would have been less informative. I am sorry that the same opinion was taken when the Riigikogu Finance Committee was dealing with this draft. The views of the stakeholders are very clear and unambiguous. The Association of Estonian Pensioners' Associations expressed unequivocal support for the adoption of this draft in 2012, and I quote: 'Considering that Estonia's biggest problems in the coming decade are linked to the demographic situation, this is a step in the right direction. Those members of society who have assumed responsibility for society, with a view to raising children, and with it bearing additional costs, will be recognised by society. ' Now we are drawing this argument down, and it is no wonder that the Association of Estonian Pensioners has sent back, after the government issued the draft procedure, a statement in which it deplores the postponement of the parental pension. 'The elderly have now waited two years and taken into account that the fall in real pension from 2015 will be cut. Now the coalition has shown that the government does not keep its promises. The board of the Association of Estonian Pensioners clearly considers this to be an inappropriate behaviour to the rule of law. " The Association of Estonian Pensioners states that on 6 June the Stenbock House held a festive event, where open governance and partnership were discussed. Unfortunately, we have not seen either openness or partnership. The reason why the IRL tabled its package of amendments was, of course, one: we are opposed to the country breaking its word. The government, rather than having this debate in Parliament, rather than adopting the compromise proposed by the IRL, which we have been proposing for two weeks, the compromise proposal that we are excluding this specific provision from the amendments to the pension law, considered that this draft must be linked to the maintenance of the government. I think it's very symbolic. One factor is the confidence of 226000 older people in the word of the country and the trust of the current government on the other side. IRL did not support this government's entry into office and IRL does not intend to support this government in breaking the word given to pensioners. I am categorically opposed to what the government representative was trying to formulate here, as if it were a postponement of the parental pension for a while. This is not the case, the actual government agenda is based on the views of both Hanno Pevkur and Jürgen Ligi. This fundamental change will be cancelled, and if this government continues, it will also be cancelled from 2018. This three-year postponement is hypocritical and dim. The question of why there is an attempt to oppose the various social groups, the families now rich in children and the generation of the elderly, who are now grandparents and who have raised their children. It's an immoral pattern, and you can't go along with it. It would be exactly the same to say that the government needs this money now in order to build a new ministry building or to find additional money for ferrying, and the cover it receives by breaking the word given to pensioners. This reasoning is not worthy of a government claiming to be an inclusive government. The government itself states two things in its draft explanatory memorandum: firstly, the cost of the draft is low. It is in the government's position in a black white letter, and secondly, it concerns a small number of people. What motives the government took in this view is unclear to me. On the one hand, 226000 people are spoken of, which is a small figure according to the government, and on the other hand, this figure is irrelevant in macroeconomic terms. The real reason the government wants to make this change, let us say straight out, is politically cynical. In 2012, the Reform Party and other parties supported this step in this Chamber, which has also been supported by social scientists and by the principles of the European Social Charter, it is also consistent with the fact that the time of raising a child is taken into account in the pension system. The real reason for this behaviour is very simple: it is revenge. This is revenge for what has been said repeatedly on this Parliament's platform. As one of IRL's election promises was a parental pension, 226000 pensioners are now being paid back. It's a very brutal and cynical day policy that has been brought into this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U127	Now the time is up...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U128	Friends, you've taken an important and difficult step, committed this to trusting the government. The IRL will vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U129	Thomas Tõniste, please! Three minutes extra time, but I'm asking you to fit in with that time, not like the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, What is happening here today shows very vividly the attitude of the temporary government towards the most important work done by our parents to raise children. We have not heard any substantive reasoning. What's going on here? They are simply trying to contrast: either child benefit or parental pension. It's very, very sad in itself. For years, many parents, mainly mothers, have been very disappointed and anxious about why only those who are about to give birth or who are now born are valued. Why are they worse when they have a child of 5 to 6 years old, 10 to 12 years old, why does the state not care about them? The cost is the same and they give their children, and they now guarantee the sustainability of the country. That's the money we're sharing here. But it's like they're nothing. Deferral of parental pension, cuts to 226000 pensioners. We're going after their wallet with their own money. An average pensioner with two children will receive EUR 120 per year, EUR 360 over three years, a total of EUR 86 million. Perhaps it is worth pointing out here that one parent receives an additional pension, not both. This is, in my opinion, a matter of value: does the state carry out its duty under law, is it a man of his word or is he not? That's a wider question. We often worry about why politicians are not tolerated, why they are not trusted. But actually, that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna give you the floor, we're gonna take it back, we're gonna do what we want. The elections are approaching, new promises seem more popular, affect more people, put the money there. At the same time, it has emerged from many studies that one of Estonia's biggest problems is the lack of confidence. People don't have confidence. That's exactly what I've been talking about so far. With one hand, let's see that ah, let's change it, let's do it the other way around. Very many children are not born because of this lack of confidence; many people want to leave the country. By voting on the draft with a vote of confidence in the government, the coalition asks for the trust of the Riigikogu in order for the current Riigikogu to allow pensioners to be deceived. I want the strength of those politicians who support it. It shows your attitude, and it can be said that you have an understanding of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U131	Siim Kisler, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U132	Good Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, the reasoning behind this draft. I wonder if the government doesn't want to understand the effects of this bill or cynically tells a lie. The explanatory memorandum states very precisely, with the precision of one person, that this bill concerns 226992 people. And the next sentence says that the target group can be considered small. Do you not understand what this number means, or is it simply cynically churned? It is also clear that the pension is paid monthly, on a continuous basis each year. However, the drafters have written completely directly, with an open text that 'the frequency of impact is low'. How can it be small?! You don't want to tell the clear truth. Speaking of the effects of this bill, Marko Pomerants said that pensioners would get a match with their own money. If we look at the substance of the bill, it's even worse. There are only two points in the draft. One of these concerns the increase in the tax-free income rate on pensions, which would increase the state's disbursements by EUR 4 to 6 million per year. The second point is the withdrawal of the parental pension, with which the State Treasury will retain EUR 27 to 30 million per year, depending on the year. In the end, therefore, in the coming years, the pensioner will be taken away from EUR 23.24 million, depending on the year. The worst thing about this thing, however, is where they take it and where they give it. In fact, there is a redistribution; they are not the same target groups. Who's gonna win this redistribution? Wins those who don't have children who haven't raised children. Who's gonna lose with this bill? Those who have raised children will lose. Who loses less? Less loses those who have one child or two children. And who loses more? The more children a person has raised, the more he loses as a result of the adoption of this bill. This is a clear message that if you raise more children, you should have less pensions and make pension conditions more favourable for those who have not raised children. That is the content of this draft. This is particularly painful for children's families. Already following the first reading of this bill, following this whole procedure, I have felt that the current government union has no sense at all of the situation in which the parents, or especially those mothers, have more children who have raised more children. There is always talk about the key of one or two children; however, there is no perception at all of the situation of mothers who have been absent from the labour market for a long time on a number of occasions does not perceive what this has meant for their careers, what it means for their monthly salary numbers. When they return to the labour market, they must start from scratch in substance, rebuild their careers and try to raise their pay numbers in order to receive a better pension. These people are told today that your pension should be lower. This bill clearly strengthens the view that why do I have children? I'd rather travel, I'm free to go to the movies tonight, because I don't have to be home with the kids. In the end, I live a more fun, freer, financially prosperous life, and as a result, the state tells me that my pension will eventually be higher. That is the content of this draft. It increases pensions for people who do not raise children and reduces pensions for those who raise children. A temporary government must also think long-term. It can't be that we're temporarily in power and don't think about tomorrow at all, let's just think about today. You can't do that! The message of this draft, this current attitude of the government union, is disastrous for the people of Estonia in the long term. When people feel that there is no need for secondary growth, people draw conclusions from this attitude, the message themselves. Dear members of the government union, before you vote in favour of this bill, think hard! You will vote for those with fewer children to have a higher pension, and those with more children to have a lower pension, and the more children to have, the lower pension. Please don't do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U133	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U134	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 644. The Commission's rapporteur is Rannar Vassilyev, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, Since the content of the draft amendment to the VAT Act was already presented at first reading, I will focus first and foremost on this...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U136	I'm sorry, waitress, just a minute! [[Summing in the hall, the manager ringing the bell.]] Thank you for listening to the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U137	Thanks for me too! I will focus, above all, on what has taken place in the Commission, as the format of the second reading report provides. In short, however, the purpose of the draft. The draft has been submitted to us to limit the deduction of VAT paid on the purchase and use of passenger cars and on the purchase of goods and services for passenger cars, instead of taxation on the own consumption of passenger cars. In relation to the draft, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been approached by representatives of several interest groups and several economic operators, as well as representatives of taxpayers and accountants, for example. The Committee on Finance met with them on 6 May, when we held a discussion in the form of a round table to discuss this issue and to examine it more thoroughly. This same round table raised a number of quite detailed questions, apart from the general issues, from which proposals were drawn up. It was mainly the taxpayer's association, but also the representatives of accountants and companies made proposals. Consequently, we decided to convene a working group meeting on 22 May to deal in detail with possible amendments and technical issues. At both meetings, both at the round table and in the working group, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board took part and we tried to find a common part in order to improve the draft law. Of course, it was not or could not have been the aim of reaching a consensus in terms of real content, because the representatives of companies also declared that they did not like the whole system or the whole approach. However, they agreed to contribute to making the draft as good as possible, despite everything. Thanks to them for that, anyway. I will give an overview of the issues that arose at both the round table and the working group, and I will try to comment briefly on them. In the second half of the presentation, I will present six amendments which were reached at these meetings and which were approved by the majority in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The first topic on which the focus was focused concerned the limit on the deduction of input VAT, which is 50%. This issue has been topical in the exchange of letters between the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission, as the draft requires the European Commission to grant a derogation from the VAT Directive. As a result, the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission have been actively engaged. One subject on which correspondence has been held concerns precisely this 50% restriction and the reason why such a restriction has been chosen. The Ministry of Finance has explained this in a letter dated 24 April. This letter has also been added to the explanatory memorandum, if there is a desire to have a thorough examination of it, then it is available to all members of the Riigikogu. The second issue concerned the justification of the two-year limitation for the purpose of regulating the right to deduct input tax. In this respect, it has actually been clarified that in the event of a change in the use of a passenger car within two years and a change in the use of a car for purposes which do not allow 100% deduction, the deduction of input VAT must be adjusted during the period of taxation of the change in the use of a passenger car in proportion to the use of a passenger car within two years. I'm trying to make this point a little easier. If the car has been acquired exclusively for use as a result of the company's activities, i.e. it is initially considered that the deduction for input VAT could be 100%, and after a year, for example, it turns out that the car is actually used for private purposes, then the additional VAT must be paid according to the proportion that is after the start of private use. For example, in the two-year period, if the function changes from one year to the next, the proportion decreases by one-half, or one-quarter. I do not know if this idea has now become clearer, but this is the content of this issue. It also raised the issue of which considerations have been taken to mean that the burden of proof for the taxable person is the case when cars are used exclusively for business purposes. The draft is now specified and the words 'which must be certified by the taxable person' are deleted. Thus, the burden of proof is excluded for the taxable person. In practice, this means that if a debate with the Tax and Customs Board arises as to whether the behaviour has been correct, the Tax and Customs Board, as in other cases, asks for a document that the 100% deduction in the case of input VAT is indeed correct. The subject of discussion was the methodology of the calculation given in the table of the explanatory memorandum and the question whether such a theoretical calculation could be fully realised in practice. Who has examined the explanatory memorandum knows that this table concerned the tax burden of a private individual and a company in relation to the use of a passenger car and their comparison. Information was also requested as to whether alternative regulatory options were also intended to achieve the same objective. For example, the distinction between different groups established on the basis of engine power and VAT refunds based on them, including exemptions for electric cars or hybrid cars, was mentioned. They asked why this topic was out of the question. It was considered that the measure limiting the deduction of input VAT was chosen because the private use of the company's passenger car would be taxed on the basis of the average use of the passenger car in business. The alternative is not taxation depending on the technical characteristics of the vehicle, as the use of the company's assets for private use cannot be taxed on the basis of the technical conditions of the property, such as its environmental friendliness. Nor is it an alternative to continuing to implement the current regime by increasing the taxable value of private consumption. This would harm the interests of taxpayers who make relatively little use of passenger cars and therefore buy less motor fuel and other goods and services for passenger cars. Therefore, limiting the deduction of input VAT is more accurate and fairer than increasing the taxable value of private consumption. It was also a question of compliance with European Union law. In this regard, the Ministry has been in contact with the European Commission. The question of whether or not the draft is compatible with European law will be answered if the European Commission and the Council of the European Union are authorised to benefit from the VAT exemption. Six amendments in short. The deadline for amendments, which was 21 May, no proposals were received from Riigikogu members, committees or political groups. The Committee on Finance decided to table six amendments to the draft. The amendments were discussed at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 3, 12, 7 and 26 June, at a total of four meetings. The first amendment clarifies the concept of own use. The use of a passenger car for own use for non-business purposes is not taxed in the future, instead the right to deduct input tax is limited. In the case of taxis and school cars, the deduction of input VAT is allowed at 100% even if the car is used primarily for taxi and school transport. Therefore, the use of these cars for personal or non-business purposes is not excluded and will continue to be taxed as own use, i.e. in the same way as today. This proposal was supported by consensus. The second proposal complements the law in such a way that, for the purposes of the VAT Act, a passenger car is a category M1 vehicle whose maximum mass does not exceed 3500 kilograms and which, in addition to the driver's seat, does not have more than eight seats. This proposal was also supported by consensus. The reason why the mass restriction was introduced is due to the European Commission's proposal. In general, this restriction is also applied by other countries. The draft submitted by the Ministry of Finance initially simply provided for a category limitation, but the European Commission's proposal was also to include a mass limitation. Amendment 3 For the purpose of avoiding double taxation, the provision of a passenger car for remuneration to a taxable person's employee, servant or a member of the management or control body shall not be considered as turnover, as the private use of a company's passenger car is limited to 50% deduction of input tax. In other words, if a company gives a car to its employee for a fee, it does not qualify for classic turnover and does not have to pay any additional VAT. The point is to avoid double VAT. There were five members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed and three abstentions. Amendment 4. Where a taxable person uses the proportion of business and non-business to deduct input VAT on goods and services acquired for his own business, that proportion shall also apply to goods and services purchased for cars and passenger cars. In view of § 30 (3), it is not justified to deduct input VAT in respect of passenger cars by more than 50%. This concerns those companies whose activities are not 100% enterprise and, according to the proportion of their activities, they are also entitled to deduct input tax. Amendment 5 Paragraph 30 (4) of the VAT Act provides for cases for which the 50% deduction limit does not apply. Paragraph 30 (4) (5) is specified in such a way that the right to deduct 100% of VAT is not applicable when a passenger car is paid to a taxable person's employee, servant or member of the management or control body. Paragraph 30 (6) also specifies that the tax authorities must be informed on the VAT return form of both passenger cars for which input tax is deducted to 50% and passenger cars for which input tax is deducted to 100%. Amendment 6 concerns the entry into force clause. The amendments to the VAT Act entail the need to apply for a derogation under the VAT Directive. The Commission also considered here the possibility of linking the entry into force of the Act with the entry into force of the Council of the European Union Decision. In that case, the law would have entered into force the second month after the authorisation was granted. However, it was found that in this case it would not be unambiguously clear when the law would enter into force. In other words, there may be a problem with this option that the taxable person is not informed exactly when the law will enter into force. It cannot be assumed directly that taxable persons, who may be quite large on this draft, will be able to monitor when the exemption from the VAT directive is granted to us by Europe and will calculate when the law will enter into force. Consequently, a specific date of entry into force was chosen, assuming that this decision could reach its final format by October at the latest. With this in mind, we have two possible options, which were put to a competitive vote, one deadline was 1 December and the other was 1 January. Theoretically, November 1 could have been considered. In the competitive vote, the option of 1 December was more supported. This was put to the vote as an amendment from the Commission, which would adjust the date of entry into force currently in the draft, by 1 July. The proposal was supported and consequently Amendment 6 postpones the date of entry into force of the law from 1 July to 1 December. As the lead committee, the Committee on Monetary Affairs' proposal to stop reading the draft is a second reading. This proposal was supported by 6 and 5 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U138	I'll mark the first half of it first. A precise justification can be found in the explanatory memorandum which mentions studies carried out at European level. According to Copenhagen Economics studies, this percentage could be 70 to 80. In Britain, this issue has also been studied in depth, probably the most comprehensively from European countries. Similarly, a labour force survey of Statistics Estonia has been used to determine this proportion, where Estonian residents were asked which means of transport they use mainly to work. These studies have led to current proportions. Whether the average proportion in terms of use is 50: 50 or 40: 60 is certainly difficult to say with great certainty, but now 50% has been reached. This was one of the important issues in the correspondence between the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance, and the European Commission is satisfied with the justifications as of now. At least, if you think it's a filter, that's where you get the recipe for 50%. As far as car tax is concerned, car tax in this form is not in itself an alternative. In the case of car tax, the acquisition of a car by legal persons and private persons is not normally considered separately. Depends on how somebody has imposed this tax, whether or not they are based on the market, price, CO2 emissions, etc. The options vary from country to country. The main thing, however, is that it does not solve the problem of how to tax, in contrast, private cars and cars of legal persons, which are also used for private travel.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U139	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U140	Good manager! Good waitress! I read § 30, where there are exceptions for which 100% input tax can be recovered. Paragraph 5 states that if a passenger car is used exclusively for business purposes. Who can prove that I don't use my professional car for business alone? If I've registered my company at my home address, I can park at his home. If my family is working in the same company, they can ride with me in this car, use this car. How do I know if I can get 50% or 100% VAT back?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U141	Thank you. We had a very thorough discussion on this issue in the Commission. In principle, if the tax authorities suspect that the car is not 100% used for business purposes, they will turn to the taxable person and ask him to prove that the car has been 100% used by the company. These examples, when the company is registered at the same address as the person living in, have also been discussed in depth in the Commission, and here is finally the question of proof and the burden of proof. There is no such rule of law as to what to do in such a case. Well, I guess that's finally going to be the point of proof, as it is in other cases. During this long process, a lot of attention has been paid to these issues in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U142	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If a private vehicle is used for business purposes, why is it not possible to refund 50% of VAT on a private vehicle if it is also in double use? How does a private vehicle differ from a company vehicle?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U144	Thank you. The difference is mainly due to the fact that a private individual is not subject to VAT.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U145	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, Would it be possible, however, to speak up a little more about this communication with the European Union? It is known that the European Union initially opposed this 50%. In Latvia, I think it's 20%. Where, however, did this Estonia come from at 50%, and how was the agreement reached with the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U147	It is not correct to say that the European Union was against. Rather, some aspects were asked to be clarified, including the origin of this proportion. In the context of countries, the picture is actually quite written. The percentage varies from country to country. There are those where it's greater than 50, and there are those where it's smaller. This is, of course, a proposal on the basis of the country's own cognitive study, which then the European Commission has had to consider. There are those who have a deduction limit of 70 to 80%, and there are those who have a lower limit of 70 to 80%. In general, most countries in the European Union apply such a limit, i.e. 100% cannot be deducted. But as I mentioned in my report, it is difficult to explain in very detail why this percentage is just 50. Well, that's the question of the ability and will of research-based reasoning. The European Commission is now satisfied with a proportion of 50: 50, but at first the Ministry of Finance was asked to provide more detailed information as to why this proportion was chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U148	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U149	Thank you. I still don't understand a few things. For example, if an entrepreneur lives in Harjumaa, 30 kilometres outside the city, does electrical works or something like that and drives his work car 10 or 20 kilometres away to work, who is the smart one who says what is private driving and what is not? Secondly, did you also discuss in the committee why the members of the Riigikogu should not pay special preferential tax on their cars? It could still be that all the authorities of the state, all members of the Riigikogu, pay a special discount tax on their cars. Why is such a distinction made? Thirdly, have you discussed such matters, that if, for example, the state brings a person to court in another city, from Tallinn to Tartu, it will compensate considerably less if the person using a private car is compensated for at work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U150	Thank you. No, I do not have any business organisations that would have announced that they would like this draft immensely and that they would have publicly supported it. I have not heard it in the media and all these organisations should be questioned in order to identify it otherwise than through letters received by the media or the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If you want to know a specific business organisation, that is certainly not what I am going to call it right now. What has been the benefit of inclusion? I do not think that inclusion a priori means that if they are opposed, it will not be implemented. That in itself doesn't mean that. However, I do think that, and the process of this draft procedure has also shown this, that if it is possible to improve the draft law, it should be tried by inclusion. I can say that the six amendments made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs have arisen as a result of inclusion. They may not mean that they agree with the whole thing, but I think that these six amendments will make the draft better and its implementation more sensible and effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U151	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U152	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Did business organisations make so few proposals, or was the other proposals not suitable for the initiator of the draft? Perhaps you can tell me, on whose initiative or by which organisations these six proposals have come at their core, and why these proposals were supported in particular? You may also mention some important proposals that were not supported, but which were seriously discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U153	Thank you. These proposals have come to this point because the initiator, the Tax and Customs Board, which as the tax authorities will be monitoring these issues in the future, and also the business organisations considered them reasonable proposals. In their case, a common section was found and, accordingly, they have been completed and brought before you. Of course, business organisations and interest groups had more than six amendments, but we tried to find those where we saw consensus or potential for consensus. The amendments began with the'very general', i.e. above all, the need for such a law in the first place, which was the most fundamental issue. And what's to deny here, most of the business organisations that turned to us thought that the current system would work better. With regard to the amendments that have come to you, the biggest contribution is perhaps the taxpayers' union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U154	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U155	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm asking about the deadline for entry into force of the law. You have written in the draft that the Act will enter into force on 1 December 2014. What gives you such assurance? The European Commission has not yet given its consent. Perhaps it would be wise to learn from mistakes. This year's budget has already been planned for the money resulting from this draft. If you pass the law, you will plan these funds again in the next budget. Would it not be wise not to count on this money until the law can be actually passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U156	I'm starting somewhere. First of all, as far as the budget for this year is concerned, it was not possible to foresee the money to be received when this law entered into force, because the state budget can only count on the revenue for which the law provides for the possibility. It is remembered that the budget for this year was brought to the Riigikogu last year, knowing that this law would enter into force, but then coalition partners in the Reform Party and the IRL corrected it. As regards the following year and the question of whether or not the European Commission will be authorised by 1 December, as I referred to in my report, the Commission's decision is expected to come in July. This means that the expected final decision of the Council can come in September-October. In the event that this scenario should apply, that no authorisation has been obtained by 1 December, rather than whether this would happen, is likely to be known somewhat earlier, the legislator will also be obliged to make changes. The fact that we are adopting a law on which we do not yet have the authorisation of the European Commission is in itself nothing exceptional. We have done this here before, very often in the case of reverse charge, for example, last spring. This is a relatively normal process. That is why the time limit for entry into force must be as reasonable as possible so that, on the one hand, those who incur tax liability or whose tax liability changes have, on the other hand, been notified in advance and able to act accordingly and, on the other hand, the likelihood that the Commission has not received an authorisation at the time of entry into force of the law has been reduced to a minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U157	Thank you. Please, was Urmas Reinsalu a procedural question? Please turn on the mike!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'm talking all friendly, not at all. In general, I try to be very generous in interpreting the Rules of Procedure, and that is also reasonable. But when I look at the explanatory statement on this bill, it reminds me a little of the Russian union meeting minutes. If I take the first page...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U159	Do you have a procedural question about how this bill is being dealt with here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U160	This started with a tax liability of EUR 1000 when the monthly bills become so large. All the calculations have shown that the tax burden on companies is increasing by 30 to 50 million each year. Now we put a new load on the users of passenger cars. And this is not only about passenger cars, because the Committee on Monetary Affairs has made a correction in its sitting that we cannot discuss. It is very clear here that all cars with a mass of up to 3.5 tonnes are covered by this amendment. This means that also so-called pie cars, buses with an unladen weight of less than 3 500 kilograms, go under it. What does that mean? So far, the workers' cars didn't need to be fucked up with VAT. It was clear that it was a work car, it wasn't a passenger car that could take your family rides and everything else. We all keep driving journals. I think it's very clear in the driving diary where you've been and what you've done. At the same time, I'm sure a lot of people fill out their driving journals afterwards and still show that everything is okay. I once again support this idea of interrupting reading today's draft law. We could review all the points that make it possible to waltz one way or the other, and write in the draft very clearly all the implementation moments so that the law cannot be understood in two ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U161	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U162	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I think there are two things: one is the substantive impact of this bill; the other is the way in which this bill is dealt with and cooperation with business organisations, or rather its lack. State, the government doesn't create wealth. Prosperity and prosperity are created by entrepreneurs, people who work and earn value. The attitude that the current government has taken with regard to the legal provisions governing entrepreneurship and the economic environment is not a good attitude. With regard to the annex to the VAT returns, Mait Palts, Director of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, noted that this is the worst example of inclusion in the last ten years, rather, a lack of involvement. When the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs presented this draft to Parliament today on behalf of the lead committee, my questions were related to the attitudes of business organisations, whether they are in favour of the draft or against it. I did not get a specific answer to my questions. In the meantime, I have been familiar with these positions, which are unambiguously destructive to this draft. The position of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is no, the position of the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises is no, the position of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association is an unambiguous no. The Taxpayers' Association also states in its referral that the specific amendments made to the Commission may make the draft proposal even more restrictive. In other words, they may put the operator who actually uses the car at a disadvantage compared to the person who uses the car less. These initiatives, where we are on the move trying to get tax revenue from the business environment through such steps to cover the needs of the current budget, do not generate, firstly, the trust that we talked about for a very long time during the first item on the agenda. Secondly, their message and signal are, in fact, the deterioration of the Estonian business environment, or, as the taxpayers' association points out, the deterioration of the small business environment. The state of our economy is not cloudless at all. Instead of dealing with growth issues, however, the government is trying to push through steps in extraordinary sessions, which, firstly, increase the burden of business and, secondly, make regulations even more confusing, the real impact of which cannot be objectively assessed. Who came to that conclusion? To this conclusion, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu reached the Riigikogu Finance Committee in analysis. Friends! Today we have abused the trust of the elderly generation. The item on the agenda currently under discussion raises the following question: It is a question of whether the government and Parliament envisage that business organisations are a partner, that entrepreneurs are a partner of the state's central authority, or whether they actually consider them to be inferior, subject to rules only above, without listening to their opinions. IRL is of the opinion that we are taking the wrong step and reducing the trust in the Estonian business environment, the trust of Estonian entrepreneurs in the state. Therefore, our group also considers it reasonable to interrupt the second reading of the previous speaker's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U163	Thank you, President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. Where did this 50% come from, and why have Social Democrats always supported car tax? This is essentially the introduction of a car tax, one additional tax, because companies still have to pay special preferential tax. Why don't you talk about things with the right names?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U164	Thank you. As far as the first question is concerned, the clarification of what has been run somewhere, whether it is, for example, the discharge of electricity, remains the question of proof; it is in no way possible to write it into law. I'm sure it's quite a lot of work for the tax office, but the Tax and Customs Board has been involved in drafting the draft, also participated in Commission meetings, and they have accepted this increase in workload. There will certainly be these borderline drivers in the future, and in that case it is the burden of proof. The second question concerned employees in the public sector. The issue of VAT is not topical here, because classic public sector organisations are not subject to VAT. If, for example, it is a public-owned company or foundation, they are subject to exactly the same rules as everyone else. So with VAT, members of the Riigikogu, members of the government, officials have no connection here, which is why the VAT law does not regulate this relationship in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U165	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U166	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm buying a car today, I'm saying it's for business, I get 100% VAT back, I keep a proper driving diary. According to what law can anyone oblige me to prove that I only use this car for business? The IRS has a duty to accuse me, but I have no obligation to prove that I am not a camel with two humps.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U167	Basically, under the same law, all this can be done, but the question is that the Tax and Customs Board can ask for evidence that the car has been used for 100% business. The general logic is that 50% is the rule and 100% refund is rather an exception that requires further documentation. That's actually the whole logic of this law. Depending on the person, it may seem sympathetic or less sympathetic, but that is the general idea of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U168	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U169	Thank you. Let me get this straight. Taxi have a 100% refund. If I get a taxi license, I'm gonna drive it around nice and easy, and I'm gonna do a couple of business trips, isn't there a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U170	Taxi and study travel is, indeed, subject to exceptions in most other countries of the European Union due to the nature of the work. Well, that's a border question again, isn't it? Finally, it must be demonstrated here whether it is a fictitious taxi licence used to optimise the tax burden, or even something more than simply an attempt to optimise taxes, maybe it is an illegal activity, or it is a classical taxi service provider to which this exception applies. This exception has been agreed by consensus both in the Commission and everywhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U171	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U172	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question concerns inclusion. The second-reading explanatory memorandum refers to meetings with business organisations and the taxpayers' association and expressed different views at meetings. My question is specific, because I couldn't explain the explanatory statement. Which operators' organisations have approved the draft as it has come to second reading and allegedly will come to third reading tomorrow, and which operators' organisations are opposed to this draft? Please tell me by organization, because this is not clear from the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U173	Thank you. That's a good question. In order to respond, I should now undertake all business organisations that exist in Estonia or who consider themselves to be their representative, and carry out a specific survey, who are in favour of the draft and who oppose it. While I am able to answer the question, I will certainly not be able to do so. I can't read you a specific list right now. I can say, however, that the amendments, which are six, have been tabled in the context of the involvement of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, i.e. in close contact with the organisations representing companies and with the representatives of other interest groups. I think that there has been much more involvement in this draft than is generally the case with draft laws. This draft is also well-founded and necessary, as it certainly creates a broad discussion in society and affects a large number of Estonian people, including most, if not all, Estonian entrepreneurs. Therefore, these roundtables and working groups have also been convened and tried to find a joint role between the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and representatives of interest groups. As I mentioned in my report, there is certainly no reason to believe that business organisations have given any consensual support to this draft. Without a very thorough survey or research, I can say that there may not be much support for the draft if it is conducted. This has also been expressed by business organisations at meetings; there is nothing new or surprising about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U174	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U175	Thank you. This government union engagement policy is such an interesting thing, it's like shadows on the wall of a cave. On the previous item, Jürgen Ligi also said that inclusion was very necessary, that nights and days would be included, so that the earth shook, but that was not the case in this particular matter, because it would have been uninformed. Now, on this item, you said that as many as possible are involved, that there are round tables organised nights and days. My question is what specific business organisation has started to support this draft in this form. Name a specific organisation to understand what this involvement has done. You said you couldn't tell a particular organization's position, because it's confusing, you should have prepared. But I have a specific question: which organisation, as a result of its involvement, started to support this bill, perhaps you can still remember how much work there was, didn't there have to be something in the operational memory and what were the objections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U176	I am about to arrive at compliance with § 103 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and ask for an interpretation of this section by the President of the sitting. The explanatory memorandum states that a joint address was sent, statements were expressed, views were heard and opinions were expressed. All of this, however, goes unanswered as to what these views were and what the Commission's position was. Paragraph 103 states clearly that the second-reading explanatory memorandum must state the views of experts and other persons who have taken part in the proceedings. My question now is that on the first page of the explanatory memorandum it has been stated that they have submitted their views, and the point. I think that, in this form, the text of the Rules of Procedure cannot be interpreted, but should be open in substance. In addition, the commentary on this section of the Rules of Procedure Act states that the Commission's substantive opinion on those positions should also be rejected. If we take a stand now, then we take a stand again! It seems to me that we are creating some totally orwelllike Big Brother society right now. Let's talk about involvement, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U178	... while we essentially go against § 103 of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U179	Thank you, Urmas Reinsalu! I am also generous, I have allowed you to speak for 50 seconds longer than usually the time for a procedural question. This is not a procedural question in this context, but a substantive question that can be put to the rapporteur by the Commission. Since you already have two questions, perhaps this question can be asked by someone else from your group or from a similar point of view. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, a procedural question, not a substantive one!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U180	Thank you, Mr President. The session of the Riigikogu, all related to this format, including the documents submitted, shall be organised by the President of the sitting. My question to the President was whether the explanatory memorandum to the draft currently under discussion was in accordance with § 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I recall that a few months ago, the President of the sitting took a break for a draft decision of the Riigikogu on a specific foreign mission to discuss whether additional documents from the government should be included in the explanatory memorandum. The matter was discussed and it was considered that it was not necessary. This is also a fundamental issue in Parliament's working culture and in the future interpretation of documents. What is the President's interpretation of how the second part of § 103 should be furnished?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U181	Thank you. The Riigikogu Board does not discuss the wording of the explanatory notes; the Commission is responsible for this. Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U182	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Just in case, I'm asking you that there's a fortress in your dealings with the entrepreneurs. If this law enters into force on 1 December and the car is brought here at the end of November, will the old law apply? Or will it also be said at the beginning of December that someone is now going to change something proportionally afterwards? The second question is on Amendment 5, which states that if a passenger car is used for the purposes mentioned in the derogations for at least two consecutive years, input VAT can be deducted. Did the Commission also have a debate on how much this wording could lead to VAT fraud and how to combat them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U183	Thank you. First, answer the first question. If this bill finally becomes a law, until 1 December, when the law enters into force, today's procedure will apply in all respects. In this sense, no one who has been subject to the law in force in October or November will be punished ex-post. It is not the right word here, and the legal assessment is based on the law in force. According to this, the Tax and Customs Board is also planning its behaviour. As regards the question of whether this issue, which has been referred to, opens doors for fraud, I can say that the whole issue of fraud was one of the most topical issues in terms of substance, and it went through all kinds of versions. Well, there's still a certain burden of proof here, and that's the job of the Tax and Customs Board. After all, in all other areas, they do exactly the same, proof of the illegal nature of reducing the tax burden through fictitious activities is their job. Any exceptions and time limits necessarily raise such questions and they also arose in the Commission, the round tables and the working group. So attention has been paid to this issue. I was not asked this question, but I am still taking this opportunity to comment, unfortunately, on Urmas Reinsalu's question as to whether the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft law refers to the views of different organisations. In fact, the text of the explanatory memorandum, from point 2 to the amendments, contains the questions and views that the stakeholders have pointed out. There are also 'controversial arguments' or 'initiative arguments'. Is there any other way to formalize it? It's a matter of taste, and you can have a debate about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U184	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U185	Thank you, Mr President. I will then follow your recommendation and ask the rapporteur about the implementation of § 103 of the same Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. If this paragraph clearly states that the commission will draw up an explanatory memorandum for the second reading containing information relating to the procedure of the draft, such as the reasons for taking into account and disregarding the amendments, the views of the initiator or author of the draft, the experts involved in the procedure of the draft and other persons involved in the proceedings, then I ask you, as the chairman of the committee, why has the Commission not complied with this point of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U186	I cannot answer that question because I think that the Commission has complied with this section of the law. As far as the views are concerned, they are presented here and the explanatory memorandum from the initiators is attached. As far as the proposals are concerned, as far as I am aware, these are the so-called official proposals, the right to be presented of which is also enshrined in the Home and Working Procedures Act, i.e. it is the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and so on. No amendments to this draft, as I mentioned in my report, were received within the deadline. All the amendments that were finally tabled are proposals from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, on which all members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have been able to express their thoughts and also to make 'proposals', but they do not in themselves qualify as an amendment within the meaning of the Law on Home and Working Procedures; they are 'proposals of the proposal'. And since there are no amendments to this draft which have not been taken into account, it is difficult in the explanatory memorandum to say that it is not impossible, somehow, to justify that they are not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U187	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U188	Thank you. The same § 103 clearly speaks of the views of experts and other persons who have taken part in the proceedings. Does it then have to be concluded that no expert or other person took part in the procedure for the draft if you claim that there is no need to reflect their views here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U189	No, I'm not saying that. As the explanatory memorandum states, the operators who have been approached by us and who have participated in the round table have been marked off. The issues raised elsewhere are also set out in the explanatory memorandum to the draft. If it is considered that any position in the explanatory memorandum in the future should be specifically stated by who has submitted it, then of course it can be considered, but that would then require that we have such practice and that, accordingly, the explanatory notes can be drawn up in the future. However, the topics themselves are currently marked in the explanatory memorandum and the comments of the initiator are also given.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U190	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U191	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, we are dealing with a situation where we all understand in the same way that the state needs money in the budget in order to fulfil its functions and to be good, successful in coordinating redistribution and to help those who need support from the state. Indeed, entrepreneurs and the private sector are more capable of managing their lives and are also coming to the aid of the state, because entrepreneurship, especially in the private sector, is a life-promoting employer. No one opposes even Jürgen Ligi's claims in processing this draft, where to my great surprise he introduced a social dimension: if we look at the structure of the personal consumption of businesses and the personal consumption of employees, we can see that the company generally does not have either a private car or a television set at home. You have to agree! During this same debate, I invited Jürgen Ligi to join the Centre Party, because the Centre Party likes social positions that create a well-off middle class. The question is not whether this bill is bad or good. From a cash flow point of view, it could rather be said that this is a draft that is necessary for the state. True, we do not like the way we deal with our tax changes. We have at today's session about three drafts, all of which try somehow on the AC principle of once, there is no procedure to fill the state's purse. I regret that current rulers, who are relatively young people and who do not have very much practical experience, but who have a clear will to serve the people, can also rely on young officials who, in carrying out their duties, try to come up with places where they can be squeezed. Sadly, in recent years, the issue of cars has always been such a strange issue, as we are seeing now in the process of this draft. Everything began when, a few good years ago, the same Social Democrats, I think Ivari Padar was the Minister of Finance at the time, the special tax on cars was increased. The result was that no one paid the tax anymore or, let's say, the receipts actually decreased. Everyone was busy filling in the driving diary. Now we have gone to the point that we are trying to stop VAT being deducted. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U192	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U193	You could say this isn't some crazy thing, but I've already found a whole bunch of things in this debate today that probably clever people are going to take advantage of in life. This does not make the work of the tax administration any easier, and it is precisely against this simple, transparent and reasonable tax system, which the Reform Party advocates. So what do I do now? I want to buy a Porsche Cayenne and register it as a cab. For example, my good colleague Erki Arrow used to drive a car like this, a horrible expensive car, envied him all the time. One day Erki Nool can now travel to the Riigikogu's courtyard with a taxiphone car, having taken his child to the elite school in the centre of Tallinn as a customer. I'm not saying he's gonna do it, but let's try to get back to the beginning of my story again. Time has come to the point that, in the context of the 2015 elections, the four political parties sitting in the Riigikogu are relatively likely to have created a situation in which, mathematically speaking, no one else can come here for the simple reason that we have shared this political power, some will receive 30, some 20 seats, but basically a large quarter of us will all be able to bark this power pie all the time. Don't you think we'd look better, smarter and better if we actually started, even in the first approximation, a neutral debate on expert soil on the whole tax system's restor? The point is that with draft laws such as the draft on VAT on cars, and some of the draft laws that still run into it today, we are showing that we are not really going to understand what we want and what is happening in the country for a long time now. And then if there's an emergency, we're gonna look like blind people by touch so we can get where we can. Perhaps a gram even we can, but in this form, it makes no sense to deal with the governance of the state for the simple reason that it gives its citizens, businesses and people as a whole a picture of an unstable country, unstable tax system and, worst of all, the extinction of a whole range of economic sectors as a result. This is because the implementation of the bill is relatively likely to have a very good impact on the sale of new cars, and more cars used in Europe, for example, will be brought into their own name, etc. This list could be continued. I would like to emphasise once again: in any case, I have this mind and the whole central party worldview, which is very clearly within me, is built on the fact that we have a self-satisfied, well-managed and broad-based middle class. But by such methods, we do not create confidence in either small business or medium entrepreneurship. The director of the big factory buys Porsche Cayenne anyway and he can pay all that VAT, he doesn't have a problem. The problems arise elsewhere and are saddened. Therefore, I repeat: ladies and gentlemen, believe me, the time is ripe to look at the picture as a whole. Let's put an end to the stupidity of patching up the state budget in such an emergency session! Or we can do it now, if it needs to be done temporarily. But we're spitting on Europe too, we're saying, oh, that's their permission, right, he'll never come, we don't have a problem, we're still doing our thing. You can't do that! Therefore, the Estonian Centre Party proposes that the reading of this draft be interrupted today, and I will also hand it over in writing to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U194	Thank you. Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U195	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, According to Bill No 644 amending the VAT Act, which is in the second reading in this Chamber today, companies cannot recover 100% of input VAT, but only 50% if they acquire a car in their business. Such a draft had also been submitted in autumn 2013, but then it was put under pressure. The reason was that too little has been dealt with stakeholders and the planned regulation is crude. Now, less than a year later, the same-sensory draft is here again and burdening businesses with unjustified bureaucracy and additional taxation are back on the agenda. Has there been enough of this cooperation with stakeholders now? Actually, it's not. We will deal with the interest groups that have indeed been spoken to and who have been asked to submit proposals. When we look at what stakeholders have put forward, for example, the Chamber of Commerce had to propose more effective implementation of the current VAT legislation and not go to this draft. It wasn't counted. The Chamber of Commerce did not consider it appropriate to limit the deduction of input VAT to 50% for the purchase of goods and services for passenger cars used in business. The Ministry of Finance didn't take that into account. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry stated that the proposed wording of Paragraph 30 (4) (4) of the VAT Act, that the 50% restriction does not apply to passenger cars used exclusively for business purposes and that the latter must be proved by the taxable person, does not comply with the rule of law. This was not taken into account by saying that the burden of proof lies with the undertaking and, where appropriate, the undertaking should refer the matter to the court, which then decides whether the use of a passenger car for business purposes alone has been demonstrated or not. We are making a law where the state has already taken into account, when drafting a draft law, that the company should start to go to court on certain points. It shows that the bill is crude. According to the Estonian Employers' Confederation, it should not be accepted that the draft is based on the assumption that all employees use the employer's car for personal purposes. This opinion was not taken into account again. The Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Estonian Board of Accountants, the Auditor Assembly, the Estonian Association of Car Sales and Service Enterprises, the Estonian Association of Security Companies and Eesti Energia have provided unsupported views. No proposals have been taken into account. I need more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U196	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U197	Now it's as if all the interest groups were involved, which couldn't be done last autumn, and everything would be nice. Stakeholders have been able to go to the table and give their opinion, but none of them have been taken into account and there is not enough reason why they were not taken into account. This is not the practice that should be practiced in the Riigikogu. It is also questionable whether the European Commission will authorise such a tax amendment. The European Commission has not yet given the necessary permission to enforce this draft. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union considers the draft amendment to the VAT Act 644 raw and unthinkable. Therefore, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance proposes to suspend the second reading and to work on the draft or to exclude it from the procedure at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U198	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U199	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Since we were unable to answer most of the questions and only two questions can be asked, there were still a lot of things hanging in the air in the case of Bill No 644 amending the VAT Act. If you read it in the line of the bill, you'll get the impression that in business, the time will come again when you have to plan. Why, then, do not make a law that makes it very clear that 50% and that's it. But when I look at § 30 (4) (3) of the Act, I read from it that if a passenger car is used primarily for the carriage of taxis and so on. I'm gonna get a taxi pass, drive a taxi once a month and get 100% VAT back. And in two years, I can do anything with this car. Point 4 of the same paragraph states that, if a passenger car is used primarily, I emphasise the word'mainly' for a study journey on condition that... I'm gonna give my daughter a study drive, and it's okay. That's all it takes, the girl doesn't go to the exam until two years, and there's no provision in the law that I would have broken. Or let's look at paragraph 5: The passenger car is used exclusively for business purposes. Where's the border? If you have a one-man company, it's a little easier: you make the company your home, you park on your front yard and it's okay. But if you still have a more serious company and your workers are driving cars, it's much cheaper if these cars park in the workmen's homes instead of having to drive every time to where the register says the company's office is. Does the entry into force of this law mean that cars should be parked in the company's yard? But if the company does not have a yard or only a postal address, how is the system controlled or how should it be demonstrated that the car is used exclusively for business purposes when the car is parked in the worker's yard? These and a number of other questions are unwritten in the explanatory memorandum and this leaves the possibility of interpreting the law in one way or the other. As an entrepreneur, I look at it with one look, the tax administration looks at it differently, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs has perhaps thought of it in the third way. I think that the laws adopted by the Riigikogu should be very clear and there should also be exhaustive explanations in the explanatory memorandum, how and when one or the other law will apply and when and how VAT on cars will actually have to be paid. It is also unclear why all cars are subject to equal taxation of 50%. Doesn't it matter if they buy a $20,000 car or $80,000? I don't think the state should have to refund VAT on hiccups. It would have been very simple if it had been made clear that until, in the case of cars costing EUR 20000, VAT would be refunded 100% and that the higher amount of VAT would be paid 100%. There would be no falsehood, no paperwork, no play. I have the impression that in the last few or three months, the current temporary government has only begun to deal with the issue of imposing restrictions on entrepreneurship and eliminating entrepreneurship in any way. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U200	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U201	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U202	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Six amendments to the draft have been received. Let's go through them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Proposal No 2 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Proposal No 3 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Proposal No 4 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Proposal No 5 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Proposal No 6 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Amendments to this draft have been examined. The Board of the Riigikogu has received a proposal from two political groups, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act. We have to vote through this. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act 644. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The debate on this item is exhausted and the second reading of the draft law is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U203	The third item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a speech from Mr Remo Holsmer, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U204	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U205	Riigikogu, please keep it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U206	You have before you, at second reading, the Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act. As a reminder, two basic things change with this bill. Firstly, the deadline for the refund of VAT is extended from 30 days to 60 days, and I am talking about the maximum time limit. This concerns in particular cross-border transactions for which the Tax and Customs Board needs to collect additional information. Secondly, on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, an amendment is made to the law according to which the tax administration's website will reflect the taxes paid to the State by companies. The draft was initiated by the Government on 2 June. a. The first reading took place in the Chamber of the Riigikogu on 11 June. One proposal was tabled within the deadline for the amendments and was made by Peeter Laurson, a honourable member of the Riigikogu. The substance of the amendment was not to extend the deadline for refunding VAT from 30 to 60 days. The Committee on Finance did not support this proposal. According to the current practice of the Tax Manager, the Tax and Customs Board, the refund requirement will be fulfilled within the first five working days of the advance payment account, i.e. the extension does not concern the day-to-day requirements that have still been fulfilled within five working days. It is recalled that 95% of the refund claims will be completed by the tax office within four working days. In view of the fact that until now the 30-day repayment period has not become the rule, there is no reason to assume that this would happen on the 60-day deadline. That was the reason why the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support Peter Laurson's proposal. Between the readings, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association addressed the Committee on Monetary Affairs and drew attention to two questions. Firstly, the taxpayer association referred to the ambiguity in the disclosure of the amount of taxes paid by self-employed persons, noting that the draft does not make it clear whether the publication will be made only in relation to taxes paid by business or all taxes. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, the initiator of the draft, explained at the meeting of the Monetary Commission on 26 June that data on the salary income of a natural person or other taxes on non-business related income will not be published on the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. The second proposal by the taxpayers' association concerned an extension of the repayment period and consisted in maintaining the current regime. So it was essentially the same proposal made by Peeter Laurson, a member of the Riigikogu. As I said earlier, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support this proposal. At its meeting on 26 June, the Committee on Finance decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be terminated. This proposal was supported by 6 and 3 delegates, with 2 abstentions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U207	Let's get to the questions. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Why do we still need to add these 30 days to make it possible to refund VAT money in total within 60 days? In the Committee on Finance, I asked and tried to find out exactly what the tax office would do within this additional 30 days or what documents the tax authorities would need to obtain from the company. How can an undertaking avoid the VAT refund being withheld? There is no explanation in the draft. What are the operations that the tax authorities do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U209	Thank you. This draft is written out of the desire to combat cross-border tax fraud, and that is mainly why it is proposed to extend the deadline for the refund of VAT from 30 to 60 days. The tax office has repeatedly spoken in the public and also in the Committee on Monetary Affairs about cases where tax fraud transcends national borders. In certain situations, the tax office wants additional time to get answers from authorities in other countries, from tax administrations about specific transactions, and the current 30 days are in some cases too short. Once again, this practice, where 95 to 96% of the cases are refunded within three to four working days, is preserved. The extension of the maximum period to 60 days does not concern the tax administration's current highly effective and operational work on the refund of VAT, which concerns cross-border tax fraud and its investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U210	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! However, your reply did not reveal what the tax authorities could not do within 30 days and what could be done better within 60 days. If we could find out more about what these operations are, the entrepreneur could avoid situations where his money is stuck. After all, this draft law does not describe how an undertaking can become part of this 5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U212	Thank you. This amendment does not extend or restrict the operations carried out by the tax administration in any way. The period for refund of VAT is extended from 30 to 60 days only in certain cases. In particular, they relate to the fact that some of the countries to which the Estonian tax administration has approached do not simply receive a reply within this 30-day period. This is also the reason why it is asked to extend the period of proceedings to 60 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U213	Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U214	Good manager! Good waitress! Good law, certainly, must do everything to ensure that entrepreneurship is fair. You have repeatedly stressed in your speech and answers that 95% of entrepreneurs will be reimbursed VAT within 4 to 5 days. Can you tell me in which law I find a place that confirms that even after this law has been passed, the situation will remain that way, not that all entrepreneurs will get their money back on the 60th day?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U215	Thank you! This rate of return of 95% or 95.5% is still not in the law. You won't find it anywhere, it's a good job for the IRS. We can only hope that this percentage will increase further in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U216	No further questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law, and we will review it. The amendment has been tabled by Mr Laurson, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U217	Thank you. On behalf of the IRL Group, please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U218	We're preparing for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1 tabled by Mr Laurson. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 26 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have exhausted the debate on this item. The second reading of bill 680 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U219	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's Chair, Rannar Vassilyev, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U220	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, which bears the number 682, has been discussed at several meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. [[Summing in the hall, the manager ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U221	Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U222	The first discussions took place on 3 and 9 June. The deadline for amendments was 17 June. After the deadline for amendments, the Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 12, 16, 17 and 19 June and held an extraordinary meeting on 26 June. The contents of the bill have already been introduced from this remote control, so I'm not wasting any time in the hall. If there are any other questions, I'll try to answer. The draft procedure took place after the first reading as follows: The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on the dates I have already mentioned. Several interest groups have addressed the Commission both after and before the first reading. I will bring out the main topics that interest groups have set up in their letters as well as in other forms. First, tobacco excise. The conversions mainly concerned the relationship between the piece-based excise component of the excise duty on cigarettes and the price-dependent excise component of the excise duty on cigarettes. In the case of excise duties on alcohol, the main issue of appeals was the low level of excise duty on low alcoholic beverages, in particular beer, and consequently the low impact on the final price. In the case of natural gas excise duty, the negative effects of the increase in excise duty on natural gas-related companies and sectors were identified. Here the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been approached by both network companies and large customers of natural gas. In the case of specially labelled fuel, the issue was the narrowing of the use in rail transport and also heating, and the impact of the abolition of the total exemption from excise duty on sectors and companies currently in a favourable situation when fishing with a fishing vessel in Estonia. All letters and opinions relating to the draft are found on the Riigikogu website at the draft. The Committee on Finance addressed the issues raised in the referrals and the proposals made in a total of four meetings. The Commission made four amendments to the draft. Amendment 1, which has received consensual support from the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is a technical norm and also amends the title of the draft. Amendment 2 provides for the continuation of excise duty exemption for special-purpose diesel in Estonian waters for fishing with a fishing vessel. In this regard, the Commission has decided to consider in part the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica. It was voted in favour by 7 members of the Commission, with no votes against and 4 abstentions. Amendment 4 raises the rate of excise duty on beer by 5% per year compared to the draft, which represents a 20% increase in excise duty in 2015 and 15% in 2016-2018. Six members of the Commission voted in favour of this proposal and five against. Amendment 5 reduces the increase in excise duty on cigarettes proposed in the draft, taking into account the share of the price-based excise component in the structure of excise duty on cigarettes, and accordingly increases the excise component on a piece-by-piece basis, resulting in higher prices for cheaper cigarettes than expensive ones. This price increase resulting from the increase in excise duty is 7% for the cheapest cigarettes and more than 2% for the least expensive cigarettes. The remaining amendments were not supported by the Commission. The Commission did not support the amendments which included the withdrawal of the increase in excise duty on heating fuels proposed in the draft or the total or partial withdrawal of the restriction on the use of specially labelled fuel. Amendments 6 and 7 relating to the increase in cigarette excise duty relate to amendments 43 and 45 and, as a whole alone, the amendments would provide for a change in the expected increase in systemic excise duty on cigarettes. Therefore, they could theoretically be supported in practice, but the result would be extremely interesting in legal terms. The idea of the proposer was to increase excise duties on cigarettes by 5% as early as 2015. The content of Amendments 8 to 38 is to increase excise duty on smoking tobacco and chewing tobacco by one cent, irrespective of each other. None of these proposals was supported, 3 were in favour and 6 opposed, as was the case with the above amendments, except for the 43rd and 44th proposals, with 5 votes in favour and 6 votes against. The explanations attached to the proposals are set out in the list of amendments. The Committee on Finance's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft, with 6 votes in favour and 5 against. In consensus, the Commission asked the Bureau to authorise the draft documents to be made available a day later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U223	Thank you. You have a lot of questions. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U224	Thank you. This bill raises the price of 38% for households that heat their homes with liquid fuel, as excise duty rises by 350%. The draft preparers have written an explanatory statement stating that MKM, in cooperation with KredEx and the Ministry of Finance, is planning to agree on the details of the support measure in the near future. The bill was prepared more than a month ago, so the blast should be over. Has this promise come true? Is it agreed under what conditions and how those households that fall under the price increase will receive support?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U225	Thank you. It would be more appropriate to ask this question to the Government of the Republic and to the respective ministries. If I remember correctly, in the short term, this is a third quarter, set a deadline in the Republic Government's agenda. The third quarter will start tomorrow, and hopefully during this period the corresponding support mechanisms will also be developed. As far as this issue is concerned, the amendment will enter into force from 1 May, which means that in reality, domestic consumers will not feel this increase in price during the next but the next heating period. The idea has been, above all, that those who want to be able to correct their source of heating according to the support mechanisms.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U226	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U227	Good manager! Good waitress! I will continue on the same subject. Maybe you can tell me what kind of fuel is the only right one to heat in the future. We're raising excise duties on gas, we're setting excise duty on special-marked fuel oil, the price of electricity has gone up anyway. And since we know that most electricity is produced from oil shale, the talk of earth heating also makes a foolish impression. In fact, electricity is still being heated in winter, and there is not enough sun in our winter to get the room heated by solar energy. So you have to hire someone to heat a wooded furnace or take a member of the family away from work. How do you see what this measure is and what type of fuel are we going to?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U228	Thank you. I would also leave specific support mechanisms, which depend on which alternatives to the choice of a heating source are to be developed for the executive, and then the legislative body will be able to evaluate them if it wishes. There is certainly no single fuel or source of heating that is universally preferred. This depends very much on where people are located, whether they can switch to district heating or not. As practice shows, cutting wood is significantly more affordable for district heating and is also more environmentally friendly than natural gas, for example. But whether this could be an alternative depends very much on whether a person lives in a region where it is possible to connect his equipment to the district heating network at reasonable costs. In this sense, a particular person must be looked at. The number of people affected by this change is extremely small. Most people in Estonia have found an alternative, the rest of them have a road ahead of them, whether it is everyone now, but some are supposed to. Depends on where a person lives. I think that, as a result of the support mechanisms, this can be addressed more specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U229	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U230	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. Once upon a time there was a great slogan 'Home expenses down! ', as a result of which home expenses began to go upstairs. It seems to me that increasing home expenses, without any slogan, is now one of the main objectives of the social democrats. Gas duty will be increased by 20% per year and then by another 20% in the next two years. And considering that next year it will be 20% more than the previous increase, it will be nearly 100% in three years. Why do they want to increase the excise duty on one fuel so sharply? You could raise 5% or 10%, but no, 20% in three years. Soon, there will be no point in saying that Gazprom will sell expensive gas. Whoever makes gas expensive is the temporary government of Estonia. However, would it not be possible to increase gas excise duties a little less per year in order to save home costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U231	I don't think I'm gonna make it to 100%. Let us see how much excise duty on natural gas represents the final price so that this 20% increase can be understood in a more human way. Depending on whether natural gas is used as a district heating customer or used directly in heating, this price increase ranges from 0,7 to 1.4% per year. In this context, even if it were to be linked to a time series and so-called to grow it in the next few years, with a rise of 0.7 to 1.4%, it will certainly become much more understandable than the stories of 20%. Really, this effect remains around 1%, with less than 1% in the district heating network. The Social Democrats have in no way identified themselves as raising home expenses in the new coalition. Rather, an increase in child benefits has been important for us. If on one side there is an increase in universal child support to EUR 45, with an increase in additional need-based family support, and on the other side there is an increase in heating costs of less than 1% or 1% of natural gas consumers, then I think that the weight of the matter certainly tends to lean towards children's benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U232	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U233	Good manager! Good waitress! You are now trying to claim that 45 euros of child benefit will cover the costs of fuel. However, if you start to calculate, this is certainly not the case with liquid fuel. The fact that only a very small part of the population is affected by the increase in excise duty is also wrong, because very many of the major central boilers are still using gas heating and some of the specially labelled liquid fuel. I understand we're taking money out of one pocket to keep the other promise. In reality, however, the cost to our families of fulfilling this promise will increase, not decrease, and this beautiful promise of child support will eventually go towards heating costs. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U234	Thank you. To cover, yes, but certainly not in full, because the amount of child benefits is significantly higher than the money received by increasing excise duty on special-marked fuel or increasing excise duties on natural gas, which is ten to twenty times the difference there. As far as I'm concerned, the questioner is confusing two things right now. The number of people who use natural gas as fuel is considerable in Estonia, but also in the case of natural gas, the price increase in real terms is around 1%. Those who use specially labelled fuel have a higher slope, but their number in Estonia is extremely small.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U235	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U236	Thank you. I don't understand the initiators very well. Do you not understand what kind of climate area we live in and what kind of heating and other household costs people have to pay, that you think this is where we need to find additional resources in the state budget? You're saying that only about a thousand families use specially labelled liquid fuels in their homes. I'm saying this number is many times higher. Put yourself in the position of these people! Their heating bill will increase by 38% next year and both members of the family may be retired. How do you explain that to them? Why didn't you propose a solution so that in two years, for example, they could rebuild the system with public money, and if they hadn't rebuilt it in that time, they would raise the tax? But raise the tax unilaterally and say that stupid people, why are you using this fuel? How do you explain it to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U237	Thank you. I have no record of the number of these people being several times as many as a thousand. But I agree that a thousand is a considerable number, though not in proportion, if you look at all the households that are heated. That is why the support mechanism has been designed, and that is why the deadline for the entry into force of this provision, which was originally intended to be 1 January, has been postponed. This has been done precisely to allow people a year to switch to an alternative source of heating, and the country also supports this transition. That is why the date of entry into force of this provision differs from that of the other provisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U238	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U239	Thank you. Dear waitress, I can't find anything like how much liquid fuel specially labelled by private customers brings money to the Treasury? Can you tell me the amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U240	I'm afraid I'm afraid to say that. This amount is certainly not comparable to the amounts referred to in other areas, such as the amount needed to raise children's benefits. They are in no way comparable. I'm not saying that number in my head right now, but it should be in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U241	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U242	Thank you. Good waitress! Both this draft law and its explanatory memorandum and your presentation give the unambiguous impression that this is a budgetary debate. However, my better understanding is that excise policy has broader objectives. Can you tell us, in connection with these increases in excise duty, their fickle change, what kind of excise policy stance did you take when you reached the proposal we have on the table today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U243	Thank you. It is now necessary to specify what the proposal is or what you are referring to. When you evaluate the whole draft, or rather comment on it, it is difficult for me to take this view as if the Committee on Monetary Affairs had somehow brought it on the table. It was brought here by the government and the Ministry of Finance. The excise duty bill certainly bears the so-called budgetary dimension and is intended to generate a certain amount of revenue to cover various additional costs or revenue reductions, as agreed by the current government coalition. However, since the draft excise duty concerns quite a number of areas, it should be clarified which specific question was addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U244	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The measures to cover the costs of losing special fuel were not mentioned in this draft. When asked about this, it became clear that the representative of the Ministry of Finance does not yet know what these measures will be. How will people with specially labelled fuel-using ovens be able and able to start rebuilding their fireplaces next year if no measures have been adopted and no plan is even in place when these measures will be adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U246	Thank you. As the questioner rightly said, this 'exchange' should take place mainly next year, and consequently the action plan of the Government of the Republic also provides for the development of these measures. It is expected that this work will be completed in the near future. In order for domestic consumers to be able to switch to new sources of heating, the date of entry into force of this provision is later. However, the description of the support mechanisms should be completed in the near future and it will be possible to resolve these issues more clearly and more specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U247	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U248	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You are the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and are therefore certainly familiar with the excise policy of both the government and the government coalition, including alcohol excise policy. Can you tell me if the government coalition has a solid, forward-looking policy in this respect that can be understood by both producers and consumers? And if there is one, can you explain the policy of alcohol excise from the government coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U249	Thank you. As a result of the fact that we have an amendment here today, which was approved by the Commission, but not approved by both parties to the coalition, it must be said that we do not have a consensual understanding at least in this area at the moment. It would therefore probably be incorrect at the moment to say that the government coalition has such a common understanding of alcohol policy, but I hope that this will occur in Estonia in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U250	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The excise duty on natural gas in Estonia is already higher than in Latvia and Lithuania. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance did not provide any estimates and effects that would lead to increased excise duties on natural gas for businesses. In business, each cent mark-up on a product reduces the competitiveness of companies. Why has the Ministry of Finance not carried out an impact assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U252	Thank you. I don't know how to speak for the Treasury Department. However, as regards the comparison between our excise duties on natural gas and those on natural gas in other countries, the picture is different. In Estonia, the excise duty on natural gas is approximately twice as low as in the EU countries on average and about four times lower than in Finland. But it is true that, for example, compared to Latvia and Lithuania, it is high. This picture is quite different in the context of the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U253	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U254	Thank you. Good colleague! You said that the government coalition did not have a common excise policy on alcohol and the parties had disagreements. However, we are now discussing a draft which provides, among other things, for an alcohol excise policy for the next four years. Do you consider it appropriate to take such an approach that, in a situation where there is no consensus and clarity about alcohol excise policy in the government coalition, we are still adopting a bill based either on the voices of the opposition or on the very random votes? I stress that this policy is intended for the next four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U255	Thank you. In this context, I think there is a consensus in the coalition and in general in the Riigikogu. Is there any real consensus in society now, but I believe that the position of the majority of society is the same as that of this House, so that excise duty on alcohol should not remain the same, but should rise. Of course, there is always a question of to what extent exactly. The lowest rate could perhaps be explained by the proportion of the price increase, i.e. alcohol cannot become cheaper than other goods in the store. Another option is to set aside income growth, i.e. the end price of alcohol should not rise less than the rise in incomes in society. The third option is that if society believes that alcohol should be less accessible than before. In such cases, the increase in excise duty should ensure that the increase in the price of alcohol exceeds the increase in income for the final consumer. Such choices are broadly the case. In my opinion, there is, in any case, a consensus in the coalition that excise duty on alcohol must rise. What exactly should this increase be for one or another alcohol group, or, in the case of an alcohol group, for the purposes of the Act on Excise Duties, is the current rate of excise duty on which the increase is calculated reasonable and fair, in this respect we really have different opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U256	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U257	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I come back to the price increase on specially labelled liquid fuel. In fact, the draft states that 7.8 million is the amount planned for excise duty. When we are talking about a thousand households, this represents an average of EUR 7800 per household. Hence the first question that this is not real, so these numbers do not fully answer. Am I right to understand that the whole thing is not being calculated in the Commission at all? At the same time, you always promote that we put in new boilers. However, how much does the country expect to receive with this increase in excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U258	Thank you. In particular, this calculation has not been made in this form in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So I wouldn't start to figure out exactly how much it does for every consumer per year and whether it's realistic or not. Since the Commission did not pay attention to this, I should start digging through the explanatory memorandum to review this amount and then to calculate it. I think that what these measures are and how much money will eventually come for every consumer can be given the most accurate attention during the state budget procedure, because above all this change concerns the state budget for next year. By then, there should also be a plan for what exactly these support mechanisms will look like. I think that this debate will be very relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U259	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U260	In your report, you said that specially labelled fuel must therefore be abolished in order to find a source of cover for the growth of child support. Is it not strange that higher child benefits will be paid at the expense of homeowners?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U261	Thank you. I did not actually say that in my report, rather in one answer to the question, and certainly not in this form. But, in principle, in society or in the context of the budget, the question of alternatives is whether and how to reallocate money. I understand that, in general, there is no political force against the need for child support to increase. In the same context of the sources of cover, there is in principle opposition for each source of cover. In practice, there is a need to find money to increase, for example, children's benefits or the rate of income tax-free minimum, for which, as far as I know, there is also a consensus here in the Riigikogu Chamber. And as far as I can remember from previous debates, there is also a consensus on, for example, the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions. So it's a question of choices, and we have to find money somewhere. The question was whether something was done at the expense of homeowners or those who heat natural gas. The sources of heating indicate that this excise duty is low and has not risen for years. If you ask if raising it is one of the seven deadly sins that certainly cannot be done, I am skeptical about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U262	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U263	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. My question concerns interest groups. You mentioned that you've met several of them. On 25 June, Mr Andres Ando, an officer of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, sent proposals for amendments to the draft law to the members of the committee at 19.23 a.m., which could be discussed the following day as amendments by the Commission. Four hours and fifteen minutes later, you personally sent a new amendment a few minutes before midnight. Who was the interest group that you met in this four-hour period and made sure that a favourable amendment should be made to the wine producers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U264	Thank you. In that four hour period, I didn't meet any interest groups. And if you refer to the producers of wine, I can say that I have not met them during the procedure on this draft, with the exception of the joint sitting on the secret market organised by the taxpayers' association and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which in fact was not directly related to this draft, but covered a broader issue. With regard to the draft we are currently discussing, the Committee on Monetary Affairs raised this issue at the last sitting, and not by me or my group, which is now being drafted and brought here as an amendment. At that time, I remember asking, as chairman of the committee, for the proposal to be able to be voted in any way, to follow the Commission's practice of proposing amendments in writing. Since, by the evening of the previous day, the 25th day, this amendment had not been received in writing, and to deny it, this amendment seemed to me, as the outcome of the Commission's vote has shown, to be sympathetic, I had an alternative as to whether to instruct my committee members after the end of the working day to formalise this proposal or to do so myself. This is not a very complex amendment. A simple percentage calculation, such a basic school level, if I remember correctly, has raised the alcohol duty rate over four years. Four numbers have been amended in the draft law and it has been correctly drafted. I think, at least I hope, that this is a viable activity for every member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U265	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U266	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will return to the question put by my colleague, to which you replied that you could not get the draft explanatory memorandum to discuss. There's nothing in this explanatory note for today's reading. There's only one page. But the first-reading explanatory memorandum contains two figures. This measure, namely the introduction of excise duties on liquid fuel for private households, is expected to receive EUR 7.8 million in the state budget. That's what they're asking about. It also says that it is about the 1000 households that you have confirmed, that is certainly the right number. Well, there's nothing that's complicated: if we divide $7,8 million by 1,000, we get €7,800 per household. Do you dare to confirm here that, on average, every household will cost more than EUR 7800 next year, or do you believe that these figures in the explanatory memorandum may not be correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U267	Thank you. Without the author of this explanatory memorandum, I am not going to confirm or reject these figures here. If you wish, you can contact the author, the Ministry of Finance, and get an answer there. These calculations, not as done, and not as seen by the source sources on which these figures have been derived from the explanatory memorandum, do not dare to confirm or disprove them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U268	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U269	Thank you, good manager. Good Beacher! As I understand it, you are the chairman of the Monetary Commission. But you're so inexplicable as the chairman of the Monetary Commission, it's hard to believe this job. You're much more visible as a Social Democrat. How, though, is it acceptable for you that social democrats now go to those people who are relatively likely to have their own house and who are relatively likely to have some children in order to increase child benefits? You're like giving support to kids and taking that money back with your other hand pretty brutally? In addition, you have submitted false information to the Riigikogu in the explanatory memorandum. At least I know three households that still fuel oil. One of them belongs to me, and I think my circle of acquaintances isn't so big that a whole micro percent of my acquaintances are already hit. Tell me the truth, aren't you ashamed to stand here today with such a bill and be a social democrat tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U270	No, it's not. I guess I'm the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs as a Social Democrat and vice versa. However, I repeat once again that neither I nor the Committee on Monetary Affairs have submitted this explanatory statement, so if there are irregularities there, I would stress that, in case there is, I personally should not be ashamed of it sometimes. But as regards whether to extend your example of your personal circle of acquaintances to general statistics, it is always associated with a very high risk. In general, I think that the statistics collected by the various institutions are more reliable than the figures derived from an individual acquaintance. And not only in this case, but also in the wider sense. It is often the opinion that if there are many people who think the same way or even people who use one source of heating, the proportion of people in the community is high. Personally, I have always trusted statistics and assumed that it was correctly collected and that there are no problems with a particular methodology.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U271	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U272	Thank you. Very correct statement that statistics must be trusted. At the same time, if Mr Kallo's reference to the figures was correct, that 7.8 million must be divided into 1000 and then one household in an oil-fired house will have to pay EUR 7800 more per year, you said you would not dare to confirm or disprove it. That's the way the statistics are. I think things are a little foggy around here. But I have specific questions about people's livelihoods. First of all, how many households in Estonia heat up their lives with gas and how much will their heating bill increase in three years' time if we rake a cumulative percentage per year, as has been pointed out that the total bill is going to grow? How many households in Estonia heat with gas? And secondly, we are talking now that the oil-fired apartment building may be a boiler, and maybe that's the difference in numbers. How many households in Estonia are using the liquid fuel we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U273	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U274	Thank you. These figures are shown in the explanatory memorandum, and that is what I refer to. I don't have any further information on that. This issue has not been raised at the meetings of the Committee on Finance, so as a Commission rapporteur, I also have little reason to be more informed about it. Of course, if I were, I'd be happy to say these figures, but I assure you I don't have any more information than I have in the explanatory memorandum. As far as the relevant increase is concerned, it depends on whether it is district heating. In this case, it is 0.7% per year and the highest increase can be 1.4%. On this basis, it is possible to make a time series and calculate the percentage accordingly. It's not a very complex mathematical equation, but I'd still need a calculator and some time to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U275	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U276	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, Once again, it must be admitted that it is not easy for you to defend the bill, in which you probably spit over your shoulder, too. My question is that both Jürgen Ligi and you have argued that you are here in the Riigikogu with these drafts in order to find sources of cover for the promises you have made. However, a few weeks ago, your partner party leader in Parliament stated that all the promises that you quickly agreed with each other in March were covered and not only existing, but even exceeded by nearly EUR 40 million. My question is this: do you have an overview of this huge surplus, and why do you not take the cover from it for your promises to the target groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U277	I am not the person whose words have been referred to, but I believe that this person, by covering, meant precisely the drafts that are currently under trial in the Riigikogu. Without their passage, there are certainly no such sources of cover. I believe that the chairman of our partner party was based on this. As far as possible surpluses are concerned, this is about improving the budgetary position. As we know, the Riigikogu cannot be presented with a state budget that is not structurally balanced, but tends in a negative direction. The non-balance is allowed, but the slope can only be in the positive direction. For this reason, there really is a need to improve the budgetary position. The IRL has also stressed in this Chamber that the budgetary position needs to be improved in both nominal and structural contexts and, accordingly, the number of sources of coverage is, indeed, slightly higher than the amount of additional expenditure or revenue reductions. This means that, as compared to previous decisions, the budgetary position is expected to improve when these drafts enter into force as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U278	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U279	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As a rule, excise duty is increased for two reasons. One reason is the desire to change the behaviour of consumers; the other is to implement the budget. If we increase the excise duty on both gas and domestic oil fuel, then there are two other approaches involved. What could be the purpose of the government? Is it only to implement the state budget, or is it also to make consumer management more efficient? Oil heating is certainly not effective, but did you discuss alternatives in the Commission? Could you switch to pellets, for example, and is there some kind of incentives?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U280	I'm trying to answer, starting with the beginning of the questions. The first issue concerned whether the alcohol pops are more of a lack of desire or whether it is an objective problem. It seems to me that this is a rather objective problem. If it were just a matter of lack of will, it would probably have been solved in most of the countries of the European Union or in Europe at large. But that doesn't mean there's nothing you can do if you want to. I can say that all members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs share this view, and I expect that we will be trying to find a solution to the problem. It's being dealt with. As far as the differences are concerned, yes, we have different rates of excise duty on alcohol. It's difficult to hit everything with a real one stick, and it probably wouldn't be justified. In a country of the European Union, for example, this is out of the question of wine. Where the other groups of alcohol are subject to alcohol-based taxation at one rate or another, the wine shall be subject to a levy of volume. It does not matter whether wine has 8% or 14% alcohol, taxation depends on the amount. This is not a system or a speciality designed by Estonia, it is agreed in the European Union. At the same time, the picture of alcohol taxation in Europe is very varied and varies widely from country to country. If you look at tax rates and analyse them a little bit, you can see in many countries that there is some way of trying to favour drinks that are also produced locally. The most extreme examples are wine countries which do not apply wine excise duties. So the picture's pretty written. As far as tobacco is concerned, I am going to take a very long answer, but what to do is, in itself, these are interesting issues, but tobacco has a particular form of excise duty. Indeed, nicotine or other substances with negative effects are not taxed, but are based on the volume of the product, i.e. essentially a cigarette pack, on the one hand, and on the price of the package at the store on the other hand, on the end price. For other excise duties, such a policy shall not be implemented. When you bring a parallel with alcohol, it doesn't matter how high the end price is at the store. Excise duty is bottle-based for either alcohol or wine, but two components have been applied to tobacco. What is the proportion of components, it is also quite different from country to country. There are countries that have essentially abolished price-based excise duty. Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands, for example, if I remember correctly, this rate has been extremely low. However, this obligation is actually the result of a European Union directive; it must exist. Why is that, in order to find out a little bit more about history? However, all excise policy in itself is in some respects special and full of differences. And not only in Estonia, perhaps there are even more of them elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U281	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U282	Thank you, good manager. Good Rannar Vasiliev! I still come back to the fundamental question of the draft explanatory memorandum. As we know, Parliament is a supra-governmental institution chosen by the people. And if you consistently tell us here that you don't know anything about the content of this bill, because it's prepared by the government, I will refresh your memory. 7.8 million excise duties should be collected if the law applies from 1 May 2015. In 2016, you plan to receive EUR 13 million from private individuals, or thousands of residents, which is EUR 13000 per year. Forgive me, but don't you think it would be reasonable for you, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to propose that you stop reading this bill? This substantive breach is not the right of a government that is not a supra-parliamentary body to bring it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U283	I have not said that I have no idea what is in the explanatory memorandum, but without its author or the author's representative, it is difficult for me to take responsibility for it in any way. At the same time, I admit that the questions of EUR 7.8 and EUR 13 million are then a planned amount from private consumers, and I also raise some questions. But I do not dare to confirm that these figures are wrong or correct. However, as rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I can confirm that the accuracy of these calculations has not been raised as a question at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U284	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U285	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm coming back for alcohol duty. I have the impression that today no one wants to find solutions to the alcop question. There are still reasons why this cannot be done, and no one wants to offer solutions. But that's it. It is also known that different organisations have expressed their views on the increase in excise duties on different types of alcohol. Can you tell me which company or, more specifically, the most powerfully resists a proportional increase in lean alcohol excise duty? I have the impression that the views of a company close to the party of the Prime Minister and of the Prime Minister are often very similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U286	I haven't done an analysis of that resemblance, so I don't know how to comment on it. But there is nothing special about the fact that, if there is an increase in excise duty or some other tax in some area, this plan is less sympathetic for companies operating in the sector. I do not think there is any reason to react specifically to this in this context. It's a normal process in society. As far as your question is concerned, there are organisations that have approached the Committee on Monetary Affairs with a proposal that the increase in excise duty could be greater. Their visits are public and there are quite a number of different health organisations, as well as an association of parents. They really have approached us. But in the fact that the operators concerned comment on this plan and that it does not seem to them most sympathetic, I do not think there is anything deplorable or strange.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U287	Thank you. I come back to the heating companies with fuel oil, how many of them are there in Estonia. A survey of household energy consumption of Statistics Estonia found a few years ago that 0.8% of Estonia's 560000 households heat boiler with fuel oil, including 1.2% in the country and 0.6% in the city. This makes a simple calculation of nearly 4,500 households or households. These figures do not correspond in any way to the figures provided by the originator. Secondly, the initiator has based itself on the fact that around EUR 8 000 is collected on average from one household with additional excise duties. According to Statistics Estonia's survey, 2 tonnes per year is average fuel oil consumption when it comes to households. I understand that we are charging a ton of EUR 400. According to the originator's calculations, one household fuel oil would consume 20 tonnes a year. These things don't add up. You're patching up...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U288	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U289	... these budget sources and holes are now inside. Rannar, explain what's going on!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U290	Thank you. Since my identity has been mentioned, I will use my right to rejoinder. I am not using it to comment on all the issues that were raised when I touched on my person, but I would just like to clarify one thing, the same number in the draft explanatory memorandum, which reflects the number of households affected by the draft. It is true that this figure in the explanatory memorandum has been obtained in view of both heating and electricity generation, i.e. includes households, businesses, the public sector and those companies that produce electricity for this source of heat. So it can be assumed that this number is correct and that this mathematical equation of 7.8 million divided by 1000 is not correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U291	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U292	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Rannar Vassilyev is a good man, doing what is said or told. But I liked one thing. He summed up this bill relatively briefly and said: money must be found somewhere. In fact, the title of this law could be the law of finding money. This time, by means of excise duties. We need the Money Finding Act because we have social democratic costs and liberal revenues in the Republic of Estonia. When you put these two things together, it's no wonder that finding money is the biggest problem. The problem is that excise duties as instruments are not meant, at least not in their primary sense, to raise the state budget or to patch holes, as they say. They are also very important consumption regulation instruments, whether social considerations or other circumstances are involved. It is therefore regrettable that no waitress at first and second reading has been able to say what is the excise policy of this coalition. Excise policy could be subject to some principles on which to base and which at least will be kept for some time, as excise duties affect the economic behaviour of people and businesses as well as social behaviour of people. If it is shaken on the basis of fiscal needs in each financial year, uncertainty and mistrust will be created, and it will certainly be of little use and will not help the money that has been recovered as a result of this activity. Of course, it must be said that this is not the first government to make such mistakes, but a slightly better parliamentary and governance culture could be expected in the approaching 25th year of independence. A few words about alcohol excise. The main objective of alcohol duty should, in my opinion, be to limit consumption, including in particular the effect on young people's drinking and alcohol culture. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has welcomed the amendment to increase the excise duty rate on lighter alcoholic beverages that attract alcohol consumption. I agree with my party that excise duty on alcohol should be as harmonised as possible and based primarily on alcohol content. It is not worth trying to classify alcohol as good or worse, less harmful and more harmful. The excise duty rates could be set on the basis of a uniform principle that the price of alcohol increases with the rise in the standard of living, i.e. more or less equal to nominal GDP. And it should certainly not be changed in every financial year. Therefore, I would like to support the people in the Chamber who hope that the Estonian excise policy will be based on a more stable basis and based on understandable, transparent and long-term pre-defined principles, that it will not be used solely to cover the income and expenditure gap of the state and that the barrier to access to alcohol will be raised to the level that society needs. I call on you to refrain from amending the excise legislation in the current fiscal pressure situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U293	Thank you. I now request the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U294	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to get through what this bill offers us as a whole. I want to start with the positive side. In my opinion, the most positive thing is that the government's proposal to introduce an excise duty on special-marked fuel used in professional fisheries was voted down and the amendment was approved that the excise duty exemption for special-purpose diesel for fishing with fishing vessels in Estonian waters would remain in force in professional fisheries. Otherwise, Estonia would have been the only European Union country on the Baltic Sea where such excise duties on fuel would have been in place in professional fisheries. At the same time, however, the fuel used by tugs and bunkering companies is increasing by almost 40%, while in neighbouring countries it is free of excise duty. So we are putting our entrepreneurs in a much more difficult position than our closest neighbours. I do not understand what two Estonian economic ministers and the Minister of Agriculture meant when they made this proposal. Further, excise duties on alcohol and tobacco products will be increased. These issues have always been a cause for much debate, and these disputes are based on a wide range of target groups and major economic interests. As the draft sets the increase in excise duties for the next four years, it is important to base itself on long-term objectives and long-term national policies. Unfortunately, we have to admit that there is confusion in the government coalition, at least in terms of alcohol duty. The chairman of the Monetary Commission acknowledged that there was a consensus, but only that excise duties on alcohol should in any case be increased. However, there is no consensus on what the objectives of the measure are and what the rates that are actually being achieved are. However, the bill is on the table and must be adopted. Such a fickle and uncertain policy sends very vague signals to society and does not create certainty for producers or consumers. In my opinion, the bill is completely crude in this regard. Next, biogas is exempt from excise duty, but there is no European Commission State aid authorisation for this purpose. We hope that it will come into force by the time the law comes into force, but it is certainly not good practice at all that should be introduced so that we adopt the law before there is the required authorisation from the European Commission. At the same time, it is unclear why one biofuels is preferred and not supported by the use of all renewable energy. We have not received an answer to this question in the course of the discussions. Increasing the excise duty on natural gas by 20% in 2015, 2016 and 2017 will lead to an increase of around 73% in gas excise duties. There was talk about it in this room, and the waitress couldn't answer how much it would add up. But the change concerns a very broad circle of society. The most painful of all, it hits Estonia's gardening. The new government was hardly able to take office when, during the first month of work, I stress, in the first month of work, the decision was made in favour of such a sharp change in tax policy. There is no solution to the gardening of glasshouses. The government could know that in Latvia, for example, the excise duty on greenhouse gas heating fuel is zero, while in Finland state aid is paid: in southern Finland, 10 euros per square metre, in Northern Finland even more. The Estonian Government does not plan any aid measures, and how Estonian producers can survive in this state is one big question mark. Again, I am asking what our two economic ministers and the Minister for Agriculture are thinking in a situation where our businesses are in a much more difficult position than our closest neighbours, with whom we are in a common competition and in a common market. Further, the abolition of the allowance for light fuel used for heating residential and local government buildings and the sharp increase in fuel prices of up to 40% are painfully affecting both residents and local authorities. According to the explanatory memorandum, the 2013 study by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications showed that in addition to residential buildings it also affects a large part of the public sector, such as at least 182 buildings owned by local government. The city of Kallaste should be in the most difficult situation, with at least 76 oil-fired buildings according to the study. And we know that the government does not have a substantive plan to support the parties involved in the transition to other heating solutions. It is only known that some measures will be envisaged in the future, but there is currently only a limited and theoretical possibility of applying on a project basis for new heating solutions. Once again, I must state very clearly that the draft is crude and its consequences have not been thoroughly thought out. To sum it up. The draft is really raw and still needs to be processed, as such a law would damage the competitiveness of Estonian entrepreneurs and the standard of living of Estonian residents in several areas compared to our closest neighbours. Several parts of the draft should be redrafted. There is a feeling that the government is lacking in competence and the bill is raging through a simple desire to collect money. Excise policy requires a slightly greater intellectual effort and contribution; the mentality of the cash-based approach of the Ministry of Finance is not enough. As a result, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft 682 so that the Riigikogu has the opportunity to draft the draft submitted by the government in such a way that it is more face-to-face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U295	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At second reading, this draft contains quite the same shortcomings that were already highlighted at first reading on 11 June. Above all, I am thinking of the lack of significant increases in home costs for many people, not only for those who heat with liquid fuel, but also for those who use gas in some way. Also mentioned earlier today, Eesti Pank has pointed out that excise decisions will create a situation in Estonia next year where the price increase will be three times higher than this year and thus Estonia will be the country with the fastest price increase again in the euro zone. Speaking of households that are now heating their home fuel oil, the Minister promised in June that there would be some sort of compensation mechanism. Whatever it would be, he didn't know; the extent it would be, he didn't know; how the agreement would be achieved, he couldn't say. It's the same now. So by voting in favour of this bill, we will vote in favour of thousands of Estonian people having a very large heating bill or a very large one-time cost to rebuild their heating system. On the contrary, we could interrupt the procedure by justifying the fact that, if individual households are not to be repressed in this way, the second reading could only be completed once the compensation mechanism has been agreed in the red tape of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and there is some certainty for domestic consumers. It is also interesting how much revenue this bill seeks for the state budget. The increase in excise duty on fuel oil, which has already been mentioned, is expected to win EUR 7.8 million from 1 May next year; 13 million in 2016; and 45% of the current heaters are expected to remain faithful to the same heating method and 55% will change the heating system, and then 8 million euros could be more profitable than today. This shows that this change does not concern a thousand domestic consumers, but also a very large number of production plants and local authorities, and in this case also this 7.8 million or 13 million does not pass by the final consumer. Anyone who produces something must take this extra money from the consumer, and local authorities will cover the price increase at the expense of another service. It's the same with gas. It is said that the increase in gas prices next year will be just a percentage or a little more. In two years' time, however, the gas price increase is already expected to reach EUR 99 million, and if it is shared between those people who are in contact with gas in their household and even live, we will get the result that this percentage will make quite a significant amount in euro. I would also like to stop briefly on how the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been dealing with the drafts recently, because, since the change of government, the culture of administration has been very poor before, it has become extremely insane. There are not many drafts which will be given ten days by the deadline for amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This draft was discussed on 11 June and the deadline for amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 17 June. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U297	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U298	That means six days for the opposition. On 25 June at 19.23, Mr Andres Ando, Commissioner for Finance, who is still sitting in the back of the Chamber, sent a letter to the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs saying that two other amendments had to be included in the draft by the Commission the following day. It was 19.23. We congratulate officials who worked hard overtime. Four hours and 15 minutes later, or 24 minutes before midnight, Rannar Vassilyev also sent his amendments. I would understand if we had such a practice that the opposition would receive the ten-day amendments provided for in the Rules of Procedure and then the chairman of the committee could claim additional benefits and propose amendments within 15 days. But the opposition should have at least ten days, as stipulated by the Rules of Procedure. However, if the opportunities of the opposition to do their work properly are constantly being curtailed, we should not simply take a double time. I would like to remind you that the deadline for amendments was 17 June at 5.15 a.m. and not 25 June at 2336 a.m. The specific amendment concerns the increase in excise duty on alcohol, and the Centre Party certainly supports the increase in excise duty on alcohol, as well as the increase in excise duty on tobacco, but we resent the fact that one of the amendments made in the interests of the producer does not try to pretend that the Committee on Monetary Affairs can do anything with its tax policy to ensure that the alcops, particularly popular among young people, are given special treatment. The same party does nothing to get the proposal of the Centre Party concerning alcohol advertising out of the drawer. When discussing excise duties on alcohol, an amendment that is useful to one or another particular interest group is put behind it and said that it protects our consumers and keeps them in a healthier way of life. All this is very hollow talk. In fact, nothing is being done to stop alcohol consumption, as this money is needed to fill the holes in the state budget. There is no fundamental difference between putting 4 cents or 4 + 1 cents on the beer bottle next year. The fundamental problem is that amendments are made in the Riigikogu in full disregard of our Rules of Procedure, as if there were always an emergency situation that allows us to circumvent any standards. And it is certainly bad practice for some of the amendments, whether they concern garbage, whether they concern alcohol, tobacco or various transport connections, to be clearly visible from the ears of some strong stakeholders. But the main problem with this bill is, of course, that it will lead to an increase in the cost of living in the coming year. This leads to an increase in prices and the heating costs of thousands of Estonian families in excess. In Estonia, however, heating is not a luxury, but a harsh requirement of life. Therefore, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, I am handing over a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U299	In fact, a state-of-the-art situation is being created where people are being forced to make high unavoidable costs. That's how they get naked, they take away the chance to manage themselves. That doesn't make any sense! It's not sustainable! And as a result, all the same pranks that are being done here today enthusiastically for the third time are, in fact, a crime against their own people. We can't live like some kind of compass, like they used to say. We're here for the Komsomol meeting, and we've been given the task of building a dam. We now have the task of increasing child support; we have the task of doing it and doing it. The Komsomols began to wonder where they would get the money. But we take money from the rich, we take money from people! You can't live like this! I will tell you honestly and frankly: all of this cannot be tolerated indefinitely. For this simple reason, I once again call on the social democrats who want to continue to exist in this world: try to understand that patching holes in such a shocking process is not sustainable! For you, too, there are ten months until the elections, I think even less, I don't know how to calculate it. The thing is, get it straight: the more we act like this here, the more I point a finger at myself, the more people look at this whole system and say that our living environment is getting worse, even though we're trying to fix it. Improving the living environment with these targeted measures, such as child support, and in fact worsening the situation several times more from somewhere in the country, this is not fair. Today we can say that there is no child support for children growing in oil-fired houses. They don't get child support! Do we want to achieve that we give support to one part of the children but do not give support to others? It is precisely at the expense of the parents of these same children that we are actually doing so. When we get to this absurd thing that these numbers are telling us here, it really doesn't have any substance at all. Believe me, dear politicians, the handling of such drafts is criminal and must be brought to an end today and here and with common forces. Understand, it is my wish that the Social Democrats also be represented in the Riigikogu in March 2015 so that they are a reasonable party, so that they actually promote the world view that they must promote. I don't want to talk about the Reform Party. It's been a while since nothing's sacred. With this it's all clear that they're playing with all of us in turn, some people have just been out of the game for a while. I will be honest and frankly saying that if such drafts go around here in the Riigikogu, it is even nice that we were not taken into the sandbox. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U300	Thank you. Rannar Vassilyev has a rejoinder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U301	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U302	If you start from a distance, yes, exactly those two objectives of the bill are. One of the aims is to increase the revenue of the state in relation to the issues that I have marked from this remote control and which are linked to the reduction of additional expenditure and revenues, the other is to influence consumer behaviour. That is why excise duties are designed as a means of tax policy. It is precisely these two functions that are desirable to perform. As far as light fuel oil is concerned specifically, indeed, the proposed measure is not the most effective. The transition to another form of heating is planned to be supported, as was also referred to in the question, and mechanisms will be developed in the near future. It will then also be possible to assess them and discuss the entire compensation mechanism in the budgetary context.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U303	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U304	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, You have certainly had serious disputes over alcohol excise in the coalition over the last few weeks. Perhaps you will also give the Riigikogu an overview of the topics discussed and the disputes that have arisen, especially the reasons why your coalition partner Reform Party has refused to significantly increase alcohol excise duties on the wider alcohol market, that is to say, those drinks whose strength is smaller. What are the main arguments put forward? And why, regrettably, did the vote in the Committee on Monetary Affairs divide so that only six members of the Commission were in favour of the draft that you are presenting today, not of a consensual decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U305	Certainly, each coalition discusses such topics in a way that seeks to find a "common" part. I think this is a normal process in coalition policy. And certainly the coalition has also carried out a normal process on this issue. Of course, we have been discussing the matter, but I cannot speak here specifically on behalf of the Reform Party, or rather I would be inappropriate to do so. However, I think that the question is that, and frankly, it is also understandable in some respects that the Reform Party, which has been in government for a long time, is likely to find that the policies pursued so far are right and ensure that alcohol is not consumed too early. However, the general objective is to reduce alcohol consumption in Estonia. It's definitely too big right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U306	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U307	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! After all, various studies have been carried out and experts have indicated that lean alcohol aimed specifically at young people is too cheap and too accessible in Estonia. The so-called pop drinks that teach young people how to drink are particularly dangerous. It has been repeatedly stressed that it is in this sector that excise duty should rise much faster and repeat, but it is always said that this is not possible, there is no solution that will help to do this. How seriously has the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this issue? After all, the increase in excise duty on beer has been tabled as an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U308	The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the increase in the various excise duties very thoroughly. We organised our meetings according to the subject, and they were quite lengthy discussions. As far as the so-called "alcopops" are concerned, it seems to me that in general there is an idea of what they mean. It doesn't matter what they're based on. If we take, for example, cider or what we normally call cider, then it also qualifies as alcop, although its base is often a completely different, partly wine, or often stronger alcohol. The problem with the taxation of these beverages is, above all, that their basic alcohol is some kind of specific alcohol with a rate of excise duty. In fact, these alcopies may not be the cheapest drinks with degrees in the store, but they have a very high potential in the sense that young people may feel that they are not really alcoholic beverages. Certainly, they seem more delicious to young people than many other alcoholic beverages, and with their colorful labels they are tempting to consume. This is not only an Estonian problem, but a wider concern. The Commission has been in close contact with the Ministry of Finance and has examined how this problem can be addressed. Perhaps it would be possible to tax alcohol in a different way than alcohol. Many other countries of the European Union are facing the same issue and no very good solution has been found so far. I may be wrong about the country now, but I think Luxembourg has tried it recently. There is no good practice, but the Commission has certainly asked the Ministry of Finance to continue working on this issue and to look for ways to group drinks in the sense of the Excise Act in a different way than before.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U309	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U310	Thank you. I will continue on this subject. Obviously, it is more about taxing consumption, whether or not someone is protecting someone's market interests. I also ask, however, because in certain areas we do not love differences, but when it comes to alcohol taxation, we love them very much. This is even true of lean alcohol, and the same is true of tobacco. Have you discussed the possibility of equalising tobacco taxation? And I'm gonna ask you a question with a beard. Every year we raise the excise duty on strong alcohol and now we have a lower excise duty on alcohol, but we have one product group that is not called alcohol, but cologne, but is made to drink and sold over a million bottles a year a few years ago. Have you also discussed the taxation of cologne?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U311	At first reading, when there was an opportunity to ask questions to the initiator's representative, this issue was not raised. Without delving into the original sources on the basis of which these figures have arrived in the explanatory memorandum, I cannot make any further comment. But as I answered the previous question, or was that already the previous question? This computation really raises questions about the characters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U312	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U313	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I'll go on from here. Despite various historical examples, Parliament is not a rubber stamp of the government. You're the chairman of the Finance Commission. These justifications that the issue has not been discussed or is not known exactly what the draft contains and what its real effect will be on the homes burning fuel oil, in particular, do not give any reason to act here as if we do not know what decision we are taking. It is already a second reading of the bill, and if this thing goes through here today, it will be put to third reading tomorrow, and the law will be passed. But the impact on the state budget, which will be dealt with under your leadership in the autumn, and on these people, is incomprehensible. Don't you think this bill should stop reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U314	If the explanatory memorandum is wrong with the figures, then it does not change the impact of the increase in excise duty on a particular consumer. This is still calculated for light fuel oil. In this context, however, the question may indeed arise as to whether the explanatory memorandum indicates the correct number of households that use the fuel in question and whether the expected revenue from the change to the state budget is as high as that claimed in the explanatory memorandum. If this information is not correct, it must be taken into account both in the Government of the Republic and later in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in the entire Riigikogu when dealing with the sources of budget coverage. If this is not the most accurate estimate of receipts, it must be reviewed and, when discussing the budget, it must be decided whether to find additional sources of cover or reduce planned expenditure. I don't think that's a reason to interrupt second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U315	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! My question concerns excise duties on alcohol. For years there has been debate on the subject of strong alcohol versus lean alcohol and how to fix excise duty on them. We also have no common European example; the press has given examples at the edge. Great expectations were linked to the Green Paper. For years, it was said that it would come right away, be finished, and then we would get guidance from there. The experts prepared this book and wrote quite specific proposals in it, but the work of the politicians led to its nudity, and the end result was quite general. Has the Committee on Monetary Affairs benefited from the Green Paper, or must this work be declared a failure because we have nothing to take from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U316	The arguments of the Green Paper have not been used in this process in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So, according to practice, it can be argued that it is not a good document to argue in one form or another, and it does not help to give concrete answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U317	Please, Margus Tsahkna, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U318	Thank you. Good waitress! I'll move on to my first question. In replying to this, you specifically said that the effects of this bill were incorrectly presented by one, the other or the third. The government and the government coalition do not know exactly what these effects really are. I have a feeling that more numbers have been presented to patch up budget holes and to rewrite the coalition agreement, that real life will be quite different. But people are actually suffering. You said yourself that this law is going to affect people who heat fuel oil. They have to pay these taxes. The state budget largely takes into account the wrong numbers, is dimmed. I ask once again whether this level of draft law is really supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U319	I would like to stress once again that if there appear to be inaccuracies in the draft, we must review it and determine whether or not it is inaccuracies. But that doesn't change the impact of the future law on a particular person. This may affect what the government and the Riigikogu must deal with. If the impact on the state budget is smaller, this means that additional sources of cover must be found when drawing up the state budget. I would like to stress once again that this is all if it is really inaccuracies. I can't analyze the explanatory statement on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U320	Thank you very much. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U321	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If we look at the Riigikogu agendas in history, we will see that no law has been amended as often as the laws on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. In this respect, I would like to ask you, I can see that the questions are already ending, whether the Commission was discussing or what your opinion is when any further amendments to this law will come to this Chamber. Or can I get an answer to that question from the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U322	I guess this is where we have to look in particular by subject. The Act on Excise Duty regulates a wide range of areas and is therefore more frequently amended than so-called ordinary laws. One reason, however, is the European Union's directives, which have prompted earlier changes. There was no concrete plan for the revision of the excise law, however, at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At the same time, there are certainly issues, even the same issue of alcopops that has been raised here today, in relation to which this law may be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U323	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Rannar Vassilyev. I'm opening negotiations now. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U324	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the draft was getting pretty hot again here, and from somewhere on, it's perfectly normal. Now I'm taking this opportunity to go back in time while I'm on the remote. As a result of the rapid hammering of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I fell behind my life. In the debate on the previous item, I wanted to draw attention to the ease with which the state is taking interest-free loans from businesses, extending the deadline for refunding VAT to 60 days. If we owe the IRS something, interest will be charged, which is equal to the interest rate on the offices of the SMS loan, or 21% per year. Once again, I assure you that if the government and the entire government coalition are to force such a bill here, a long time cannot predict it to them. But let us now come to a specific draft, in which the absurdity is getting worse and worse. The chairman of the Monetary Commission is standing here on the board, and he is completely sober, says that he does not know what the government of the Republic of Estonia has presented to him there. She's basically just like a nice and pretty boy she likes, she likes girls, but don't ask her for God's sake if there's a thousand or ten thousand households involved, it doesn't matter. We will draw attention in a row to the fact that a dear man, grow up and act like a statesman once and for all! If the government has failed, we have been chosen here to control the government. I am no longer talking about this whole principle and the impact that this law will have on heating oil. It is foolish to say that we need to pay higher child benefits. As a rule, children are raised in these very houses, so I give with one hand, and I take with the other. What's your role in the end anyway? You're just creating a circle of zeros for a noble cause. I think there's 10,000 of these households, not 1,000, so there's gonna be some kind of logic. And if you're giving 10,000 households this shit, you haven't learned how to calculate without mistakes in school. Now they're talking about alternatives. I have repeatedly asked here that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs says that it is not right to talk about a single person, because it does not reflect real trends in society. What is society? Society is when you move on your own to a general one. I've renovated my household and started using ground heating, which is considered the most progressive. Electricity prices rose by 40% when they switched to the free market. If I use fuel oil, the bill will still grow. Now they're saying, put it all on wood pellets! I think that these men who are talking about pellets have never realized that the wood pellet is one of the most pointless perspectives that is being painted to us, because the energy used to produce the pellet is terribly large and the raw material of the pellet, by the way, comes from this very natural state of Estonia. I will tell you frankly and frankly that if promotion of the pellet continues to grow, it will eventually return to where everything goes back with the circle. Pellet's price is essentially the same as oil prices, and at some point it is also starting to rise. Does the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs know how many euros the space meter for dry birchwood costs today? I guess I don't. It costs €52 to 54 when delivered. One average household needs room meters of about 20. The prices of all kinds of fuels have gone up all the time. To talk about how we regulate here, do it and give money to children, I would call it a public robbery at the time of getting paid. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U325	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U326	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the 39th amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 40th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U327	Thank you. I would like to ask you to put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U328	Let's do it. I shall put to the vote the 40th amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 41. Amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the position of the commission is to disregard it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U329	I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U330	I shall put to the vote the 41st amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, against 56. The proposal was not supported. The 42nd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U331	I would like to vote on Amendment 42.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U332	I shall put to the vote the 42nd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour with 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 43rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. 44. the amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U333	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U334	I shall put to the vote the 44th amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 45th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U335	Let us vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U336	Let us vote in response to the request. I shall put to the vote the 45th amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Good fellows! We have examined all 45 amendments tabled on draft 682. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 682. At the same time, two proposals have been received by the Board of the Riigikogu; their content is the same. One has been submitted by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Group of the Second Estonian Centre Party, and we are invited to interrupt the second reading of the draft 682. We have to vote on this. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft 682 by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading, as well as the fourth item, is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U337	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U338	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think today the truth is beginning to come to light, which are the sources of child support growth. I do not like in any way that the increase in child benefits is covered by rising heating prices and increasing people's home costs. Nor do I like the fact that tea money is taken and used to increase social spending. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission said that you all like the growth of child benefits, so find other sources of cover. I'm just gonna read a few out here. You have reduced the income tax rate by 1%, which represents a total of EUR 80 million. There is a question of whether people should be able to live normally in Estonia and be able to pay for their home expenses or reduce their income tax by 1%, which in a person's wallet means little. Or we take the second source of cover: taxation of profits of foreign companies. About 200 million euros will be transferred tax-free out of Estonia and today it can be said that this removal is legal. The tax office recently lost the court battle with Nordea Bank, paid an additional EUR 1.5 million in interest for it, as it held back EUR 5 million of Nordea Bank's money, thinking that it was entitled to income from it. Friends, if you do not pay attention to such things and to such large sums of money, it is unfortunate that this is also a question of political choices. In this way, lending will continue, and as long as we do not put a stop to it, everything is very simple: we will increase the excise duty and thus try to balance the state budget and our revenue-costs in a seemingly balanced way. The next source where money can be found: car transport on the Paldiski-Koidula-Koidula-Paldiski route. If you drive on the Tartu highway every day, you can see the columns of huge cars. For them, everything in Estonia is free of charge. As I recall, there is no country in the European Union where there is no HGV tax. In Estonia, all these trucks travel free of charge. Why is that? Whose interests does this law protect? I don't understand. Let's take the next source. In the centre of Tallinn, the capital of the Republic of Estonia, you can own land. The house and the land under home are exempt from tax, whether you earn any income for the Estonian state or not. You can be a foreign citizen and buy a house here; you do not have to pay any taxes to the Estonian state. Where else is this possible in a European country? In my opinion, Estonia is the only country like this. We also have unduly delayed administrative reform. All our neighbours, not to mention Latvia, Lithuania, Finland and Sweden, have done administrative reform. The reform of the state could also have been carried out, so we could have found the money to cover the expenditure planned. We certainly do not agree that the sources of cover will be found at the expense of homeowners and at the expense of road storage facilities. I and the entire Group of the Centre Party do not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U339	Thank you! Ken-Marti Vaher, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U340	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As far as excise duties are concerned, some of the answers that have been heard today, where the need to find new sources of income has been pointed out over and over again. This sounded both in the answers of the Minister of Finance for Parental Pensions and in those that have now been heard. In particular, this surprises in the light of the fact that, on 3 June, the head of the government coalition, the Prime Minister in this very Parliament, stated that, in fact, the government has more than EUR 40 million to cover its promises than is needed. The question is what decisions we are making today and what are their real motives. Looks like they're hiding for some reason other than what's been said today. One of these reasons certainly relates to alcohol duty. I'm going to add a few words to today's discourse. In particular, a few or three of the most well-known myths that are circulating and which we heard today in this Chamber. First of all, we are discussing the subject of alcohol duty, depending on which category it is, whether it is those representatives of strong alcohol or less strong alcohol. We are discussing this precisely in this paradigm. I call on the members of the Riigikogu to address the issue in a completely different paradigm, and this is the starting point for common sense. Common sense tells us something different than one category or another. In my opinion, common sense is also well reflected in the views of many health experts and health promotion organisations that have been received by Parliament. For example, the Estonian Health Foundation, the Estonian Scouts Association, the Estonian Health Promotion Association, the Estonian Society of Medical Students and the Whole Estonian Foundation. Very many health experts have also expressed their views in the public. It should be easy to understand that, since the share of strong alcohol in alcohol consumption is clearly lower and more alcohol is consumed with less strength, this consumption of lighter drinks affects not only those who are addicted to alcohol but, above all, the most important and difficult target group for us, which is young people. According to recent studies, there has been a significant increase in alcohol consumption among women, especially young women, and it starts primarily with thinner alcohol, not stronger stuff. Our biggest problem compared to other European countries is not where we are compared to the European Union average, but, above all, that the majority of alcohol in Estonia is taxed at a very low excise rate. The idea of excise duties is to influence the behaviour of consumers. In this case, it is primarily important how much alcohol is consumed in Estonia, and our goal as a parliament should be to reduce this total consumption. At the current rates of excise duty, we are essentially not affected by the majority of the alcohol market. The government initially agreed to an increase in the rate of excise duty, which seems numerically high at 15%, but this 15% increase in alcohol excise duty actually means that half a litre of a drink with a lower strength will be more expensive than a few or three cents. Marje Josing, Director of the Estonian Conjuncture Institute, has made it very clear that excise duty on alcohol should be higher than the average wage increase so that it would have some effect on consumer behaviour patterns. This proposal was supported in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but regrettably, only with a very narrow majority. I very much hope that Parliament will listen to the sound of common sense. After all, health experts also say that we need to take effective steps to change the behaviour of most alcohol users, especially young people and other primary users. The later the drinking will take place, the better, so there is a need to significantly increase the excise duty rate for alcohol with a lower strength. Young people start with drinks with a smaller strength. The conclusions of research over the last ten years, and especially in the last five years, can be summarised in a very simple sentence: alcohol consumption at an early age significantly increases the risk of alcohol dependence in adulthood. It also enhances the tendency to engage in other forms of addiction, crime and close-relationship violence, hence deviant behaviour in society as a whole. We understand perfectly that the steps that we can take to significantly increase alcohol excise duty are certainly one very important step that affects people's behaviour, the amount that we, as Parliament, have to allocate each financial year to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice to combat the consequences of alcoholism, to reduce crime, to finance prison places, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to ignore the views of stakeholders. My position and that of the IRL as a whole is that we have to tax excise duties effectively and sufficiently for both strong and thinner alcohol. Smaller intensity alcohol is currently subject to little taxation in Estonia, with a five-fold lower rate in Estonia compared to Finland. Even if we significantly increase the excise duty on alcohol here today, we are very much behind our northern neighbour, with whom we have a very specific common market. So there is little reason to talk about a secret market or about the transfer of alcohol from one society to another, the main thing is how to influence young people to give up alcohol. The second objective is to influence young people, at least in such a way as to push drinking into the future as far away as possible. And thirdly, of course, the aim is to achieve significant results in both crime prevention and crime prevention and public health promotion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U341	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We are going to examine the amendments to the draft 682. 45 amendments have been received. The first amendment has been tabled by the lead committee, the second amendment has been tabled by the lead committee, the third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, and it has been partially taken into account by the lead committee. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U342	Thank you, manager. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for the fourth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U343	Let's start preparing the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. 36 delegates voted in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U344	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U345	Let's start preparing for the vote. I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 55 members of the Riigikogu, against 30 and 1 abstention. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U346	Thank you. I would ask for this IRL proposal to be supported and voted in such a way that it will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U347	I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U348	Thank you. That is also a good proposal and I ask you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U349	I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The ninth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. The tenth amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 11 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 12 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 13 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 14 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 15 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 16 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 17 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 18 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 19 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 20 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 21 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 22 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 23 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 24 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 25 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 26 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 27 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 28 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The 29th amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 30 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 31 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 32 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 33 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Amendment 34 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; this has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 35, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 36th amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 37th amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 38 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; this has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 39 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; this has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U350	Thank you. On behalf of the IRL Group, I would like to ask you to vote and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U351	We will move on to the fifth item, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U352	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed a draft of 683 second readings in preparation at two meetings, on 17 June and 26 June. By the deadline of 16 June at 15:00, seven proposals were received, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself decided to make three amendments, one of which was due to the proposal of the Estonian Fund Managers' Association. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. In short, once again, the aim of the draft. In particular, the draft aims to adjust the principles and procedures for drawing up the list of non-profit organisations, foundations and religious associations benefiting from the income tax exemption provided for in § 11 of the Income Tax Act, to reduce the tax burden on labour, including the tax burden on low-paid persons by increasing the tax-free rate from EUR 144 to EUR 154 per month, to resolve the problems encountered in the implementation of the Act and to clarify the meaning of the law. Certain changes are also necessary in relation to the new forms of declaration that are due to be introduced from 2015. Due to the amendment of the Income Tax Act, the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act is also amended to ensure the exemption from income tax on grants paid by cultural capital. In addition, the Cultural Capital Board shall be empowered to lay down the basis for the payment of the bonuses, scholarships and grants paid by the Cultural Capital Board. I will now give an overview of the issues and questions that were discussed in the Commission, including the amendments. Two of the three amendments drawn up by the Committee on Finance itself are of a technical nature. The amendment, drawn up in response to a letter from the fund managers, further allows for a tax-neutral merger between the contractual funds managed by the various management companies...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U353	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear members of the Riigikogu, Mr Sõerd is here in the Riigikogu Chair, is giving a speech, and I ask that we respect those who wish to listen to it, and we also respect the waitress! There's too much noise in the hall, it's interfering with the manager, and I think the waitress too. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U354	The amendment, which has been drawn up in response to a letter from the fund managers, further allows for a tax-neutral merger between the contractual funds managed by the different management companies. The Committee on Finance decided not to accept the remaining amendments received, for the following reasons. Amendment 1 The reduction in the rate of income tax has already been legalised and there is no reason to violate the legitimate expectations that accompany it. This is a reduction in the tax burden on growth-enhancing labour, in addition to which it is planned to increase the tax-free rate in 2015. The country's budgetary strategy for 2015-2018 also provides for an additional annual increase in this rate. Amendments 3 to 5. Raising the additional tax-free minimum prematurely will have a negative impact on the state budget. As stated, according to the national fiscal strategy, the tax-free rate will be gradually increased to EUR 184 per month by 2018. With regard to Amendment 7, it has to be said that the replacement allowance and the reservist's salary are taxable under the current law, since they are essentially replacement incomes during re-studies and during replacement service. The taxation of agricultural payments in the European Union is justified because they compensate farmers for loss of income, compensate for market failures or tax on support in respect of certain activities. With regard to Amendment No 8, the aim is to introduce the same taxation of shoes and inheritances and to restore the situation of the Supreme Court until the relevant decision. Amendment 10. The tax credit is intended to support the activities of companies listed in the list of preferential income tax societies, in particular civil society organisations. In order to ensure equal treatment, cultural capital should also be included among the recipients of tax-free donations, a similar advantage should be granted to similar organisations operating in other countries of the EEA Agreement. However, we do not have an overview of them and the Estonian tax administration cannot control their activities. In order to achieve the objective of this amendment, it would also have been necessary to amend Articles 49 and 27 of the Income Tax Act in addition to the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. With regard to proposals relating to the exemption of scholarships, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also addressed a letter from the Estonian Taxpayers' Association. We maintained our position to support the original wordings of § 19 (5) and (7) of the draft law, which deal with the concept of scholarship, on the basis of the principle that the award of a bonus as a scholarship is not permitted. The chairman of the committee informed the Commission of the planned round table, where representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board should take part. The aim is to clarify the application of the law in relation to the application of scholarship taxation. The Commission also discussed the relationship between the amendment of the law and the legal expectations of the subjects. One Member of the Commission did not consider it appropriate to tax the aid paid to natural persons under the Act implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. The chairman of the committee acknowledged that the regulation of agricultural payments should be reviewed and that equal treatment should be ensured and that the subject should be dealt with in the future. The Commission took the following decision: to propose that the second reading of the draft be completed. 30 June at the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. There were 6 and 5 members of the Commission in favour of this decision, with no abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U355	Thank you. You have questions. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U356	Thanks! Thank you for your presentation, which gave an overview of what was being said in the Commission. But one place is a little unclear to me, maybe you can specify it. This concerns so-called sports scholarships, for which there are already different court rulings. Has there been any discussion about this, and if so, how can we proceed in this regard? There is probably a lot of confusion and expectation about this issue in the Estonian sports community.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U357	Thank you for your question. This is the subject we addressed in the Commission's debate. The stated definition of scholarship, which was previously not in tax law, will certainly provide further clarity. However, in the Commission's discussions, the view remained that the cases are different, with each case in its own hands. There will still be a key role, as in tax matters at all, in the tax authorities who will assess the circumstances of each individual case if it proves necessary. I also know that the tax authorities intend to provide information on the practice to be implemented in order to establish the rules of the game unambiguously with interested parties. They must, of course, be taken into account in this law if the draft is adopted in accordance with the conditions laid down and the definition of scholarship.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U358	Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U359	Dear waitress, I would like a more detailed comment on the rejection of Amendment 10. This was proposed by colleagues Lang, Lock and Swan. Is it your argument that if Estonia makes a tax concession for donations to a person governed by public law by its law, this should also be done for all persons governed by public law operating in the European Union? Is our summer migration really that tight?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U360	That's not a very precise idea. First of all, the background is that there was an infringement procedure in Estonia in 2012, as a result of which the Income Tax Act was clarified. It was considered that similar non-profit organisations from the countries of the EEA Agreement should also be included in the list of non-profit organisations benefiting from income tax. This amendment was made to the law a few years ago. If we now add cultural capital to the list of institutions that can be donated free of income tax, the same problem arises that this advantage must extend to similar institutions in the European Economic Area. What are these institutions in other Member States and how many there are, the representative of the Ministry of Finance said that it is difficult for the tax authorities to find out in practice and it is not known how many there are. Since it is European Union tax law and the taxpayers of all Member States must be treated equally, the Commission's position is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U361	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U362	Dear waitress, I also ask about sports scholarships. There is plenty of confusion, and many clubs are anxious to see what happens next. You said that the definition of a sports scholarship, hopefully, became clearer. If this law is passed, could sports funding and scholarships go on a clean slate or should we look back in history? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U363	This question concerns the work of the tax authorities, how they deal with previous cases. The tax authority itself has said that it is generally sympathetic. In fact, the legislator cannot prescribe to the tax authorities who will be reviewed or to what extent to be reviewed. The law gives a general rule, its implementation is still the exclusive competence of the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U364	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U365	Dear waitress, Thank you for your additional explanation. But did I understand correctly that any non-profit organisation and foundation operating in the European Union can submit an application and will be entered on the list of non-profit organisations and foundations that will be drawn up or maintained by the Tax and Customs Board? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U366	The current bill doesn't change anything here. I referred to an earlier amendment to the Income Tax Act, which concerned it. This bill does not change anything, and it means that everyone will be treated equally when it comes to taxation. The same non-profit organisations in other Member States, if they meet the conditions laid down, will be entitled to a tax-free donation. But it is not a question of the draft we are debating today; it is an amendment to the Income Tax Act two years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U367	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U368	Honourable waitress! In my opinion, Mr Allik's question was very well founded. That's the way it is. I, too, understood in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that if you wish to register non-profit organisations in this register, it will be extended regardless of the origin of the NGO. I have also realised that there are no particular obstacles to the implementation of the proposal of three members of the Riigikogu concerning the exemption from income tax of donations to cultural capital. If we want to do so, there are no substantive obstacles to this, only technical solutions are needed. In the same way, certain national procedures can be launched, so that we can regulate who will be the beneficiary institutions, just as we have done in the case of non-profit organisations. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U369	No, it's not that simple. These technical specifications or amendments may, of course, be specified in... [[It's ringing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U370	I'm sorry! Put it on silent, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U371	You also understood that the initiator of the draft was against it, the Ministry of Finance had a number of objections. First of all, the same advantage must then be extended to other similar institutions in the European Economic Area if they meet the conditions imposed on our taxpayers. The second argument was that donors, if they are individuals, would receive the relevant income tax back and would essentially also move into the cultural capital of income tax money. That was the ministry's thinking. So there were also technical reasons why the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U372	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U373	I understood this very well that the initiator of the draft, or government, is opposed to it and that some revenue would not be collected in this way by the state. Well, that's probably the main reason they're opposed. I understood that it was technically possible to organise this if there was political will. Just as well, we can create a register of capitals or any other register and register the Estonian Cultural Endowment there with a tone of a very simplified, primitive figure. We can register it, and if there are other such associations in the Member States of the European Union that wish to extend this benefit to them on the territory of Estonia, they will come and register themselves, as the MTÜ is registered. There is a legal framework and it is also possible to implement it. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U374	Thank you for your question. That's basically the way it's supposed to be. If we create a tax credit for someone in our national law, then we must treat the European Economic Area in the same way as taxpayers. However, it is difficult to argue with the argument that we do not know how many are in the European Economic Area. As a result, we also do not know what the impact of the change would have on the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U375	Any more questions? No further questions. Good waitress, thank you! I open negotiations and ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U376	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm on the remote for the third time today. The Estonian people have a long tradition of saying that three are the law of the court. And for the third time, I want to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we are once again dealing with a bill whose substantive components are partly correct. The state must address various bottlenecks in an operational manner, especially when they concern taxation. But as a whole, it is again a bill that bears the seal of a certain nervousness. An increase of 10 euros in the tax-free minimum, let us be honest, will not bring substantial success to anyone. The apolitical opinion leaders of our society, whom we all generally accept, have come up with quite radical ideas on how to get Estonia out of poverty. Let's just say that the objective of EUR 1000 for Indrek Neivelt is intriguing and attractive in a literary sense, but unfortunately, it certainly does not have the undertone of the substantive proposal. At the same time, I dare say that the amendments proposed by the Centre Party Group to raise the income tax-free minimum are, in my understanding, completely reasonable, because they are based on the Estonian circumstances and take into account the idea that, as we propose, by raising the income tax-free minimum, we would achieve the current minimum wage by 2020. It is quite clear, however, that the government coalition will stick to raising the EUR 10. Look, for the third time, I would like to point out that the time for a deeper, comprehensive debate on taxes is now at hand. The opponents say that we would be happy to raise the tax-free minimum. Even from Jürgen Ligi's mouth, at one point, it sounded emotionally, though, that why not set it at EUR 500, I support it. But no one really expects 500 euros. The question is, broadly speaking, that if we leave less insured people earning more money through a less tax-free minimum, it will indeed affect the income tax receipts in the state budget, but it will certainly improve the standard of living for these people. Much of the people directly affected will not be able to raise money, but they will bring it into circulation, into consumption, in this way promote the domestic economy and, in this way, which they will deny, will be able to improve their living environment a little bit. In fact, this could result in slightly more indirect payments to the state budget. Now they're about to ask where your sources are. You see, dear people, even the Centre Party is probably going to have a time when it has to start thinking that 15 years of just multiplying the idea of progressive income tax is not very reasonable. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U377	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U378	Okay, let's not talk about progressive income tax. We are talking about raising the tax-free minimum significantly, but at the same time we will stop reducing everyone's uniform income tax and bring more money to the state budget as a source of cover. Our draft states clearly that our proposals have an impact of around EUR 80 million. We are honest, wages in absolute terms have increased, which in reality means that 1% of income tax impairment can be about the same size. Consequently, if all parties wanted to talk about the welfare of the state and the public in substance, a serious and cross-party debate could be launched on the fact that suddenly it would be reasonable to increase the individual's income tax to 23 or 24%, while increasing the tax-free minimum. By doing so, we would harmonise thousands of people's incomes by helping the bottom end to catch up. My speech here today does not claim to praise that I have prepared my analysis in detail. But believe me, this approach could be sensible, especially from the point of view of people who currently receive relatively low wages in Estonia. The second topic of this debate could be that we generally complain that we have very low incomes. I think that a key solution to be discussed could be the proposal to give part of the labour costs away, figuratively speaking, from the employer to the employee. And imagine that then a person earning EUR 1 000 will finally realise with full responsibility that the employer is actually spending EUR 1 700 to pay him EUR 1,000. Essentially, the person's labour costs are EUR 1700, a little less.6 is now the coefficient. Actually, We could say emotionally that we are no longer three times behind Finland, as we are, based on statistics, on average wages and everything else, as if all the time we are forced to admit. Strangely enough, with EUR 1700, we are already doing it, we are only going to be behind Finland twice at the bottom. And right away, we're gonna be happier, and we're gonna be better at running and working. Understand, dear men and women, that with ten-euro pranks we are in some ways creating the most classic political populism. And if we say that maybe someday we'll put something else in there, then forgive me, I shouldn't worry about the health of the coalition, but I'm worried about politics as a whole. Without politics, without democracy, a dictatorship could develop in the country at some point. Forgive me, if we're always twitching like this, it doesn't make sense, it's not a substantive solution to the problems. As you have seen, I have made a very bold statement: I said that the Centre Party is prepared to temporarily abandon the dogma of graduated income tax if it would lead society to debate the tax system as a whole. And I call on you to do it! This could be a joint project for the 2015 elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U379	Thank you. I now request the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U380	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with positive things for this bill as well. First of all, it is a good thing that the government has not linked the draft to a vote of confidence, which means that we can process it in the Riigikogu in essence. Secondly, it gives coalition ambassadors the opportunity to vote freely, without fearing that the government will have to resign if the draft Riigikogu does not support the proposed form. As far as the content of the draft is concerned, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association will certainly support an increase in the tax-free rate from EUR 144 to EUR 154, even though it will leave only EUR 2 more to people per month than it has done so far. But this is definitely a change in the positive direction. It is only a pity that victory is so modest and that the law does not provide for an increase in the rate of tax-free income after four years, even though the government has recorded this country's budget strategy. Several problems remain, but we hope that they will be dealt with in the course of the procedure. First of all, we are not as optimistic as the representative of the Commission, who said that adding the definition of scholarships to the law, more precise definition of scholarships, will provide much greater clarity. Yes, the definition really is, but it's so general that it doesn't bring any more clarity, and the actual practice probably doesn't change. The Tax and Customs Board is probably based on a specific case and on the definition of a scholarship in law. I do not think that there will be real practical benefits in every particular case. However, the biggest problem with the draft is certainly that agricultural subsidies are taxed. We have provided support for natural persons under the European Union's law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy. The total amount paid to them each year is EUR 1,5 million. It is not enough to tax thousands of natural persons in this form, to create more bureaucracy and, most of all, to impose unequal treatment of companies, self-employed persons and natural persons. During the debate in the Commission, there was a recommendation that all natural persons may register as self-employed persons. Yes, they may, but this is where the moment arises that they are treated differently and we create additional bureaucracy: self-employed people must be registered in a business register and they must start accounting and so on. This does not make sense, especially for natural persons with modest entrepreneurship and relatively low income. And also: it is certainly a bad practice that this is a cluster law, one of the objectives of which is to increase the tax-free rate, which we support in any case, on the other hand, the draft has the shortcomings that we have highlighted and which are not at all linked to the tax-free rate. Everything has been put into one cluster law, and we have to make a decision, yes or no. This is an example of a very bad political culture and we cannot support it in any way. The government coalition has an opportunity to improve this bill. In the course of the procedure, I must admit, it has not improved yet, but this opportunity is and we still have that faith. Therefore, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U381	Thank you. There's no more calls. We will begin the examination of the amendments to the draft 683. Ten amendments have been received. The first amendment is tabled by the Central Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U382	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U383	I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 is tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 3 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U384	I ask for the third amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U385	I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, against 53. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U386	I ask for the fourth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U387	I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U388	Thank you. I would like to ask for the fifth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U389	I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the commission. The seventh amendment is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U390	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U391	I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica. Please take a stand and vote. The result is in favour of 14 members of the Riigikogu, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U392	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U393	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 8, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please take a stand and vote. The result is in favour of 12 members of the Riigikogu, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The tenth amendment tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Lauri Luige, Tiina Lokk-Tramberg and Rein Lang, has not been taken into account by the commission. This proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. We have examined all ten amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Two letters have come to the Board of the Riigikogu, one from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the other from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The content of both letters is the proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 683. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica to interrupt the second reading of the draft 683. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading is closed and the fifth item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U394	Let us move on to the sixth item, the second reading of the draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs, 687. Mr Kalle Palling, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U395	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the transmission of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act to second reading of 687 on Thursday 19 June. The draft was initiated by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U396	Whoa, whoa, whoa! Good waitress, I'm so sorry! There's a lot of noise all over the hall. We are discussing draft 687. You shouldn't hear another word in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U397	Noise!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U398	Yeah, noise! That's right! Thank you for helping the manager. Please, good fellows, respect the waitress! Before you is Kalle Palling, Member of the Economic Commission, Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee. Please, Mr. Waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U399	The first reading took place on 11 June. The deadline for submitting the amendments was set at 17 June and one amendment was tabled, which was that of the Estonian Central Party Group. The Government of the Republic issued a supporting position and Estonia Energia AS gave an opinion on the draft. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for a meeting of the Commission at its meeting on 18 June, with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Commission discussed the preparation of the draft second reading at its meeting on 19 June, where representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also participated. The Commission decided to make four amendments, all submitted to the Commission by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, partly driven by the opinion of Eesti Energia AS. The opinion submitted by Eesti Energia found that certain parts of the draft explanatory memorandum should be clarified. The procedural decisions were as follows: when an extraordinary session of the Riigikogu is convened, the proposal to terminate the second reading of draft 687 and, when the second reading is closed, the final vote will be held. There were six members of the Commission in favour of this proposal, no one opposed, with three abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-30_U400	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? I don't see any wishes, so we don't open negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 687. Five proposals have been received to amend the draft. The first is from the commission, the second from the Estonian Centre Party Group, and the position of the commission is to ignore it. Due to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. The third amendment is from the lead committee, the fourth amendment is from the lead committee, as well as the fifth amendment from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. In line with the proposal of the commission, the second reading is closed and the sixth item is also dealt with. Good fellows! Our hearing isn't over yet. I have information to pass on to you regarding the convening of the extraordinary session. On the basis of § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, on the proposal of 23 members of the Riigikogu, invites the Chamber of Toompea Castle to convene an extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. This will take place on July 1, 2014, i.e. tomorrow, beginning at 12 noon. There are eight items on the agenda of the extraordinary session: first, the third reading of draft 644; second, the third reading of draft 680; third reading of draft 682; fourth, the third reading of draft 683; fifth, the third reading of draft 687; sixth, the third reading of draft 681; seventh, the first reading of draft 695; and eighth, the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice No 28 to bring Article 116 (1) to the Constitution. The session shall continue until the agenda is exhausted. Good fellows, thank you. Today's trial is over. Good luck in our work! Closure of the sitting at 4.36 p.m.
