ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the third working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, We are handing over the draft law amending the Forest Act. The draft law amending the Forest Act has been prepared because of the special features of forest use in the scattered and densely populated areas. The aim of the amendment to the Forest Act is to take into account the rights and interests of the owner of forest growing in densely populated areas in a more broad and sustainable manner. Unfortunately, the local government does not have a legal provision to express its position on the Forest Communication on forest growing in densely populated areas. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] At the same time, these polyfunctional forests are particularly highly valued by the public. Local authorities, as the main organiser of local life, should have a legal right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. This is the law that has probably been most amended in this century. Our proposal is to change it again because one of the ideas of 2001 when the then chairman of the Reform Party spoke of a reduction in income tax has become an obsession with the government. Unfortunately, society has changed in the meantime, and very many people prefer to have 1% of their income tax available to the state to be able to deliver better public services and fulfil its obligations. Therefore, it is our proposal to amend Paragraph 4 (1) of the Income Tax Act and to provide that next year Estonia will have a tax rate of 21%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Please, let's do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of draft 702 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Peep Aru, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U7	Thank you for your confidence, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U8	Thank you so much for coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, On 22 September, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the referral of this draft to second reading. No amendments to the draft were received. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself did not find any good reason why this draft text should be amended, so today we are going to have a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U10	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U11	Dear colleague, are you very pleased with the situation that has developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U12	Yes, I am satisfied that there are no differences of opinion and that Parliament is so monolithic in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U13	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There doesn't seem to be any requests. No amendments to bill 702 have been received. The commission has requested a final vote of 702 on the draft, no one has protested, so we will start preparing the final vote. I will put Bill 702 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 84 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 702 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has been adopted as a decision. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U14	Let's move on to the second item. This is the first reading of Aivar Koka, Andrus Saare, Erki Noole, Peeter Laurson and Toomas Tõniste's draft law on supplementing the Waste Act. I am pleased to ask Erki Nool, Member of the Riigikogu, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U15	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu Erki Nool, Aivar Kokk, Peeter Laurson, Toomas Tõniste and Andrus Saare have initiated a draft law supplementing the Waste Act. The addition of § 119 of the Waste Act is due to the need for a clear wording in the law that consumers can turn to the Consumer Protection Board to protect their rights when providing an organised waste shipment service. There are very many cases where the rights of consumers have been undermined by waste shippers. For example, they have introduced illegal rates of charges for additional services and are detrimental to consumers' rights. There have also been cases where the shipper has unlawfully charged the customer for issuing a paper bill under the Waste Shipment Service contract. Neither the Waste Act nor the Consumer Protection Act provide one answer to the question whether the Consumer Protection Board is competent to resolve complaints relating to the provision of a waste shipment service. Waste shippers, owners and local authorities have understood the competence of the Consumer Protection Board differently. Once the law enters into force, legal clarity will be better ensured and consumers will be able to better exercise their rights to high-quality and accessible waste transport services through the Consumer Protection Board. The amendment is very simple. Paragraph 119 of the Waste Act is supplemented by paragraph 12 as follows: 'The provision of the service referred to in section 66 (1) of this Act is supervised by the Consumer Protection Board. ' The law enters into force in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U16	Thank you, good waitress. Let's get to the questions. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As we know, the Waste Act was already under discussion in the Riigikogu last year and almost the whole year it was in your led committee drawer. Why didn't you put these good and wise proposals into the law adopted in June?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U18	When you talk about the draft law 455 and you also look at the result of the vote and the verbatim report, you will see that very many members of the Riigikogu had their own opinion on how good or bad this bill is. Throughout this discussion, it turned out that the authors of draft 455 wished to protect the consumer by repealing Paragraph 66 (11) of the Waste Act, as was the case in their explanatory memorandum. The authors of the bill and the Estonian Waste Operators' Association supporting the bill were of the opinion that consumer protection in the field of waste did not work. We submitted our proposal before the draft law 455 reached the Riigikogu Hall for second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U19	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good Erki, I congratulate you on this bill for its fiery defence both in the Commission and in this Chamber. But I ask why one side shouldn't be the Consumer Protection Board and the other side is the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U21	Initiators do not consider the granting of additional powers to the Competition Authority to be justified because, under § 57 of the Competition Act in force, the Agency has the right to request information from all natural and legal persons and their representatives, as well as from public authorities and local authorities and their officials for the purpose of analysing the competitive situation. The transport of waste carried out to ensure competition is possible and the originator does not see the need to improve the competence of the Competition Authority. In addition, the Mayor and the Chancellor of Justice also ensure that the legislation and competition of local authorities are monitored. In order for the consumer to have a clearer procedure, the initiator sees the clarification of the supervision of the Consumer Protection Board as the only one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U22	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. For a presentation, please contact Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U23	Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 September, the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed draft 688 as the second item on the agenda for its meeting. Kaili Kuusk, Adviser to the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, also participated in the meeting. At the meeting of the Commission, the rapporteur, Mr Nool, Member of the Commission, presented the draft to us and this we heard a moment ago in this Chamber as well. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment communicated to us the position of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft law supplementing the Waste Act in its proposed form, as such a general reference to the supervision carried out by the Consumer Protection Board does not clarify the situation or increase legal clarity in standing up for the interests of consumers. In fact, the Consumer Protection Board still has the right to monitor the contract for the shipment of waste when it concerns a particular consumer. In fact, extending the powers of the Consumer Protection Board to the extent and indeterminate, as foreseen in the draft, would mean changing the consumer concept in consumer protection law and reviewing the whole law. This would lead us to believe that a housing association, a company or a legal person, should also be considered as a consumer. However, this would probably be too big and unnecessary a change, especially given the fact that the members of the Committee on the Environment are very well aware that all these issues, which specifically concern this draft, have already been discussed in detail in the course of the procedure of draft 455. At the time, different options were considered, and draft 455 was sent to this hall and passed as a law. It therefore took a few minutes for the draft 688 discussions at the committee, after which it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 25 September, i.e. today. It was also proposed to reject the draft (by 5 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions as well) and to appoint the speaker to act as rapporteur for the Commission. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-25_U24	Good waitress, thank you. There don't seem to be any questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? This is an opportunity. No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that draft 688 should be rejected at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 688 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu, 12 against and no abstentions. Draft Act 688 on supplementing the Waste Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu Aivar Koka, Andrus Saare, Erki Noole, Peeter Laurson and Toomas Tõniste has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Dear colleagues, our second item on the agenda is closed. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10:18 a.m.
