ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U2	Madam President! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Recently, there have been increased cases where private roads are sold for profit in the event of the bankruptcy of a private road owner, a real estate manager. The public interest suffers from it. The Social Democrats do not think it is right that we have reached such a point in our extreme liberalism in Estonia that our laws no longer protect people. That is why, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over a draft law which, in a situation where the owner of a private road goes bankrupt and where there is a great public interest at stake, would give the local government the right to buy. Notar would be obliged to inform the local government of the wish to sell within three days. I very much hope that we will get a great deal of support for our proposal, because this bill really serves the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U3	Thank you. No further drafts or enquiries are recommended. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now I'll give you the messages. On Wednesday 12 February, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu and the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 18 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Defence League Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the Defence Forces Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Secretary of Defense Urmas Reinsalu of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law, which is submitted by the government to Parliament for discussion and decision, reflects the policy of the Defence Forces and the Veterans of the Defence League, approved by the Government. We have foreseen four practical steps to support members of the Defence Forces who served on foreign missions, as well as members of the Defence Forces who were injured in the service of the Estonian Defence Forces and members of the fallen Defence Forces. The draft provides for the following practical changes: Firstly, in the event of incapacity for work of a member of the Defence Forces and of a member of the Defence League, the benefit is paid out once. Since the damage to health caused by the service of the Defence Forces is often of a lasting nature and the person's ability to earn a living does not return to the former level, it is not justified and fair to pay the prescribed compensation in several parts, as is currently the case. Secondly, participation in an international military operation will increase the active service pension. The active military member participating in the mission shall be increased by 1% for each mission. If, for example, an active soldier has accumulated 20 years of active service, he or she shall be entitled to an active service pension at the age of 50, amounting to 50% of the average salary of the post on which the amount of his or her pension is calculated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U6	Sorry, waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, there is too much buzz in the hall. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U7	Each year, by which the active service of an active officer exceeds 20 years of active service, an additional 2.5% will be added to 50%. Usually one mission lasts six months. On the basis that one year of active service increases the pension by 2.5%, one mission will give an increase of 1% in round terms. Overall, this measure increases pensions by around 2% for many, as veterans have been involved in international military operations twice. Thirdly, an increase in disability pension. A person who has lost all or part of his or her capacity in the performance of his or her duties shall be entitled to a disability pension under the Defence Services Act in force. The draft will increase the basic amount for calculating the disability pension and make it dependent on the average gross monthly wage published by Statistics Estonia for the second half of the calendar year. The average disability pension paid to members of the Defence Forces in 2012 was 353 euros per month. Under the new system, a disability pension for 100% of incapacity for work would be EUR 1064 per month and EUR 798 per month if the loss of capacity for work is between 50 and 90%. This change is important in order to give the Defence Forces a stronger feeling that they can cope financially even if the injury is no longer able to earn a decent salary. It is also important to have the principle that, under the new system, all members of the Defence Forces are equal when they receive disability pensions. The former system accounted for the position, the last income, and under the new system, all injured defence forces are equal. The calculation is based on the extent of the injury and the average gross monthly wage. The fourth amendment relates to the previous one: an increase in the survivor's pension is also linked to the transition to a similar model. So far, the last salary of the Defence Forces has been calculated on the basis of the amount of survivor's pension paid to the former dependants of the Defence Forces, and is now also subject to one and a half times the national average gross monthly wage. In the Defence Forces, 33 members of the Defence Forces have died in the course of their duties. The principle of veteran policy is that the state offers considerable support to their own. According to the draft, the survivor's pension per person receiving the pension is 35% of the basic amount, i.e. EUR 465 per month, 55% of the basic amount per person receiving the pension, i.e. EUR 731 per month. In summary, these changes serve the goal set in Veteran Policy: the Defence Forces must have the confidence that the state will carry out its duty to take care of both injured soldiers and those who will remain supportive when the Defence Forces die in the service of the Estonian state. It is foreseen that the law will enter into force on 1 October of this year. I ask Parliament to discuss and support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U8	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Secretary of Defense. Aivar Riisalu, vice-chairman of the National Defence Commission, for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U9	Madam President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This is indeed a draft which has a symbolic meaning for the Estonian state. The National Defence Committee discussed this before sending it to first reading at its meeting on 27 January. This session was attended by the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and officials of the Ministry of Defence as representatives of the initiator of the draft. Since the Minister gave a fairly comprehensive overview of the nature of the draft, I am not going to go over it here. In short, however, it can be said that this is about bringing the principles of veteran policy developed in Estonia into legislation, which really enhances the security of defence forces and defence allies. They can be sure of the state's support if something serious happens to them. At its meeting on 27 January, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 11 February and to propose that the first reading of the draft be terminated. It was decided to appoint a speaker here. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be ten working days, as provided for by the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The deadline is therefore February 26th at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U10	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The first reading of draft 579 should be terminated on the proposal of the lead committee. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 26 February at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U11	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic'. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Secretary of Defense of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia has been a fully-fledged part of Western space in the world for years. Our membership of NATO and the European Union has led to a situation where we can say with certainty that Estonia's security has never been better guaranteed in history. However, this situation is not self-evident. Enjoying benefits also means being responsible for ensuring collective, i.e. the security of the Western world. In the current 21st century, responsibility is not only about preparing for a conventional war attack, but also about dealing with other threats, including cyber attacks, terrorism and the threat of genocide in crisis zones. There will probably always be more crises in the world than countries have the will and the ability to eliminate them. This does not mean, however, that Estonia should shirk by referring to its weak possibilities and missing vital interests. On the contrary, Estonia must consider its opportunities to make a viable contribution where it is urgently needed, where our contribution has both a symbolic meaning and a substantial added value. Now the situation in the Central African Republic more closely. The crisis there is one of the world's most burning. There is no doubt that Estonia's aid is also very welcome. The Central African Republic is a country of approximately Ukraine's size and 4.5 million inhabitants. It is a scattered land where the functioning of state authority is at risk. The conflict that has escalated between the two communities cannot be resolved without external intervention. To date, thousands of people have been killed in the clashes between groups that mainly bring together Christians, which are called Séléka, mainly made up of Muslims. 2.4 million people, half the population, need medical and humanitarian aid. Nearly a million people, or a quarter of the population, are refugees who have left their homes in fear of violence. As a result, the delivery of humanitarian aid to those in need is a key issue alongside the mitigation of the hostilities of the two communities. This is a real logistical and security challenge. Against this background, the international community, led by France, decided to intervene decisively in the conflict last December. The UN Security Council has entrusted the African Union with the task of stopping hostilities and delivering humanitarian aid to the respective peacekeeping mission of the African Union and the French who support it. In January, the European Union, the United Nations, the United States and other organisations made more than $500 million available for humanitarian aid and the restoration of basic services. Estonia supported the Central African Republic in 2013 with a total of EUR 130000. This year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has pledged EUR 100000 to alleviate the situation of internally displaced persons suffering from violence. It should be added that both the financial assistance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the planned military assistance of the Ministry of Defence within the framework of the European Union mission are not in conflict with the Estonian African strategy being drawn up under the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Estonia's important ally, France, in compliance with international law, asked other countries of the European Union, for humanitarian, moral and security reasons, to help meet the objectives set by the United Nations. Estonia was the first to make a public offer of assistance. I think this was a positive example for the other countries of the European Union. We also expressed clear political support for France. As was estimated a month ago, France and Estonia are not the only countries contributing to the European Union's Central African Republic mission. Sweden, Great Britain and Poland have announced that they will support air transport, Lithuania will provide logistical support, and Finland will contribute to the mission with members of the Defence Forces. In addition, there is a long list of other countries that are considering or have already decided on their contribution, but have not yet informed the public about it. It is a fact that cooperation in operations strengthens allied relations between countries. It is in our interest to strengthen bilateral relations with a country whose central role in European and transatlantic affairs has increased further in recent years. France is one of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council, the nuclear state and militaryly the most capable forces in Europe. More importantly, France has repeatedly proven, in recent years, for example in Libya and Mali, that it has the political will to exert this power. It is quite worth reminding here that the Baltic Air Security Mission, in which allies' planes protect our airspace, is essentially also a military operation. Since the launch of the mission in 2004, France has been security to our airspace four times. More has come here only five times in total from Germany. Now a little bit about the legal framework and the European Union mission. There are currently nearly 4600 African Union military personnel in the conflict area, while there are 1600 French soldiers and officers in the framework of the French operation in Sangar. These units are not enough to stabilise the situation. On 28 January, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2134 authorising the European Union to launch a six-month mission in the Central African Republic, using all necessary measures to stabilise the security situation. In January, Catherine Samba-Panza, elected interim president of the Central African Republic, sent an official request for assistance to the European Union to intervene in the conflict. Estonia's military contribution can be based on the Riigikogu's decision to use the Defence Forces for the European Union mission in the Central African Republic, based on the UN resolution and yesterday's Council of the European Union decision on the European Union military operation in the Central African Republic. The objective of the European Union mission is to support the operations of the African Union and France for a period of six months in order to establish a secure security situation in the capital of Bangui and its immediate vicinity, in particular with a view to ensuring the availability of humanitarian aid. The ultimate objective is that, after the end of the mission, the mission led by the African Union (AU) should be able to operate in a stable security environment. The European Union mission will provide time for the African Union to set up a mission to achieve full capacity. Now, from the security situation and the preparation of the militia for a possible mission. The Central African Republic is an unstable and violent crisis area. In the case of such missions, emergency situations can never be ruled out. At the same time, we must remember that the role of Estonian Defence Forces in the Central African Republic will be different if they are accustomed to performing in Afghanistan over the last ten years. In Afghanistan, the task of the Estonian Defence Forces is to support the Afghan Central Authority and the security forces in the fight against the rebels. The task of the Estonian Defence Forces in the Central African Republic would be to conduct security and support operations in order to enable the peacekeeping operations of France and the African Union (AU) MISCA units to conduct other operations. This ties in with the stated European Union's main objective, which is to create conditions for humanitarian aid in the capital of Bangui and its immediate vicinity. It should be added that the population of the Central African Republic is not currently repressing foreign troops. There have been no direct attacks against the MISCA and French units without one clear exception. This exception is the Chadian units present within the framework of the MISCA, which have been associated with one of the parties to the conflict. This is the only Islamic state among the MISCA players, which is why these entities are considered to be biased. But, as has been said, the attitude of the local population is generally supportive of the foreign forces, as it is they who ensure that humanitarian aid is delivered safely and that they contribute to preventing violence. I would stress that the conflict is primarily between local hostiles, who generally avoid foreign units with incomparably better training and weapons. Estonian Defence Forces have excellent training as well as previous experience in serving in operational areas. Within the framework of preliminary planning, the deployment unit is now set up and pre-mission training is underway. It would be an infantry group of the Scouts Battalion and a small logistics unit supporting them, most of whom are professional Defence Forces who returned from the Afghanistan mission in November 2012, who would also take Pas's armored vehicles with them in the interests of the military. Despite the possible improvement or deterioration of the security regime, health risks, such as malaria and other regional-specific diseases, remain. These risks can be mitigated by vaccination as well as medical and hygiene prevention. This has been done in preparation for a possible mission, and appropriate measures have been taken. The unit is able to provide primary care to its fighters, with more complex assistance provided by the European Union mission. Due to the urgent need to react to the crisis, the Estonian unit is prepared to move to the Central African Republic as soon as the mission of the European Union creates legal and other conditions in the event of a positive decision by the Riigikogu. The Defence Forces are ready to send out a unit at the beginning of March. Estonia does not plan to participate in the long-term mission of the Central African Republic. The infantry team's mission would be one-off and would last four months from the start of the mission. The draft decision of the Riigikogu states that a maximum of 55 members of the Defence Forces may be sent to the mission. It would also leave room after four months and, if the EU mission were to continue, send up to five staff officers to the mission headquarters. The exact start and full implementation of the European Union mission will be revealed in the coming weeks. A little of the cost of the mission. According to preliminary estimates, the cost of the Estonian mission will be up to 2.7 million euros, which will be covered by this year's budget for the Ministry of Defence. Although the Central African Republic seems to us to be a distant and unattractive place, the links with us are obvious. Estonia is part of the western cultural and value space, so we are trying to contribute, as far as possible, to resolving crisis situations. We are part of the European Union and not only the consuming but also the contributing part. If we want a strong European Union, if we want its Member States to act together, it is absolutely necessary to contribute to this. If, like an ostrich, you have to ignore the areas of crisis by putting it under the sand, it is only a matter of time before the problems there are carried into our own courtyard, then at least in the form of a common European backyard, such as the flow of refugees and all this. Better to solve problems at source and quickly than to deal with their consequences for a long time. I will give two examples here. One is Afghanistan, whose long-term challenges have been addressed by the international community with a military mission lasting more than ten years. Another positive example is Mali, where, at an early stage with Estonia's participation, the international community has managed to prevent the escalation of the crisis. Finally, the most important thing. We must value human rights and respond to their violation, as well as to the early signs of danger referring to it. At the beginning of January 1994, Canadian General Roméo Dalliere, who led the UN forces in Rwanda, sent a fax to the United Nations headquarters, where he clearly warned against the imminent outbreak of genocide. They couldn't hear him. Almost a million civilians died in the genocide that began in April of the same year. I ask the Riigikogu to discuss this mission and support the decision made by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U13	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U14	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You said our task is to ensure that humanitarian aid arrives. I ask you to be more specific. What is the task of our active troops in Central Africa, where they operate and what are their powers, or what are their rights to act and react on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U15	Firstly, our unit and the entire contingent of the European Union will be operating in the capital of Bangui and its immediate vicinity. Secondly, as far as the mandate is concerned, the Rules of Engagement is a universal set of rules concerning the powers of the Defence Forces in combat situations, and they are a secret. Why are they state secrets? It's a state secret to ensure the security of the militia. If the opponent knows what the rights of the Defence Forces are to use the weapon or act in conflict at all, it is a potential risk and represents a real threat to our defence forces. Therefore, I cannot answer this specific question. As far as the task of the Defence Forces is concerned, indeed, the whole mission is aimed at ensuring that humanitarian aid is delivered. In order for humanitarian aid to be delivered and used, it is necessary that state power functions and governs public order. Ensuring public security is the task of this mission. Our group's task will be specifically set up within the framework of the European Union mission. The current negotiations with representatives of the so-called framework state, France, have proposed the security of patrols in certain places as possible functions, and this is a security role, as well as possible response obligations. Exactly what they are, it depends on the establishment and organisation of a specific task for the mission. The planners will set up the tasks based on military purpose in the implementation of the mission, and our militia team will begin to carry them out in accordance with their competences, training and equipment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U16	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I do not deny at all that the conflict needs regulation and that, in order to avoid any expansion, it is necessary to contribute to it. Then why definitely militaryly? Most European countries, including large countries such as Germany, have announced that they will not send their units there. Why is Estonia always like a little evil mops? Where it's possible to start a war, the soldiers will be there immediately! In your presentation you also said that Estonia was the first to announce its arrival. Why do we always have to send soldiers? There are many other ways to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U18	I explained in my report the motives on which we have made our decisions. The central motive is based, not on evil, but, on the contrary, on the rejection of evil, on the desire to prevent human suffering. These human sufferings are measurable in real life. There is no doubt that the French intervention, which I do not want to describe in any way with negative epithetes, has helped to save people's lives. This is a situation where it is not effective to provide humanitarian aid separately from security assistance. Well, it's not even conceivable. Of course, we also refer to humanitarian aid in accordance with the possibilities of the Estonian state. I referred above to the aid given last year and the aid planned for the street. However, there is now a situation where security assistance must also be provided. Our country's policy is based on the view that, in a situation where action is needed and where allies, particularly our good partner, France, need help, the European Union community must not stand by. I do not share at all the philosophy that a small country cannot be a large country. This is a fundamental question of whether, as a small country of the European Union, we can, in our opinion, or dare to make political choices and shape public opinion in friendly countries as well. With this decision, we have done so. I don't think we've done anything wrong. It is in our interest for the European Union to act together, to act vigorously in a real situation and not to limit itself to rhetoric. The implementation of this European Union mission has been unprecedented. If we look at this timetable, we will see that at the end of December, just before Christmas, the Council discussed this issue. Our Prime Minister also expressed his support for a possible European Union mission. Now, at the beginning of February, we have already reached a direct implementation phase. This is certainly a sign that the European Union's security, foreign and defence policy dimension is developing, and this has been one of the main objectives of European Union policy. Humanistic considerations are certainly central to the provision of security assistance. In addition, partnerships play a role. It is interested that the European Union will be able to act quickly and decisively in crisis situations both within its own territory and elsewhere. This is the reasoning that led the government to initiate this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U19	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U20	Mr. Secretary of Defense! My question, too, concerns the powers of our defence forces to intervene. A few weeks ago, information from the Ministry of Defence came into the press that these powers are universal and apply to all the forces of the European Union. About the same time, however, the BBC reported that their journalists went to Bangui Airport and saw a defence team at the airport, Frenchmen who did not intervene when local machetes attacked secondary believers. On another occasion, the French military blew up a warning shot, but they didn't intervene either. Can you confirm that the Estonian Defence Forces will not get involved in this mission in a situation where they see human life as a threat, see people killed, but cannot intervene because they do not have the authority to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U21	I am not going to comment here on specific circumstances or on specific articles. It is clear that the powers of the armed forces, as well as the actions of people at all, are subject to certain universal principles. Firstly, the principle of self-defence and, secondly, the guarantee of public order and security, which is the purpose of this mission in the wider sense. The presence and tasks assigned to the mission will actually support public order and security. This is the understanding of the current leaders of the Central African Republic and this is also the understanding of the international community. In specific cases, how the French military acted, whether or not they reacted within the limits of their mandate, I cannot comment without knowing the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U22	Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U23	Thank you. Dear Minister, Please tell me how many European Union countries, and specifically what other countries have announced that they are participating in a military mission in the Central African Republic with at least an infantry team.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U24	I listed the countries that have contributed in one way or another. In addition to those whom I mentioned in my speech, there are a number of countries that have decided to contribute, but have not wished to make it public. However, some countries are still considering this and have not made a final decision. I have no authority to read out specific countries that contribute at least to the infantry team. What I can say is that France, of course, is a framework country with a significant unit. In addition to those already mentioned, those countries that are considering contributing are Austria, Belgium, Spain, Italy, Greece, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Poland, Sweden, Slovenia and Finland. In addition, contributions from third countries, i.e. non-EU partner countries, have also been considered. For example, Canada, Norway, Turkey and Georgia are discussing this. I believe that these countries will make their decisions in the near future. We have agreed in the Committee on National Defence that as soon as they have formally formulated their position, we will also forward this information to the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U25	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of Defence! There is no doubt that we must support and help, whether with money or otherwise. But please tell me if this is not a national defence secret or any other secret that cannot be disclosed, what is the Estonian soldier's code of conduct? If a child soldier threatening to kill him is killed or raped in front of him, what must he do? A lot of mothers are worried about their sons. It is clear that grown men decide to go there themselves, but these questions are in the air in society, and if there are no clear answers to them, it will be very difficult for us to make that decision too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U27	The answers here can be clear. As regards the defence of the troops, or the defence of the units on the mission, before we presented our proposal to the Riigikogu, one of the main factors in shaping the decision was precisely the analysis of the defence. This was the reason why our security experts visited the Central African Republic and also in France the aim was to get an overview of the progress of the French mission so far. We've conducted a pretty thorough security analysis of the militia involved. This concerned both equipment and preparations for the organisation of military forces. Once again, self-defence is a universal principle, regardless of the specific rules of battle. This applies in all countries and is applied in a proportionate manner, as in other areas of life, as a general legal principle. If there is violence in the course of specific tasks in the course of conflicts, our defence forces will act in accordance with the rules applicable to such cases. You asked what our militia would do if there was an act of violence. Unfortunately, I cannot comment on this, I stress once again, in the interests of the security of our Defence Forces. If you ask how Afghanistan or any other foreign mission will react, if there is an attack or suspicion of an attack or a direct conflict, then the answer is that each mission has its own battle rules and is subject to action. Of course, the central objective is to protect the troops, so that the threats are grounded, as far as they can be mitigated in a particular situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U28	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Planning national defence and working with allies requires a great deal of work and thought development. If a future mission in the Central African Republic was possible under consideration, then certainly a proper preparatory work was carried out to know and take into account the political and economic situation there, as well as military capabilities. On the basis of this work, decisions have also been taken. In the end, it is expected that Estonia will be among the first three to participate in this European Union mission. But besides military contributions, there's a humanitarian side. Was this issue also discussed very seriously so that perhaps it would contribute more to humanitarian aid? The government there is not working, the distribution of humanitarian aid is problematic and there are certainly many other problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U30	These are not opposing stakes, and the Government certainly wants to do both. The Estonian state has already supported humanitarian aid, and the government believes that at the earliest possible stage of this crisis it is also reasonable to provide security assistance to prevent genocide and even humanitarian disaster. We have these opportunities and we have defined the time frame for providing this assistance. It's one infantry team in four months. This is our real contribution, not just a declarative or symbolic contribution. Whether Estonia will be at the top three in the forces of the European Union, we cannot say as of now. I am sure that a number of countries that are very close to us are also considering sending more or less of the same size of real-world entities on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U31	Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U32	Thank you. Dear Minister, There is no doubt that the situation in the Central African Republic is difficult, and we may not even know how difficult it really is there. I had a question that could be concluded from this that on 7 February the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court opened an investigation into genocide in the Central African Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U33	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U34	This demonstrates that the Central African Republic is an extremely unstable country in which the ability of the state to control its territory and to guarantee security is clearly inadequate. This investigation is a sign that genocide-like attacks, killing of people and other forms of violence that are regarded as genocide in international law have taken place. As I emphasised, this country is currently on the verge of mass genocide. There is always a question of whether this could be the case or not, but today the overall understanding of the entire international community is that intervention is necessary at the request of the current government of the Central African Republic. It's necessary to avoid genocide. I referred here to the case of Rwanda 20 years ago. What happened there will remain on the conscience of mankind. Intervention at an earlier stage would have prevented the deaths of not hundreds or thousands of people, but of millions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U35	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. With this mission, it is the feeling that we owe France a great deal of money. But here's the question. Please specify how many soldiers there are in France and how many troops in that country will participate in this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U36	There are a lot of soldiers in France. I know they have 1,600 French military personnel participating in their operation in Sangari, Central African Republic. France, of course, has a special connection with the African continent for historical reasons, but France has at all shown itself to be a country ready to intervene quickly when the security situation demands it. We had good experience working with France in Mali. For Estonian Defence Forces, the upcoming service on the African continent would therefore not be a precedent. From the spring of last year, our Defence Forces will be participating in the European Union Training Mission, as well as in the United Nations mission in Mali, where the stabilisation of the security situation was also preceded by the French mission as an intervention and then implemented by the European Union Training Mission. I would like to highlight France's contribution separately. When it comes to partnerships, France was also the biggest contributor to the NATO exercise Steadfast Jazz last autumn: 1,200 troops took part. The importance of the study for the security of the Estonian state cannot be overestimated, as its scenario included the implementation of collective defence in the event of a military attack against the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U37	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You talked a lot about solidarity with Western European countries, although the Central African Republic is not in Western Europe. But I ask that Estonia's defence costs account for 2% of GDP, and we are very good in the world, there are few countries that can meet this goal. Are the defence costs of the French State equal to 0.8% or 1% of GDP? Would you be more specific about what the percentage is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U39	The right thing is that four NATO Member States can meet this 2% target, including Estonia. It is also true that the share of the European Union's countries in the production of security, i.e. contributing to military defence in the NATO bloc, has been steadily decreasing compared to the share of the United States over the last decade. This is a problem for us, but it is not a reason for us to overlook the need to contribute to our own defence or to collective defence. This is a very serious problem for us, to which attention must be drawn, and this relationship must be balanced by different means, whether with a greater possible presence of the United States in our region or with the development of allied relations between the main contributors and the Republic of Estonia. So I certainly do not intend, as an excuse, to refer to the fact that the European Union's major countries, too, do not contribute enough to national defence from NATO's point of view. This fact is a major problem for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U40	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of Defence! I hear the infantry team on our mission has already been vaccinated. Who and on what grounds ordered vaccination? The Riigikogu's approval of this mission does not yet exist. The impression remains that things have been decided in advance and that the Riigikogu will have the role of rubber stamp again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U42	The task of the Defence Forces is to act and also to provide the military advice they have given on this mission. We had to present our offer, which our militias are capable of doing on a mission. When I had a conversation with the French Minister of Defence, I asked the commander of their armed forces to contact our Commander of the Defence Forces to clarify these possibilities. On the one hand, what France considers our contribution to be, and on the other, what opportunities we have at all. It provided the basis for further work on the plan. If the Estonian side had not prepared at all, we would not be able to decide to send this unit here in the Riigikogu. Sending people to an unprepared international mission would be irresponsible for both the government and any other level of decision-making. The Defence Forces have indeed made the necessary preparations, including vaccination, and training. If the Riigikogu decides not to send this mission, it will not do so. The Defence Forces continue to serve in other assignments. The Defence Forces themselves will not, of course, make this decision, nor will the Government; this decision can be made by the Riigikogu. But in the Riigikogu we need to know clearly what the real capacity of our active force group is to make the right decision. Vaccination is not a minor activity. As the analysis of threats from the region showed, health risks are one of the most likely practical problems to be faced there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U43	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I will continue to some extent with my colleague's question. You've been talking about having experience from Afghanistan, from Iraq as well. There have been only a few people in Mali, and their experience will certainly not be passed directly on to 55 people. Training is therefore necessary. That's my question. That training, which is likely to be different from what has been done so far, is certainly expensive. You're talking about training and vaccination, it's in or out of that EUR 2.7 million. But does this 2.7 million already exist in your budget, planned before the Riigikogu's decision, or do you intend to take it from somewhere else at the expense of any other activities that the Defence Forces are intended for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U45	In the Defence Forces budget, of course, this has not been planned as a separate mission in 2014. Firstly, there is no legal basis for this and, secondly, it was not known when the draft state budget was submitted to Parliament. What I can confirm is that these sums come from the general operating costs of the Ministry of Defence's administration. Does this jeopardise the performance of any tasks approved in the National Defence Development Plan? No, there's no danger. In May 2014, our mission to Afghanistan will end at company level and the unit will return to Estonia. Considering the size of the company, our mission burden will actually ease.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U46	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. An excellent African expert like Great Britain is participating in a mission with transport planes and not with military personnel. Germany also participates in logistics and Finland, an old mission visitor, with staff officers. It has been said that Estonia participates as far as possible. Actually, we're sending 10% of the additional vitality to that mission. Isn't that a disproportionate approach? Sounds like a lot to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U48	Thank you. I am not going to speculate on the figures now, nor do I share the claim that Finland is just contributing to the staff officers. In the near future, it will be clear which countries will contribute. If we ask whether Estonia's contribution per capita, if we compare even the European population or gross domestic product, is greater than the notional average, then the answer is undoubtedly in the affirmative. This is our political choice. If we want to influence things, we want to give a clear signal that we are ready to contribute together with our partners, then it makes sense to do so. Our wish is more visible if our contribution is real. I will certainly not join those who claim that an infantry team is not really capable of this mission. Yes, it does! The Estonian group is an important part of the mission and its use is certainly also important from the perspective of military planning. We are faced with a choice that is very simple in content: whether we want to be a country that, in a crisis situation, in a situation where allies, our partners need help, are prepared to contribute. I am absolutely sure that, in addition to resolving this humanitarian crisis, it will also give us political credibility and good partnerships, including with France. Of course, this mission serves the national defence, security policy and foreign policy interests of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U49	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, In your introduction, you justified the participation of Estonia in the mission by the fact that we want a stronger European Union. However, it has been said in this Chamber that the great powers do not contribute much to it. We are one of the few, and this price may be quite expensive for us. Then why aren't the great powers sending their vitals there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U51	First of all, I will say once again that I am not going to develop ideas on how much and what countries will contribute. However, I know that since 6 December, one of the great powers of the European Union, France, is taking part in the resolution of the crisis. So it's not right to say that the great powers are watching by themselves. When it comes to whether it is in our interest to have a strong European Union, whether we want to see a more decisive response from the whole Union in the case of crises that occur either in the border regions of the European Union or outside the European Union, yes, that is our vital security interest. Let me make this clear here. The European Union's mechanism and overall political culture are such that the weight of national political culture and word depends on how much they are willing to contribute, whether they are prepared to offer constructive solutions to issues that do not concern themselves directly at the doorstep. It is in our interest that the influence and proportion of the Estonian state be greater. I believe that the rapid implementation of this mission has also played a role in Estonia's support in the European Council last December and publicly expressed its willingness to consider contributing to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U52	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U53	Honourable Vice President! Dear waitress, As a physician, I have certain ethical questions for myself and others before I can press a button here. You brought out a series of positive moments, but there's always some self-righteousness. Would you also point out the negative side that you revealed when you discussed sending our military contingent to the Central African Republic in the Ministry of Defense? What were the negative moments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U54	There is no point in denying that Africa is a remote area for us, both spatially and culturally. This has raised certain questions in the press and in Estonian society as a whole. And African experts in Estonia are not, let's say, politely so. Uncertainty due to ignorance always gives rise to question marks and doubts, which is understandable. This is how getting everything up to date has been the main work of our intelligence experts and military experts in the last month-and-a-half. I've talked to the intelligence officers myself. There are two kinds of conclusions. On the one hand, those concerning real danger. When we look at the picture of what's going on there, it's sometimes startling, you can see violence. Our security experts flew in on a regular plane, took a taxi, and lived in a regular hotel. Civil life in Bangui, the capital of the Central African Republic, is fully operational. As far as possible risks arising from human activities to our defence forces are concerned, their likelihood has decreased compared to the time when this analysis started. However, the health risks arising from the climate are, of course, serious. The conditions there are much tougher than in Afghanistan. The heat and climate in Africa, the diseases in that region, must be taken seriously. It was a separate theme that we analysed with the French military, i.e. what diseases have affected their men, what safeguards they have taken and how they value them. The measures that can be taken will certainly be used to protect our mission team. But yes, it is precisely because of the climate that this is a physically very difficult task of service. It has therefore been decided that although the normal rotation period for the mission in Estonia is six months, also for Afghanistan, the duration of this mission is four months. We made this decision in view of both our overall capabilities and the physical endurance of the members of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U55	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U56	Thank you very much. I have a simple question for the Secretary of Defense, but from the point of view of our debate, it is a matter of principle. Could you not answer yes to the following question: is the military mission of the European Union an ally for Estonia or rather a declaration of goodwill, which in future does not mean much to our security risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U57	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U58	How do you answer that? I can answer the first part of the question yes, the second part no. You asked for an answer in yes or no form.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your report, you said that, on preliminary estimates, this whole mission could cost EUR 2.7 million. However, there was a clear impression that this amount might not be definitive. What else can we expect, and how much can this cost be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U60	That might turn out to be less. This EUR 2,7 million is the maximum, the theoretical amount of all costs. Much of it, nearly a third of it is transport to the other side of the world, including the transport of armored vehicles. It is currently being discussed who will contribute to this mission with strategic transport capacity, i.e. offering their own transport aircraft. If it turns out that we can use allies' planes, the cost of the mission could be greatly reduced. We can rely on an ally saying that one part of his contribution is that he also provides transport to Estonia. We have negotiated this issue with several countries, but there are no final decisions yet. A lot of things are still open. Above all, it depends, of course, on whether the Riigikogu authorises the mission until now, the defence forces can negotiate conditionally. And when the Riigikogu gives permission, much depends on when it is appropriate to send our group there in terms of planning and whether, at that time, a country can offer us air transport. Overall, 2.7 million according to our current understanding is the ceiling, and we hope that this amount will decrease if we reach transport agreements with our partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U61	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! My question concerns the period that began in December when the Prime Minister attended the European Council and lasts until today. You rightly said that the mandate of the Riigikogu is needed to use our defence forces outside the Republic of Estonia. How can we assess this process from this point of view? The Minister of Defence, together with the Commander of the Defence Forces, will hold a press conference on 16 January, where he will talk about Estonia sending 55 active troops to Africa for four months. At the same time, the Minister of Defence has not yet come before the Riigikogu. Do you think it is normal in a parliamentary state if, before making such a decision on matters of principle, the Riigikogu is not consulted, but the public is informed that we are going somewhere soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U63	I think there is one great value in a small country, but there is transparency in every society as well. There were actually two alternatives for us. There was one possibility until the final decision was taken by the government and the draft was submitted to Parliament, not to talk about this plan at all. In that case, the whole discussion would have come out of the void as a matter of self. We chose another way. The Estonian public has been able to contribute to all aspects of the decision-making process in the public debate. I think that this is essential for the normal functioning of society. Of course, we cannot speak openly about the technical aspects and nuances of security. But, of course, the principle behind everything is that a representative of the people decides to use armed force outside the territory of the country. There can't be any double-thinking around here. At the same time, it is clear that the government has an obligation to explain its views. It is not possible for any government to circumvent this obligation. And the more important the decision is, the more necessary it is to explain our views. I have therefore considered it useful to explain what the substance of this proposal is. The thing that can be explained to the public can be a proposal, not a decision, because a decision can only be taken by Parliament's plenary. In December, France made this request. The initial request was to support the French mission because the European Union mission had not been decided. This information was communicated to our public before the formal decision was submitted to the Riigikogu plenary. The Defence Forces conducted a briefing and briefed the National Defence Commission. I also said this in the Committee on National Defence, that so far there has been good coherence in matters of national defence, even though, as the Ministry of Defence has seen, there is room for improvement in order to provide direct information to all political forces, without distinction, who is in power and who is in opposition. In order to do this better, I am certainly prepared to further develop the administration so that the decision-makers have all the information they need to make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U64	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U65	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Genocide, of course, needs to be prevented, but a lot happens on peace missions. There must be a lot of people in front of the war helicopter shooting civilians journalists in Iraq. I've got some pictures here. These are children killed in Kandahar, a drug - drinking American soldier killed 16 people one day, including nine children. This is where the soldiers pee on the enemies they killed. Here are the jewelry made of the nails and teeth of the people who were killed. Are you sure that the experience that our Defence Forces have there is the experience they need? Have you examined this side of the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U66	These references that you have brought are completely irrelevant and completely inappropriate in the human sense. I unequivocally reject this direction of thought development. The Estonian Defence Forces are men and women who are at the service of the Republic of Estonia and defend the Republic of Estonia outside Estonia and on Estonian soil. No arbitrary thought development that does not exist in these specific cases should be associated with these missions. The principle of compliance with the law is central to international missions. Military personnel are also subject to the law and legal order on missions. If, in specific cases, there have been offences, of course, they will be dealt with and the parties concerned will be punished. One of the issues we addressed in the development of a veteran policy is post-mission stress. While on a mission, man is burdened with immense burdens, and this internal tension, stress, can be felt by many precisely for a longer period of time after the mission. We discussed it with the psychologists when we set up a veteran policy. The practical conclusion is that the veterans who have returned from the mission must be given help. We've already had over 2,000 men and women on missions. We must certainly take these matters into account. Counselling before, during and after the mission, psychological assistance, including for families, is very important. That is what the Defence Forces are doing in the context of the veteran policy, and I consider it extremely important. However, any crime committed by one person in any human community does not call into question the humane and international purpose of international missions. I strongly reject that statement. I'm sure there was a person involved in the war on freedom who committed a criminal offence at the time. However, this does not call into question the purpose and the cause of the war on freedom and the general effort of those who contributed to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U67	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U68	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! We are in a situation where the former mother country of France has gone to the aid of the Central African Republic and is looking very hard for allies in the form of individual European Union countries. At the same time, the European Union has already been ready since 2007 for a battle group designed for such rapid response. What is the reason why the European Union cannot use this battle group that it formed seven years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U69	This requires the readiness of the countries contributing to the battle group, and requires the readiness of all the countries of the European Union to take such a decision. So far, such a decision has not been taken during the battle group's existence. Estonia is a country that supports the practical use of the Battle Group. It is not practical to keep any theoretical capacity in a drawer. Unfortunately, a consensual decision has not been reached. There is, in fact, a similar situation with the NATO Rapid Response Team. Estonia believes that they could also be used more flexibly to resolve civil crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U70	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U71	Thank you, Minister. This draft decision is short and prepared by the Government of the Republic. The National Defence Committee made some corrections and removed the cull, which means that the draft decision came to this Chamber in a changed form. The draft decision is based on § 128 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Since I'm not a member of the National Defence Commission, I looked at this section. It says: 'The Riigikogu declares, on the proposal of the President of the Republic, martial law, mobilization and demobilisation and decides on the use of the defence force in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state. ' When I speak Estonian, I read here that the President of the Republic must also play a certain role here. The President of the Republic must make a proposal. Have you asked for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or is this not a violation of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U72	Thank you, Inara! At first, I thought you'd ask if we'd asked the president for permission. But the National Defence Council also discussed this Central African Republic mission and received an overview of it. As far as the interpretation of this paragraph is concerned, the question is indeed whether the word 'and' in it also means that the first part of the sentence relates to the part after 'and'. I reply that, in addition to the linguistic interpretation of the Constitution, there is also the possibility of interpreting it teleologically, or purposefully. During the 20 years following the implementation of the 1992 Constitution, the following part of the word 'and' has been interpreted in such a way that it does not assume the President's proposal. I admit that it could be discussed purely linguistically, but so far the Estonian state has applied § 128 (1) of the Constitution in one way for 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U73	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U74	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. From what I hear, Scouts battalion soldiers are anxious to go on a mission because they don't feed the family with a $657 salary. What is the salary of the Estonian soldier on the foreign mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U75	The salary of an Estonian soldier on a foreign mission is his post salary and, in addition, his mission fee. This certainly is not EUR 650. The salary is both higher and the mission fee is much higher. There is certainly no point in denying that for professional military personnel, going on missions is a challenge in itself in terms of gaining professional experience, but, of course, one motivator is also a higher income for active troops. There's no denying that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U76	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U77	Thank you, honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. If we look at EUFOR's mandate, which has been given by the Council of the European Union, we can see that its task is to ensure the security of the capital and its airport. Despite this unanimous decision, if you believe in the press, Britain, Germany and Italy have said no today. They don't send their men to Africa because they think the mission is too risky. Have you received any new information within the last 24 hours? You have just said here that Italy has decided like Estonia. I would ask you to clarify the Italian participation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U78	No Member State of the European Union shall take a negative position in relation to this mission. The European Union has decided by consensus to set up these missions. A separate question is which Member States are prepared to contribute with what capacity. In my speech, I read out certain countries, and indeed Italy is not among those who have publicly announced what they intend to do. Estonia has announced its proposal to Parliament when using precise formulation. As I said, some countries are considering what to do, some have decided to contribute with some capacity, but have not disclosed it. I read the list of these countries, and it includes Italy. But I repeat: as soon as we have the information that a country has officially declared its contribution, we will immediately forward it to the National Defence Commission, as agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U79	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U80	Thank you very much. I, too, will continue on these so-called contributing countries. I listened very carefully to the countries you read out. I did not hear a country like Portugal that knew Africa very well among them. Portugal could put out 400-500 men and go to Africa. Why don't they do it? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U81	I am not going to comment here on how many men they could send to Africa, how much their ability is, specifically now, what their political decision will be and how they will shape it. I certainly agree with you that Portugal already has the capacity to analyse the African continent due to its position and past. And in relation to the possible additional refugee avalanche and the threat of international crime, it is the Mediterranean countries belonging to the European Union that are at the forefront.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U82	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U83	Thank you. I will return to my first question and simply draw attention to the cooperation between the government and the Riigikogu on this issue in a reply. I certainly don't blame you for calling a press conference too soon. I blame you for talking to the Riigikogu too late. Those political groups who do not have a representative in the National Defence Council read about it in this newspaper, and I do not think it is normal in a parliamentary state. My question concerns these contributors. I understand very well why you do not want to give a clear answer to the questions of a very large number of colleagues about who are, however, these contributing countries. I think it is very important for the Riigikogu to know, before deciding, who has said today that they are contributing to this operation with the active troops, not with transport planes, not with scouts, not with staff officers, but specifically with active troops who will actually operate in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U84	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U85	The Republic of Finland has also announced that it intends to contribute to the mission with military personnel. The Republic of Estonia has notified this, Lithuania has notified logistical support. But once again, the list of countries that are betting or considering betting is much longer. I read the list. And as soon as any country has provided official information, we can also report it to the Riigikogu. I hope this will happen in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U86	Honourable Vice President! Dear waitress, The Republic of Estonia is a small and relatively poor country within the European Union. Was there an internal struggle in you, as Minister of Defence, and in the direction of a great political power? For the Defence Forces, it is still a very large amount of money that could be used to develop the system at home. Perhaps it could be spent for the benefit of our conscripts, building up barracks in the country to increase the military potential?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U87	I'm not contrasting these two things. We protect Estonia by using our independent defence capabilities, which is central to our defence philosophy. We will develop it so that, indeed, by the end of this year, all conscripts will have to have normal living conditions. That objective is not undermined in any way by this decision. However, the central element of deterrence that must protect Estonia is the implementation of collective protection in the event of a possible military crisis. The functioning of collective defence and the international capacity of both the European Union and NATO to provide security assistance is very important and contributing to it is crucial for Estonia's protection. The specific aim of spending this EUR 2.7 million is, as I said, to prevent genocide, to save lives. But apart from having humane goals in mind, it can also be seen as an investment in our national defence. This is also a practical expense from the point of view of Estonian national defence. This money isn't going anywhere, it's going to be our military salaries, our unit's functioning, the militia's getting training there, they're getting experience there. If, after a while, we need to talk about the next mission on African territory, it is really only a hypothesis, but it can also take place in the future, it is good if we have such experience. This decision certainly does not come to our disadvantage and spending this money is not a pointless expense from the point of view of military practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U88	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Unfortunately, you didn't answer my first question. You must have heard some other question somewhere inside, and you started answering it, and you put in my mouth statements that I didn't say. As a philologist, I have to tell you that when we talk, we use lexic units, words, and they have meaning. If we say a sentence, it has a particular idea. Even the Minister of Defence, even you, could understand the idea that I put into my question, all the more so because we speak in Estonian. And the point is this: are you not afraid that serving under these conditions on these missions will always be a violation of the law, not of our soldiers, but of the soldiers of other armies that will affect our defence forces and cause us problems in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U90	The right thing is that words sometimes only illustrate or simply complement symbols. You've shown some helicopter pictures, you claim that children were shot and placed in a context on which our decision to participate in an international mission should depend or not. My response was unambiguous: I did not understand the context or the parallel you wanted to draw. The missions that will take place will take place for a clear purpose, and all countries, all entities, will be subject to the legal framework in which they operate. Unfortunately, in a war situation, as in life, these rules may be broken. Crimes, including war crimes, may be committed. These concrete actions must be dealt with and punished. You claimed that these actions are being carried out constantly, et cetera. I certainly do not agree with this statement. When it comes to Afghanistan, the ISAF mission, the objectives are still legitimate. They are not aimed at the constant execution of any crimes, as you pointed out. In such situations, as well as in missions providing humanitarian or security assistance, will there be stress in crisis situations, which could also create internal pressure on people's health in the future? I admit that there is such a threat, and this must be taken into account in supporting the armed forces and veterans. The Defence Forces are working on it. Our defence forces certainly need and deserve this kind of support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U91	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U92	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister! The objective of the mission is to ensure peace in the country and to bring the situation under control. You said that Estonia did not plan to participate in the peace-building mission in the long term. The deadline is now August 31st. Can you confirm that you will not come back to Parliament before 31 August to extend the mission? And what gives you reason to believe that by August 31, four months from now, peace will be guaranteed and the situation will be under control? Is that just how we're going to get along at first, or do we still have long-term plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U93	First of all, if you take a draft decision on the mission, you'll see that August 31 is the rear date. The government's proposal and intention, as stated in the Government's explanatory memorandum, is to contribute to a four-month rotation period and not to extend it. When, in particular, this European Union mission will be fully implemented, it will not be set on a date. It's all about the planning phase, the decision of the chiefs of mission. Our readiness is, as I said, from the beginning of March. It may also shift, and not depending on us, but depending on how it is considered appropriate to send units to the location of the mission. As I said, we have not decided on the extension, but this need may arise, so we are asking Parliament for approval not only to send this unit on a mission, but also later for the use of up to five active troops there. We are talking about staff officers who could, if necessary, continue to participate in the mission. We don't have any arrangements for that right now. The mandate of the European Union mission is set at six months, but may be extended. The question is whether we are already planning to extend the task force's four-month mission. No, we're not going to. The reason for this is, first, our ability. The Defence Forces can provide just the capacity that we will be part of the team within four months. Period. Whether we consider it appropriate to continue with one or two officers of staff after that depends on whether this need is, what the specific situation is. Now the question is whether Estonia will be able to produce security in four months in such a way that the problems in the Central African Republic have been resolved. Definitely not. We can make our contribution, and I think that this contribution is real, not just declarative. And this contribution is greater than our per capita capacity in the European Union could be expected. I think we will act responsibly as a "security-producing country" when we make this contribution. Can we solve all the questions? We will be able to resolve the issues to the extent that it is due to the real ability we have to put out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U94	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense! I ask for a slightly more detailed comment on the position of one of the largest French journals that sending Estonian soldiers to the Central African Republic is more of a political, symbolic decision and, in fact, it does not add anything to alleviate the situation at the heart of the crisis. And why aren't such great powers as Great Britain and Germany sending their troops there anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U96	First of all, the claims made in the press. I read that French paper too. And the Eesti Päevaleht has published an interview with an African expert, a researcher from the Norwegian Institute for Foreign Policy, to whom our journalist asked whether we can turn this European Union mission into a crisis. The Norwegian scientist states that the turnaround will, of course, not be achieved with such military force, but we will be able to ensure in the near future that many people will not be killed. That's good, too. Secondly, he stresses that an international presence could create a protected space for political debate on how to get out of the situation. This presence can also expose politicians who manipulate violence. This scientist says that if you just keep looking at the situation, it could lead to a large-scale internal conflict that could flow across the borders of the country. So someone in the international community has to be there. Now the question is why some countries are willing to contribute with the infantry, some supposedly with staff officers, some with strategic transport. This depends on national decisions. I stress that no European Union country has opposed this mission, the mission has been approved with one voice. The Germany you referred to is considering betting. True, I don't have any information that he's considering betting with units, but to a certain extent he's considering betting. Great Britain is ready to provide logistical support. Why does a particular country make the choice it makes? Everything depends on the capabilities and political decisions that are made in one country or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U97	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, The mission's budget, according to you, is EUR 2.7 million. Listening to your answer to Priit Tobal's question, it turned out that there might be a need to continue in the air. Have you planned an extra budget for this mission? If you are, how big could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U99	No, we haven't planned any extra budget. The Defence Forces were asked to draw up a "maximum estimate" of how much money we would have to spend in putting out such a great capacity in such a time. As I said, if we succeed in reaching agreements, and if some countries contribute such a contribution by means of transport, there is no need to detract from it, it is not a minor matter, it means that we actually have a cost reduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U100	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In a crisis situation, mutual understanding is very important, both in the relations between French and Estonian military personnel and in the relations between Estonian military and local residents. What are our soldiers prepared to operate in a French environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U102	This issue has received a clear response in the preparation of the mission. After all, our unit will be able to work with both French military personnel on a bilateral basis and the mission will not be bilateral; it is a mission to be launched under the auspices of the European Union with military personnel from other countries. According to our Defence Forces, a language problem or a communication problem at all is not an obstacle or even a security risk to the successful functioning of the mission. A clear solution has been found.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U103	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U104	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! Before I go to the question, I express my frustration. Estonia's contribution to this mission was also read in the newspaper. This could indeed have been discussed more with the MPs before, both in the National Defence Committee and in other debates. But here's my question. It is known that we are really going on this mission as part of EUFOR RCA, the European Union military operation. Has recent information from the Council of the European Union been available on any more precise decisions that you already know and which we could also know here? Has the Council of the European Union just taken any decisions on this operation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U105	Yesterday, the Council of the European Union adopted a decision to launch a full European Union military mission in the Central African Republic, or EUFOR RCA. Such a mission shall be launched in stages. At first there is an initiative, then there is an initial proposal and then a full approval, which has now taken place. We can say that this mission exists as a legal entity. This will be followed by a concentration of forces, for which countries will have to make their proposals, with what capacity they will contribute. The establishment of the mission plan and, as a next step, the practical plan for the initial implementation of the mission will follow. And then there's the full launch of the mission. These last decisions are made by the mission's leadership, so already by the military, they are no longer political decisions. As far as Parliament's involvement is concerned, I am far from saying that the debate has been sufficient. If Members think that information could have been better, then there is a problem. I fully accept this and hope that it will be better and impeccablely organised in the future. All I can say in self-defense is that we acted in good faith. The fact is, before the government made a formal decision, a briefing took place in the National Defence Committee. After that, the government sent its official proposal to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U106	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U107	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This morning I read about teachers wanting to strike. This mission will take 27 million from us. I mean, you're not only the Secretary of Defense, you're also the chairman of a big party. Yesterday, my colleague and I asked the Minister for Education how these teachers' wage increases promises were met. This is the question for you now: what message do you have for teachers today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U108	I have good news for you: the mission will cost 2.7 million, not 27 million. However, I would like to refrain from saying here that the increase in the minimum wage for teachers, which the Minister of Education has provided for this year's budget, will be fully guaranteed. That's positive news. The subtext of your question is the confrontation of different costs. I'm asking you not to go along with this, it's a mechanical confrontation of one cost or another. Unfortunately, we see that many countries in the European Union have done this, and the result has been that, in general, the security of these countries, defence, has been lost. We must be prepared to contribute to national defence, and Estonia has done so extremely effectively. This testifies to the consensus that has largely ruled both in Estonian society and in parliament. I do have a request that we continue in this spirit of consensus. On individual issues, of course, there can be debate, there can be differing views, it is normal in every way, but the general willingness to contribute to national defence could be maintained. I would also like to inform you that my colleague, the Finnish Minister for Defence, has convened a working group composed of representatives of all parliamentary parties in view of the long-term objective of national defence. This working group will be provided with information on national defence issues and will also be asked to reflect on the national defence programmes of specific political parties. Hypothetically, any member of this working group can become the Minister of Defence and the spirit of general consensus is being sought to preserve. We, too, in the Committee on National Defence, could seek such consensus when discussing long-term defence targets. But things are fine in the field of education. The key issues, including teachers' expectations, will certainly be addressed by the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U109	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Defence! About two weeks ago, it was claimed in the press that Estonian soldiers lack French skills and if anyone has it, they have learned it themselves. When you responded to Mr Kalev Eagle, you said that communication in the French environment is not a problem. Are on-site translations used, or are interpreters part of our mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U111	I didn't really say this mission was going to be in French. Defence forces can also use English as a working language. This is not an obstacle at all. I can say with absolute certainty that the French military does not speak Estonian, and among the Estonian Defence Forces, French is much less known than English. Above all, the organisation of the mission shall be in English.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U112	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U113	Thank you. Dear Minister, We have heard here today that there is a serious and bitter preparations for the mission. Have you already received this so-called Central African Strategy paper from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have you been familiar with it? If not, when will you get to know it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U114	I think it is a good thing that Estonia does not ignore or say that this is not our topic, because we have no connection with it because of our special weight or lack of immediate concern. This is also due to the logic that we are part of an international institution as a member of the European Union. It is therefore logical that we want to be an active and positive country whose views are taken into account and whose views are also substantive, not simply slogans. We have them in mind, and Africa's strategy is one of the elements of this way of thinking. I am not fully aware of how this strategy has gone. But I know that in previous discussions, it has been mentioned whether this mission coincides with the objectives of the Africa strategy we are preparing. I assure you that I have asked for a separate analysis of this, and there is no contradiction. The unambiguous answer is that this mission does not conflict with the so-called working document of the Africa Strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U115	Minister, thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Committee! Sorry, Mati Raidma! Inara Luis has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Here's the question. When we started processing this draft decision, there were not all the materials in this Chamber. When I look at the draft decision, I read that point 3 of the explanatory memorandum contains a reference: see the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision of the Riigikogu (583 OE) submitted by the Government of the Republic. There is a reference to implementing acts, but these implementing acts were not in the Chamber and could not be read. When I read this draft decision and now some paper was brought here, I see that there is a total contradiction. The minister is talking about a peace-building mission, but here we have half a page on the European Union military mission. Is that the same paper? Would you take a break and see if we've been given the right papers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U117	Thank you for your question. I see the National Defence Commission staff are sitting close to you. I believe they will help you on this matter. If you don't get an answer, give me the procedural question again. I'm sure I'll take a break. Please help the members of the Riigikogu on this issue! But please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 30 January before submitting it to the first reading. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Deputy Chancellor of Defence Sven Sakkov, Adviser Hestrid Tedder, Adviser Andres Järv, and Chief of the Operational and Training Department of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, Lieutenant Colonel Rain Jano. In addition to the decision of the Council of the European Union of 20 January to support a military mission in South Africa, the United Nations Security Council adopted a draft decision by the Government of the Republic on 583 explanatory notes at first reading. a On 28 January, Resolution 2134 was adopted on the basis of which, in turn, Resolution 2134 adopted on 10 February. a the Council of the European Union (CFSP) decided (Decision No 2014/73) to launch the European Union Peace Mission in the Central African Republic. The European Union Mission shall have the English language equivalent to EUFOR RCA, which in English shall mean the European Union military operation in Central African Republic. The mission complements and supports the peacekeeping operation of the African Union in the Central African Republic. I quote the text of yesterday's Council of the European Union decision: 'Mission. In accordance with the mandate set out in UNSCR 2134 (2014) and with a focus on the Bangui region, the Union shall conduct a military transition operation in the Central African Republic (hereinafter EUFOR RCA) to contribute to the creation of a secure and safe environment and shall transfer its operation to the Central African Republic Support Mission (AFISM-CAR) within four to six months of the achievement of full operational capability. 'The latter is an African Union military mission. As a country of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy, which is also the participation in the European Union peace-building mission in the Central African Republic in accordance with point 1 of the draft. On the basis of § 98 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the National Defence Committee decided, with the consent of the author of the draft, to submit the draft to the first reading as amended, together with the explanatory memorandum. The amendments are, in particular, specific in nature. For example, points 1 and 2 of the draft were added, which set the time frame for the mission. It was specified that only professional active troops would participate in the mission. The name of the European Union peace-building mission, which was previously absent, namely EUFOR RCA, was added. This was not yet known when the bill was presented. The task of the Estonian infantry team is likely to be the security and support operations aimed at releasing units from France and African countries for other operations. The draft also involved the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 10 February, where the Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions taking part in the Estonian Defence Forces, including the situation in the Central African Republic and the readiness of our active troops to participate in this European Union military mission. At its meeting on 30 January, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur was appointed here. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. On the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10.30 a.m. on 17 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U119	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Marianne Mikko, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Sending Estonia's military mission to the Central African Republic to regulate the humanitarian crisis is a government decision that has been little explained to the public. Or it hasn't been explained enough. The Social Democrats oppose the sending of an Estonian military mission to Africa. The government has tried to sell us the idea that the French prayer and the combined entry into the Central African Republic into the European Union peace mission will bear the same idea as Article 5 of the NATO Treaty: one for all, all for one. In other words, it is an ally. This was repeated by the Secretary of Defense standing right in front of us. But it's not! Going on a military mission in the European Union is a demonstration of solidarity. As a result, the scenario is not triggered that when Tallinn is conquered, Paris will hurry to help us, Estonia. Once again, the European Union's defence and security policy does not include such a strong clause, such as that of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, in any of its documents. Somehow the Secretary of Defense is squirming and hurrying. To be honest, he's missing an African strategy paper from the Foreign Minister. It can't be obtained yet, because the strategy is still being developed. The Minister of Defence acts as a tactician, but Estonia's security and foreign policy requires first and foremost strategy, strategic thinking. Every top politician in Europe knows that, but somehow not Reinsalu. To put it figuratively, we're gonna go to Africa without knowing what we've got to expect from Africa. Estonia has said to have given its 'yes' as soon as France asked in December. As of today, no European Union country other than France has given a strong word that it will send its infantry contingent to the Central African Republic. Socialists are aware of the promises made by the various countries to give transport aircraft to this end. That's great. But, gentlemen, good excuse! In fact, it still matters whether the country sends its people, soldiers to face the humanitarian crisis in the field. Let us ask why Estonian soldiers, with a gun in their hands, need to get to know the wet rain forest. Which element of Estonia's defence would we learn more about there? We can hope that our men will be able to protect Bangui Airport with 100,000 refugees, but in a crisis situation, the focus of the fight can quickly be transferred. On Friday, 7 February, the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Fatou Bensouda, launched an investigation into genocide in the Central African Republic. What is the need for our soldier to be exposed to the subequatorial monsoon climate? Is there a fine lesson in dealing with jaundice, hepatitis A and B, abdominal typhoid, malaria, and many other diseases in Africa? By the way, a lot of vaccines need a certain amount of time before the body becomes immune to Black Continental disease. We've heard from the Secretary of Defense that vaccination has been carried out. If that is true, it is an extremely important fact, and we need to know who gave the order. For we recall that Parliament will decide whether or not it will give a mandate to go on a mission. The Central African Republic, in its present form, means a humanitarian crisis in which one in five people in the country have left home in fear of the rebels. One in four, however, needs foreign aid in order not to die. It's French. Let us immediately ask what is the French proficiency of an Estonian soldier. Is that a B1 or a B2 level? Are you really suggesting that we let men go with an interpreter to a boiling place where you can not feel the air, but also see death at every moment? It doesn't work! Let me ask you who of our men and if anyone can speak the local Sango. I will continue with questions about the land and the people. Although Catholics are there in the part of the lion, cannibalism is not unknown in the Central African Republic. There are as many child soldiers as there are servants in the Defence Forces of the Republic of Estonia. Are we morally prepared for such clashes? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U121	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U122	Are we ready to react when it comes to mass rape of women? What would an Estonian soldier do if he witnessed mass killing or mass rape? We did not get a clear answer from the Minister of Defence who stood before us. The government is forcefully trying to turn Estonia into a global police officer. Instead of sending a military mission to the Central African Republic, the Minister for Foreign Affairs could forcefully raise development aid to the level that the UN wants. Our development aid is now 0.12% of GDP, and in a few years' time we have promised to reach 0.17%. For serious countries, development aid to Africa represents 0.7% of GDP, which is six times as much as we do. We quickly allocated EUR 100000 to the Central African Republic in January. The Social Democrats offered the Prime Minister the opportunity to give this Central African Republic mission EUR 2.7 million overnight for development aid. He didn't accept that idea. I don't understand why we can't, in military terms, trust the African Union and African soldiers in the Central African Republic. Why did the Head of Government not raise the issue in this way at the Council on Defence held in Brussels, which also discussed the European Union's military missions: if a Member State is prepared to go out with soldiers, could the European Union not fund this mission from the common security and defence money? There's no money like that!? Then the Prime Minister, who cares about his taxpayers, should propose that such a fund be set up. Did the Prime Minister raise such a question in December? Of course not. On the contrary, he issued a naked bill that Estonia is willing to go to Africa in solidarity with France and also pay for this military mission itself. This 2.7 million euros in old money means that Estonia will pay 10 million kroons per month with a generous hand for participating in the European Union's military mission, and 40 million kroons for four months. For example, the Portuguese, who know African circumstances and people well, do not rush to send their soldiers to the Central African Republic precisely because they consider it unfair when the sending country itself has to bear the cost of the money it entails. What, then, is this shared responsibility? Countries that do not intend to send warmen to the European Union military mission are not even obliged to give money for this. In other words, countries with solidarity are double-solidarity, and countries with a less developed sense of solidarity do not have to do anything. And generally nothing happens. Please don't get me wrong! The Social Democrats are all in favour of solidarity, but there is a difference between solidarity and solidarity. Not to mention the fact that, when you underline solidarity, there are actually some things that the public has not been informed about. So there are more questions for the social democrats than answers. The Social Democrats are not going to support clogging military missions where the justifications stand on clay feet and where our country's participation is clearly disproportionate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U123	Thank you. Inara Luigas, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U124	Thank you. Mr President, I also consulted Jüri Ratas. He said I had the right to ask a procedural question. However, since the draft decision is a breach of its provisions, it does not refer to implementing acts, I ask the President of the sitting to take a break and to bring the draft decision into line with the requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U125	Thank you. The chairman shall take a recess of 15 minutes. I'm asking the board to come together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U126	I'm gonna take the manager's break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-11_U127	I will extend the chairman's break for 30 minutes, and since the session is over, the session will be closed. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
