ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 12th working week. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The IRL Group initiates the Riigikogu's decision 'The establishment of the State Assembly's Trouble Committee to oppose the influence of the Russian Federation's television channels' draft. The Russian national TV channel Rossija-RTR has systematically justified aggression against an independent state during the current Ukrainian crisis, emphasised...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U3	Excuse me, please, let's keep it down a bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U4	... The unilateral right of the Russian Federation to militarily defend its fellow countrymen's community in other countries, to convey the propaganda of war and to incite hatred among peoples. This is directly contrary to the principles laid down in Estonian law and, in the wider sense, it is a security issue. Arnold Sinisalu, Director General of the Defence Police Department, stated in the last year's kapo yearbook that the Putin regime is trying to call Estonian people Russian compatriots and to tune the Estonian state, and this could jeopardise constitutional order. We consider it appropriate for the Parliament's Trouble Committee to analyse the propaganda activities of Russian television channels and, if necessary, to propose restrictions to prevent unlawful conduct. We also consider it necessary for the Commission to analyse the state of play of the Estonian Russian-speaking television audience and offer additional proposals, including the extension of the ERR programme in Russian and the establishment of a European Union television channel in Russian. We consider it important that the Trouble Committee, if the Riigikogu decides to support it, cooperates with the representatives of both Latvia and Lithuania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today, after the plenary session, a Veterans Support Group will be set up in this Chamber. The group is convened by Urmas Reinsalu, a member of the Riigikogu. In addition, there will be a speech meeting here today at 15:00 in the framework of Riigikogu Open Doors Day '95 Years of People's Representation' for the visitors of the Riigikogu. I therefore ask you to bring important materials from your desks and drawers! Not right now, we're doing a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu are registered and there are no 14 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present Annely Akkermanni, member of the Chair Committee on Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U7	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft law amending the Water Act on 10 March of this year 611 and the Board of the Riigikogu adopted the draft on 11 March. The draft passed the first reading in this Chamber on 9 April and the deadline for submitting amendments was 11 April. The draft provides for greater flexibility in the construction of sports or recreational facilities serving the bathing beach. The changes have a positive impact on the development of coastal areas and their use for recreation, sport and tourism. If the bill becomes a law, it will allow the construction of non-shore sports and recreation facilities even if the same area is the subject of regional planning. The procedure for building permits for small buildings up to 60 square metres, which are not permanently connected to the shore, will be initiated by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications instead of the Government of the Republic. No amendments were made to the draft law and the Commission adopted the following procedural decisions: to place the second reading on the plenary agenda on 22 April, i.e. today; to propose the end of the second reading and to send the draft to the third reading when the second reading is completed by 24 April 2014; to propose the final vote on the draft. The Commission adopted all procedural decisions with one vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U8	Thank you very much. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Perhaps, in the interests of historical truth, you will briefly repeat the importance of this draft before we finish second reading? Then everyone knows exactly what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U10	Excuse me for a second! Honourable Riigikogu, there is no hearing at all what the respondent will say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U11	The draft concerns buildings that are not permanently connected to the shore, which are quite small, with a surface of up to 60 square feet [60 sq m]. This size is taken from the Construction Act as the size of a small building and concerns the development of bathing areas in a particular case. According to the current Water Act, building permits for the construction of such a building cannot be applied for if a county planning has been initiated for this area. This draft can be done if it enters into force as a law. This is the so-called Pärnu bathing beach elephant draft, which also reduces bureaucracy in other Estonian bathing areas where similar summer attractions are to be installed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U12	Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I still don't know what it's like with this elephant in Pärnu. Is the installation in water to be coordinated with the Authority or not? According to the old rules, the FAA was coordinated, but since the plan was initiated, it wasn't enough either. So, what about now, is the elephant being coordinated with the FAA or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U14	The Water Act does not provide for coordination with the Authority. But when this bill becomes a law, even if a county plan has been initiated, a building permit may be issued for the construction of such facilities. I understand that since the installation of such small buildings is no longer related to county planning, the Authority's authorisation should not be required. It's a five-metre-high elephant that shouldn't interfere with air traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U15	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Annely Akkermann! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 611. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U16	The second item is the first reading of Draft 638 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U17	Honor the President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group initiated the draft decision 638 because some members of our group have joined the executive and several alternates have joined the group. The composition of the renewed group also forces us to renew the representation of the Socialists in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. We propose that Ms Tatjana Jaanson be appointed a member of the special committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu in place of Neeme Suur, Ms Marianne Mikko and Mr Jüri Morozov be replaced by Mr Maimu Berg as an alternate member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U18	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Eagle! Pep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U19	Hello, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 April, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed a draft decision tabled by the Socialists (SPC) 638 and decided, by consensus, to put it on the agenda of today's plenary session, to close the first reading, to set the deadline for amendments at 2 May at 4 p.m. and, if the first reading is closed, to send the draft to second reading and to the final vote by 7 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U20	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Peep Aru! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 638. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 638 amendments in s. a 2 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U21	Today's third item is the first reading of draft 639 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend 'Constitution of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions' by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Kalev Eagle, a member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Like the previous draft decision, draft decision No 639 has been initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party due to the renewal of its membership and the change in the composition of the Riigikogu Board. We propose the appointment of Mr Tiit Tammsaar as a member of the Special Committee on Security Supervision and Mr Karel Rüütel as an alternate member in place of Mr Heljo Pikhof. We also propose that Mr Heljo Pikhof be replaced by Mr Eiki Nestor, an alternate member of the apple tree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U23	Any questions for the waitress? It's all clear. Thank you very much, Kalev Eagle! Mr Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a co-report?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, This was also discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 14 April and decided to send a draft decision to the 639 large Chambers by today, 22 April and to propose that the first reading be completed. Amendments can be tabled until 4 p.m. on 2 May. In case we finish the first reading of the draft today, the second reading could take place on 7 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U25	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 639. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal. a 2 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U26	The fourth item is the first reading of draft 640 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the "Constitution of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions" of the Proposition of the Riigikogu by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Kaia Iva, Member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Decision 640 was handed over by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union on 8 April 2014. The content of this draft is laconical and simple. We propose that Ülo Tulik be replaced by Siim Valmar Kiisler and his alternate member Ken-Marti Vaher, who would have been there until now instead of Kaja Kreisman. Neither Ülo Tulik nor Kaja Kreisman are members of the Riigikogu anymore, so it is also necessary to change the composition of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U28	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you, Kaia Iva! Pep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U29	Ladies and gentlemen, This bill also attracted the attention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 14 April. Compared to the two previous drafts, the author of the draft has changed, this time it is the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. We decided by consensus to put this draft on the agenda for today's sitting, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 May. In case we finish reading the first reading of this draft today, the second reading could be on 7 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U30	Thank you very much. Any questions? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 640. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal. a 2 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U31	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act supplementing § 121 of the Political Party Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Marianne Mikko, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act supplementing § 121 of the Political Party Act initiated by the Social Democrats limits the annual advertising expenses of political parties to EUR 500000. The limitation equates the opportunities for political parties to be more and less represented in Parliament in the organisation of political campaigns and forces political parties to focus instead of massive advertising campaigns on the presentation of the content of the policy. The purpose of the amendment is to prohibit political parties from spending more than half a million euros on advertising, whether television, radio, internet, outdoor or press advertising or advertising in a calendar year. Costs exceeding the limit shall be considered as prohibited donations. Massive promotional campaigns, which unreasonably burn hundreds of thousands of euros, cause people to oppose politics as well as politicians and give an unfair advantage to major parliamentary parties. The aim of the amendment is to amend the law of the party in such a way that political parties' expenditure on electoral campaigns and advertising is more in line with the generally accepted rules of democracy. The amendment reduces the dependence of political party campaigns on public funding. According to the current law, parties with more members of the Riigikogu will have the advantage of organising the electoral campaign and will therefore receive more state budget support. The establishment of a common advertising cost limit will reduce the huge oversupply in the field media channels and the reduction of the importance of money in Estonian politics will create more equal opportunities for the lists participating in the elections to present their messages. The draft will provide impetus for political debate to become a priority for political parties, not for fancy posters. Introducing a cap on the costs of the election campaign would reduce the excessive spending of taxpayers' money on advertising and create a more level playing field for candidates. Finally, I would like the draft law we have initiated to pass through the first reading successfully and finally to have the power of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U33	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You can understand that if, for example, there is one election a year. But have you also taken into account such cases when there are two elections in one year? Then it's like there's not enough money. And here's another question: if, for example, the party has not spent EUR 500000 in one year, could it be spent more next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U35	We didn't play through this situation theoretically, but I understand your concern, Central Party. So I see what this is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U36	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U37	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! This situation, described by Kalev Kallo, was a reality in 2009, as the elections to the European Parliament and local authorities were then held. My question concerns the municipal elections. Are you still putting political parties on an equal footing with this bill? For example, party X puts out 50 lists in 50 municipalities in local elections, and party Y puts out 215 lists. Both parties can spend an equal amount of money on political activities, including election campaigns. Is this really an equal situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U38	Yeah, I think so. I think that all candidates have a great opportunity to meet hundreds and thousands of people and hold inflammatory debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U39	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U40	Thank you. Dear waitress, I didn't quite understand your position. First of all, at the beginning of your speech, you said that large electoral campaigns are disliked by politicians and all politics. After you talked long and hard about how making a big campaign would be a big advantage. So what's your point of view? You do not think that reluctance as such is a major advantage for some parties. Does campaigning cause reluctance, or quite the opposite, positive emotions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U41	Mr. Kisler, I suggest you watch more closely. I, like other social democrats, are reluctant to waste senseless advertising money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U42	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good Marianne! In the energy economy, quota trade is very common. If one company is unable to spend the prescribed allowances, it may resell them. The Reform Party has not campaigned for outdoor advertising in the European Parliament elections. According to your bill, could the Reform Party surrender its unused advertising quota to other parties, of course, for a reasonable fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U44	I think the advertising party... sorry, Reform Party... [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Let's start over. The Reform Party is with its voters at meetings more than welcome. I'm glad you missed one stage, which is why I imagine we're about to see a lot of television advertising. I'm looking forward to what it looks like exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U45	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I fully agree with you that indisputable and excessive advertising campaigns are certainly not good for turnout, but rather have the opposite effect. We could discuss and impose restrictions that actually work. For example, Germany has imposed restrictions on the volume of various types of advertising, such as seconds of television or radio advertising, square meters of outdoor advertising, etc. Would it not be wise in this way to approach this excessive spending in your wording on a mindless advertising campaign?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U47	I agree with your reasoning, Mr Tobal. Just as you excite me with these huge brainwashing-like TV clips. I am currently representing the Social Democratic Party Group. But if it were up to me, as a former TV journalist, I would say that Estonia could be the pioneering country without political television advertisements before the elections. Like Belgium, there could be walls with equal surfaces for everyone. That would be very fair, and then there would really be a level playing field.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U48	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U49	Thank you. Dear waitress, I too come to the issue of local elections. For example, if the Social Democratic Party is able to use EUR 500000 for local elections and if they are in government, what will prevent them from forming electoral alliances and spending another EUR 500000?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U50	Your question goes through a certain kind of rehepapapastic beginnings, and as a social democrat, I cannot agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U51	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! However, I did not receive an answer to my question as to whether the volume of unspent outdoor advertising is transferable to another party. Or, if you want to use a larger volume of advertising and someone has it over, is this volume of advertising affordable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U53	Mr. Ansip! We're in a coalition, but we're not as good at political technology as you are. I guess we should learn a little more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U54	Thank you. Please, Tatiana Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U55	Mr President, Mrs Marianne, please. How many European countries apply such restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U56	We could learn a great deal from Scandinavian countries, where neither the people nor politicians tolerate senseless waste. In Belgium, for example, there are equal surfaces distributed on all walls. So I can call these two places a start right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U57	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U58	Thank you. I'll ask you a more specific question. How can it be ruled out that a party spends more than EUR 500000 in elections? After all, the party is not prohibited from forming electoral alliances and by means of them to double or triple that amount. How do you guarantee that money will not be expanded or used in any other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U59	I repeat once again that, as with your first question, I feel right now that you think it is going to be a scheme. I do not think that we are going to be structured, because we are living in a democratic country and also in the rule of law. In my opinion, you do not need to become a good practice in the design that you are so familiar with. Our party doesn't know these schemes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U60	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I, like many forerunners, did not get an answer to my first question, and in general it seems that you do not answer any questions, so I guess there is no point in asking any more substantive questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U63	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, on the question of Mr Tarmo Tamme, it is also forbidden under current law that political parties are funding electoral alliances. This is not allowed, and if any party still does, it is illegal. So if Tarmo Tamm knows a case, he should signal it. Political parties must under no circumstances finance electoral alliances. But here's my question. A good waitress, as I understood you, is, however, in principle, possible to limit the budget for advertising that is beyond comprehension, and this can be done through volume restrictions. It does not necessarily have to be a financial constraint and it is certainly worth discussing. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U65	Yeah, the voter's not stupid, on the contrary. We politicians should respect our electorate. Therefore, as a former television worker, I think that if Estonia were a leading country to stop television advertising before the election campaign, it would be a very good signal for all the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U66	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I am a hardened optimist and, unlike Kalev Kallas, I am hoping for answers, so I will ask my colleague Andrus Ansip a follow-up question. Is this draft tabled by the Social Democrats intended to be freely negotiable within an unused limit or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U68	We're a value-based party, and we didn't see any trading element here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U69	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U70	Thank you, dear waitress. I'm gonna come help you out a little bit. If the Reform Party hurts the heart because of its remaining funds, would it be possible to have some kind of fund in which all parties could transfer their surpluses after the elections? The Board of the Fund could decide on the provision of money, and this could go to orphanages, people living in poverty, for example. In fact, it is a very grateful idea that we can develop further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U71	Thank you, Inara, for your help and for this innovative idea. I would sign with two hands and I believe that this idea would be welcomed by our entire group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U72	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U73	Thank you. Since there seems to be a lot of money left over, it is very easy to solve. In the course of the procedure, we could make provision for the surplus to go to the stabilisation reserve. But you are now in the coalition with the Reform Party, and I understand that together you are also working on and supporting legislative proposals. Does the Reform Party support your initiative and draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U74	Thank you very much for a very straightforward question. The Social Democrats are also prepared that this bill will not pass. The situation has changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U75	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask Andres Herkel, Member of the Constitutional Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed draft law 598, the draft law supplementing § 121 of the Political Party Act on Monday, 14 April, and the councillors of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice Kristen Kanarik and Katariina Kärsten also discussed this debate. In advance, the Government of the Republic has given up its opinion on this draft. Unlike today, a member of the Riigikogu, Indrek Saar, made an introduction by the initiator. It was relatively short, as was the draft itself, and this issue has been dealt with in the Riigikogu before. Indrek Saar referred to the draft as the aim of reducing the cost of election campaigns, but it would be more content. The chairman of the committee, Mr Maruste, considered that a limit could be set on advertising costs, but the difficulty lies in checking compliance with the threshold requirement, and the speaker recalled earlier discussions on this subject. By the way, as a side comment, I have collected three similar draft laws between 2003 and 2005 which have all tried in some way to limit the use of money in election advertising. As I recall, none of them have become the law. I also asked the Commission for clarification and for the verbatim report: what options do we have? I remember that already at the time when we last dealt with the draft political party law at length in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Commission discussed the volume limits, which Marianne Mikko was also asked about today, but was finally abandoned. Indrek Saar explained this by pointing out, first of all, that there are certainly ways to circumvent the financial constraints of the election campaign, but if the sneaking is too big, it is too conspicuous and will not ultimately be of any use to the sneaker. If it is still a campaign of EUR 1.5 million, it would be obvious fraud in the report, and the Commission for the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties would certainly pay attention to this. The initiators' representative stated that it is possible to limit the volume of advertising (in minutes, seconds, square centimeters) and reduce the places where posters are displayed. Furthermore, he found that the most unreasonable is the current restriction on outdoor advertising, as it does not work and rather adds meaningless work to the police. Priit Toobal raised the same question that he and Mr Kallo asked today. Indeed, the limit laid down in the draft is set out over a year, but there may be cases where more than one election campaign takes place in this form in one year. The originator's response in the Commission was somewhat more specific than in this Chamber a little while ago. Indrek Saar considered that the restriction would be the same in that case, so that less should be done within a year, two election days should also be prepared if they were concentrated on a single year. Member of the Commission, Rein Lang, also represented the view that the restriction on outdoor advertising as an ineffective measure could be abolished. He stated that the concept of advertising now fits a great deal. A discussion could be made on the limitation of the funds to be allocated to free distribution channels. The Media Services Act provides, in particular, for the principle that when a television and radio service provider grants air time to a party or to a political movement to explain its views, it must also give the opportunity to perform on equivalent terms to others. This principle also applies in Latvia, for example. The introduction of an overall financial constraint by Mr Lang was not considered appropriate and considered that 300 auditors would need to be hired in such a case. Jaak Aaviksoo, Member of the Commission, also stated that the public interest in restricting election advertising and the interest of political parties have a certain share of the public interest, and that voters do not want to receive excessive electoral advertising, and the restrictions should be physical rather than financial. However, the initiator of the draft act found that compromises could be made during the procedure. The question also arose of the fact that if this overall limit were to be shifted from volume limits to volume limits, the content of the draft would also be greatly altered. We doubted whether it would be reasonable to make such changes within the same draft. The speaker then stated that it is much more likely that real solutions will be sought when the draft passes the first reading. In the end, no one challenged it. The Commission decided to put the draft on today's agenda of 22 April and to propose that the first reading be closed. There were 10 Commission members in favour of the decision, no one opposed it and 1 abstention. It was proposed to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 May and to present the speaker as rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U77	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Does this draft really provide for a limit on electoral expenditure on the list of political parties, but this restriction is not imposed on electoral alliances?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U79	Thank you. As far as I know, electoral alliances will not receive state funding in the same way as political parties. However, the draft is essentially three lines: the party is prohibited from carrying out the costs referred to in paragraph 121 (9) (1) above EUR 500000 per calendar year. Expenditure in excess of the limit shall be considered as a prohibited donation as indicated above. So the answer to this question is: yes, there is nothing to do with the costs of the electoral alliances. The amendment is made to the party law, not to any other law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U80	Esther Tuiksoo, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Can it be understood from this bill that, for money from other sources, the list of parties can also make more advertising than the support of a political party that came from public funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U82	Thank you. No, this wording does not, in my view, make any distinction as to where the money comes from, whether it comes from the state, from private donations or from membership fees. But surely the question you raised is one topic to be discussed between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U83	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Andres Herkel. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was forced into this remote control by Indrek Island's question, which wasn't quite accurate. After all, EUR 500000 does not apply only to political parties financed by the state budget. Political parties can also receive money from companies or acquaintances, from party donations, etc. What, then, prevents some companies from supporting in parallel a political party and an electoral alliance formed on the basis of party members? What difference does it make? We don't think there's any difference. In local elections, it may be even more useful in certain situations to go out with lists of electoral alliances and thus finance the elections. Are we fulfilling the goal set by it? In summary, I can say that the Centre Party also supports the setting of a limit on election costs, but we believe that the limits should be set in such a way that they can be controlled. The restrictions on volume can best be controlled, and that political parties or electoral federations are given equal air time and newspaper space. If we try to find a solution to the problem through the EUR 500 000 limit, which, moreover, applies only to political parties and not to electoral alliances, then the draft law does not fulfil its objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U85	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 598. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal. 7 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U86	The sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 127 of the Political Party Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please waitress the speech chair of the member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U87	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present at first reading the draft of the Social Democratic Party Group to amend § 127 of the Political Party Act. The draft would change the principles of funding political parties; the system of funding political parties would become more solidarity-based. The amendment increases political competition and reduces the excessive anchoring of the power of parliamentary parties. The draft aims to reduce the differences between the political parties represented in the Riigikogu and the parties that have not entered the Riigikogu, in order to stimulate political competition and to prevent the positions of parliamentary parties being unduly fixed. On the basis of the current political party law, political parties represented in Parliament are financed 17 times higher than non-parliamentary parties, divided by the vote gathered in the elections. It does not make sense to give such a high preference to parliamentary parties. This system gives the political party that has successfully participated in the elections an unjustified advantage in organising the electoral campaign and allows the state budget to confirm the victory of the election once. Of the budgets of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu, state budget support represents up to 94%, a reduction in this amount would contribute to reducing the dependence of these parties on state budget resources. Under the current party law, political parties who did not exceed the electoral threshold but received at least 1% of the votes in the elections receive public support. At the beginning of this year, we adopted an amendment to the Political Party Act, according to which only parties who have collected at least 2% of the required number of votes can receive support from the beginning of the mandate of the next Riigikogu. We consider that this provision does not contribute to promoting effective political competition, which is why we are also providing for the repeal of this amendment in the draft. According to the draft, the system of funding for political parties would be amended by dividing half of the allocation between all political parties collecting at least 2% of the votes of the electorate in proportion to the votes collected in the elections. The other half of the allocation would be distributed equally among all political parties represented in Parliament. The amendment would reduce the difference between the amount of support paid to political parties represented in Parliament and the amount of support paid to political parties who did not have access to Parliament by one vote. Political parties collecting at least 1% of voter support would retain €10,000 support. The bill increases the possibility of discussion and debate with small parties and reduces the dominance of large communities in Estonian politics, encourages new entrants to participate in the election campaign and harmonises the capacity and resources of larger and smaller parties. This will help to eliminate the situation where political parties that have lost their elections will essentially disappear from active politics after the election period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U88	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U89	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, The question also arose in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when we discussed this bill, but I am asking about it. One of the arguments put forward by the Socialists was that the vote in the parliamentary elections would also have an even greater share of funding than it is now. We in the Commission felt that this was quite a departure from this system, because the vote now has a higher proportion than it would have been according to the new system. If your aim is to have a greater share of the funding of political parties, would it not be wise to go back to the system used in Germany, where the vote has a certain price and when the parliamentary elections have been taken away, the number of votes received will be multiplied at a fixed price, and that is the party's money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U90	Is it that every voice has a certain price? Yeah, it's definitely an option. But this bill, however, will smooth the gaps a little, rather than increase them. If the party is even below the electoral threshold but received at least 1% of the votes, this bill would help increase its funding. For example, if a party that has received 1% of the votes today receives EUR 9587 per year from the state budget, calculated on the basis of the kroon 150,000 that was previously in force, our draft would significantly increase this amount, approximately six times. In fact, the amendment adopted by the Riigikogu on 22 January 2014 was moving in the same direction, but rather in the same direction. The amendment adopted in January also increased the funding of political parties outside Parliament, but only slightly. Our bill is more cardinal in this regard. The difference between the funding of other parties, i.e. parties that have escaped to Parliament, would be reduced; the amount of money allocated to them from the state budget would be more similar than different. This would create more equal opportunities for political parties, both for those who have gotten into Parliament and for those who have been left out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U91	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, it is a remark that, if the cost of a vote is taken into account, it can also be calculated as relatively small, so that the general funding of political parties is reduced. That, too, is possible. But because of the debate on the previous draft, I'm still asking for your opinion as the initiator. Can we also move towards a system where local elections are also taken into account when financing political action? In that case, the lists of parties would receive this money on site, not everyone would run to Tallinn. Some of the money would also be available to electoral associations, which are currently placed under the condition of unequal competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U93	Thank you for an interesting question and also for interesting thought development. This development could certainly be under discussion in terms of funding political parties and political action at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U94	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U95	Thank you! Good waitress! We have a proportional electoral system according to the Constitution, i.e. seats in the Riigikogu are divided by the number of votes collected. According to your proposal, this proportionality principle does not apply to funding if 50% is distributed equally between all and 50% is distributed proportionally by the number of votes cast. Why do you want to narrow down the principle of the proportionality of financing and is it in line with what is stated in our constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U96	Thank you. The proportionality of the Constitution primarily refers to the right of representation, i.e. the party that has received the mandate of the people must also have a representative office in the Riigikogu. We cannot draw a real parallel or equal sign between representation and funding in the Riigikogu. The recent political debate has been primarily about how to revive our political landscape. At this point in time, I am convinced that the support of the state to political parties is needed to ensure that our policies do not become overly dependent on lobby groups. At the same time, there is a situation where, for example, a party that is just below the threshold receives EUR 15000 from the state budget, but a party that has reached the threshold receives a million, obviously disproportionate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U97	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U98	Thank you, manager. When the Riigikogu elections were held, certain parties received 2% votes, some received 3%. Now, for four years, they are guaranteed financial support from the State. What guarantees that these parties will remain in four years' time and come back to the Riigikogu elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U99	Thank you. There's no guarantee. The amount currently paid to them from the state budget does not give them that guarantee either. Even the adopted amendment, which will apply from the spring of next year, does not guarantee that the same political parties will stand as candidates for elections. Neither does our bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U100	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You're worried that the candidates wouldn't be in the hands of lobby groups. In the law currently in force, a party can be formed with 500 members, you will reduce the percentage of support from 2% to 1% in order to get money from the budget. Is there no danger that it will become a business project or that the lobby group will actually become arbitrary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U102	Thank you. In fact, we wouldn't lose a percentage now, but restore it. Currently, the state funding is valid from the first percentage point of view and is valid until the spring of next year, i.e. until the next Riigikogu is operational. So, in fact, what we would do would be to restore the current situation forward. It is unlikely that someone would build up their business project for EUR 10000 and start forming a party for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U103	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U104	Thank you. Good waitress! I will ask you about the text of this bill. If you look at § 127 (1) and (2) of the Political Party Act, which is amended, the text of the draft text is § 1, then the wording of the third sentence is as follows: 50% of the amount of the provision is divided equally between all parties that have been elected in the Riigikogu, etc. Where has it been taken that the election will be revealed in the Riigikogu, not on election day with the help of voters? What did you mean by that sentence? Is there a different understanding or a mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U105	Thank you. This place really needs to be edited between, for example, the first reading and the second reading. The Estonian language would, of course, be clearer if it had been written 'To the Riigikogu' rather than 'To the Riigikogu'.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In wishing for a happy Parliamentary birthday and the Riigikogu Open Doors Day, I say that Monday, 14 April was a great spring day when the Constitutional Committee discussed this draft under the sixth item on the agenda. The debate started as usual. As the representative of the bill, our good colleague, Indrek Saar, spoke in support of the matter. He said that the bill was written out of a desire to revive political competition and that the aim was to get the voter's vote to have weight, that is to say, the voter's vote would depend on how much money is distributed from the state budget to the political parties. We also heard the position of the representative of the Government of the Republic on this draft. It was relatively short, the Government of the Republic gave up its opinion on this matter. However, we had received quite a critical opinion from a part of the Government of the Republic. In particular, the Ministry of Finance noted how well-intentioned it can be concluded that, when this draft becomes a law, there may be political parties receiving support even according to the two paragraphs of this section. These are parties that received 2% or at least 1% of the votes because it is not possible to understand exactly how to make this distinction. It may also be just a editorial question, as my good colleague Neeme the Great said today in answering one of the previous questions. Such critical comments were made on this draft. In fact, the whole Commission was somewhat critical of this draft, to put it mildly. It was understood, but, as the chairman of the committee, Rait Maruste, has already said, we did indeed come to the point six months ago that we changed this law. At the time, we followed the proposals of the Riigikogu and we came to the conclusion that those who hold at least 2% of the votes in the elections would receive state budget support. Therefore, it is not appropriate to reduce subsidies again now, since this law adopted six months ago, as stated, will enter into force only after the elections of the XIII Riigikogu. Some colleagues in the Commission, such as Mr Aaviksoo, Mr Herkel and others, thought that the system that was just adopted should still work. Perhaps in the future, we should consider whether we need to lower the bar again or not. The Commission did not find an answer to the second issue either. In fact, the proposed system could, as has already been pointed out today, put the vote down even more. In conclusion, the majority of the Commission took into account the political reality and we were in agreement that the Commission proposes today to conclude the first reading of this draft. There were 10 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed and one abstention. The proposal is to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 May 2014. However, I understood from the Commission that the further procedure for this draft should not be hasty and, if there are very good proposals, the Commission is prepared to discuss all of this in the framework of the draft. The last point was made at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by our good colleague Rein Lang, and I am pleased to refer to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U107	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! What is the weighty new knowledge that led to the need to amend the law adopted six months ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U109	Thank you. This question could have been answered well by the previous speaker. As part of the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can say that we did not get a very good impression of this because we do not understand what has changed since the adoption of the previous law. I'm not going to interpret it like that. I think it may be the inland waters of the drafters, the hope of making a good thing even better. But it may not always be like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U110	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! There is not much time left until the end of the current Riigikogu. You said this bill wouldn't be too quick. Could you specify how fast this bill will move forward and when it will reach its final stage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U112	Thank you for a good question. No, I'm not going to specify that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U113	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is recalled that last year's best law, adopted by Parliament, was the law of the party that we dealt with six months ago and which also included the current financing system. Do you agree that this law passed six months ago is the best law of last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U115	Thank you for that question. How, then, could I, as an individual, think differently than a serious formation such as the People's Assembly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U116	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Neeme the Great! Mr Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a co-report?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U117	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 599. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal. 7 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U118	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U119	Thank you. Dear waitress, Mr. Linde! I had the question in listening to this review: how do you take that Andres Herkel has been optimistic about the reliability of the system that has just been adopted? I didn't get that impression myself. In the course of this procedure, I tabled an amendment quite similar to the content of the current draft law. I am not optimistic about the current financing system or about the latest cosmetic changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U120	I'm not really stuck in such an optimistic expression. I just remember and also reviewed the verbatim report that, according to Andres Herkel, this new bill puts a price on the vote received in the Riigikogu elections, and in some countries similar systems already exist. Therefore, I could not read the very deep criticism of this draft. But if you claim that this was a criticism, I would kindly agree with it and say that the Commission's common position (without votes against) was to conclude the first reading of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U121	Our seventh item today is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Government Act and the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the Riigikogu, please present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A member of the European Commission is one of the highest positions in the management of the European Union. The success of the European Union as a whole depends to a large extent on the competence and ability of the person holding this office. The nomination of a Member of the European Commission shall be the responsibility of the Member States. At the same time, it is in the interests of each Member State and of the European Union as a whole to present the best possible Commissioner-designate. In Estonia, the nomination of a Commissioner is currently under the exclusive competence of the executive power. The public and the Riigikogu do not have a substantive opportunity to participate in this matter, which allows the government to base its presentation on the competence of the candidate not in European matters, but in party interests and private agreements. We Social Democrats, when the initiators of the draft are of the opinion that in a parliamentary state, the right to appoint a candidate should belong to the Riigikogu. This would ensure a public debate on the suitability of the candidate and would enable the candidate to demonstrate his competence and commitment to European affairs. The aim of the draft is to change the current procedure for the nomination of the Commissioner, making it transparent, as is appropriate for parliamentary democracy. Under the current procedure, the Commissioner-designate will be presented by a government which will not have to coordinate the candidate with any constitutional institution until a decision is taken. When adopting our draft, the Government of the Republic would only be able to propose the candidate who has been approved by our Chamber, the Riigikogu. In practice, the draft stipulates that the Government of the Republic shall submit its candidate to the Riigikogu for coordination. The suitability of the candidate will be assessed in the ordinary parliamentary debate, allowing the candidate to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu and demonstrate his competence in European matters. The Riigikogu would then appoint a Commissioner-designate through a vote. However, in order to ensure effective communication with the European Union institutions on the question of the Commissioner-designate, the draft leaves the Government of the Republic with a wide range of powers. In fact, the Riigikogu only discusses the candidacy of the person who has been nominated by the government and cannot offer candidates for his own part. When this draft is adopted as a law, the Riigikogu receives the right of co-decision according to parliamentary democracy in the process of appointing a member of the European Commission, which increases the transparency of the decision. A candidate for a Member of the European Commission will have a rare opportunity to demonstrate publicly in the framework of a parliamentary debate his competence in European matters and to explain his views on the European Union. This will improve public information about the European Union and increase confidence that the proposed candidate is the best from the perspective of the European Union, not just party interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U123	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Tobal, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U124	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! You have provided for this law to enter into force on 1 January 2015. As we know, the next Euro Commissioner, the representative of Estonia, must be appointed at the end of this year. For what reason do you foresee that, at the end of this year, the Commissioner-designate may still be presented by the government, and this issue will only be brought to Parliament in the future? Why should this law not enter into force in the normal way, so that the autumn procedure should already be in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U125	Thank you for your question. I don't think rushing is ever gonna work. We want to change the principle, so January 1 is a pretty good deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U126	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U127	Thank you. I basically have the same question: what prevents you from adopting such a necessary law before your summer vacation? In my opinion, we have enough time and strength to bring the new candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission to the Riigikogu this autumn. What's stopping it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U128	It is just good parliamentary practice that no thing is adopted in haste.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U129	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As far as I know, only one of the 28 countries of the European Union is the Commissioner-designate appointed in Parliament. You said with the draft you wanted to make the appointment of a Commissioner candidate more transparent according to parliamentary democracy. Why is it that the 27 countries of the European Union do not want to appoint Commissioners-designate in a transparent way to a parliamentary democratic state?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U131	Mr. Ansip! I am pleased to inform you that, firstly, there are not 27 Member States in the European Union, but 28 Member States. Secondly, your data is a little out of date. I recognise that you are right about 19 Member States, but there are also countries where Parliament has the right to have a say. These are mainly Eastern European countries, but not just Eastern European countries. I can also read about those countries where there is such a custom: Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland and Austria. If we decide to adopt this law too, Estonia will be included in this list.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U132	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U133	Thank you. Good waitress! You said in your speech and also in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party that the current method of submitting a Commissioner candidate is based not on the competence of the candidate's European affairs, but on party interests and private agreements. Am I right to understand that, according to the Social Democratic Party, in 2014, a candidate will be nominated for party interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U134	Thank you. I think that the text can be read another time, then it will be more understandable. Rather, they want to prevent such a situation. So, no, I don't agree with you. You read more out of the text than there was.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U135	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask whether, today, something prevents the Riigikogu from listening to this candidate for the Euro Commissioner, even in the form of a discussion of a crucial national issue. After all, this does not have to be achieved by a final vote, which, in the worst case (even if not excluded), could conflict with the decision of a national Parliament and, for example, with the decision of the European Parliament. I'm sure no one wants that. However, we never know how our Commissioner-designate will ultimately be treated on Brussels May before these votes have been made there. Have you, however, also considered'simpler ways' to discuss it and get a wider voice on the question of the Commissioner-designate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U137	Mr. Väino Linde, you yourself mentioned one possibility, and that is to be welcomed. On the other hand, it is really not normal for the European Parliament to reject a candidate proposed by a Member State. However, this has happened, namely with Mr Buttiglione in 2004. Italy appointed a man who did not pass the round of questions in the European Parliament and was forced to replace Mr Buttiglione. So it's rare, but it's possible practice. Therefore, when we have decided together on the question of the Commissioner of the European Commission and discussed it all, it is also because of the greater will of the people, and we feel more confident as Estonians. Although the Commissioner of the European Commission does not represent Estonia, on the contrary, his oath of office says that he must serve the interests of the European Union and not of any particular nation state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U138	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In most of the countries listed by you, the Commissioner-designate will be heard in committee and in just one European Union country, Lithuania, there will indeed be a vote on the candidate's suitability in Parliament. There are no more such countries. But my question is how would you resolve the conflict between the national parliament and the European Parliament if the national parliament supported its Commissioner-designate with one voice, but the European Parliament rejects it. How would you resolve the conflict between the National Parliament supporting the candidate and the President of the European Commission, who can alone reject this candidate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U140	Thank you for your intellectually interesting question, Mr Ansip. But I dare say, as I said earlier, that cases where the European Parliament would reject a candidate proposed by the government of a nation state are very rare. I wouldn't want to descend into speculation, which would happen because it's a disappearing little opportunity. There must be something very clearly in a man's political career that casts him in the shadows that the European Parliament should vote down the nomination of the Commissioner of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U141	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, On an idea level, I agree with your proposal to involve more national parliaments in this important designation. However, aren't we talking about two things at once? One thing is that the national parliament decides, and the other is that the national parliament is consulted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U143	Yeah, I also mentioned it was co-decision. We, i.e. the Riigikogu, do not submit a candidate. So that's just co-decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U144	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U145	Thank you, Madam President. I personally like that the Social Democrats have chosen a new path in the Riigikogu in dealing with draft laws. Such a long time is actually right, so the drafts should be dealt with and the laws adopted. Does this principle also apply, for example, to the intention to increase VAT on passenger cars, and to which the budget has already been earmarked? I also ask about the increase in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, the use of specially labelled fuel for domestic heating, etc. Does this principle also apply to these laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U146	Thank you, Mr. Tamm! One step at a time! We are currently discussing the question of the candidate for Commissioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U147	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Marianne Mikko. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 604 was discussed by the Riigikogu in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday 14 April. a. The previous speaker has already summarised the content of the draft text briefly, and I would not discuss or introduce it to you. The draft provides, inter alia, for what was less mentioned, for a presentation of a candidate for a Member of the European Commission and a representative of the lead committee to be made during the reading of the draft decision. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After that, negotiations will be held, during which the members of the Riigikogu, the representatives of committees and political groups wishing to express their views will take place, and the draft decision will then be put to the final vote. The Government of the Republic took a restrained or reserved attitude towards this bill. It was found that the involvement of the Riigikogu in the nomination of the Commissioner of the European Commission could be introduced in Estonia, its possibility and necessity were acknowledged, but no position was taken on the particular procedure. There was a longer debate in the Commission on what this could lead to if we went this way, as proposed in the draft. The draft decision will also be put to the final vote, which means that the Riigikogu either approves or rejects the candidate. The Members of the Commission raised very clearly the question of whether it is reasonable and practical to link themselves to such a decision, as it cannot be ruled out the conflict already mentioned between the national parliament and the European Union Parliament or between the President of the Commission of the European Union and the national parliament. Therefore, some Members of the Commission, named Jaak Aaviksoo, Rein Lang and the speaker here questioned the proposed solution. However, there was agreement that the national parliament should be more involved and perhaps it would be reasonable to find a compromise to avoid potential conflict. At the end, Indrek Saar said that the initiator of the draft text was willing to seek a compromise that would not put the European Parliament in a bad position or create a conflict. It is possible that, in the course of the draft procedure, we will find a compromise that will solve the problem of greater disclosure of the candidate for a Member of the European Commission and the wider involvement of Parliament, and we would also avoid a possible conflict in the future procedure. The Commission decided to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 April, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 7 May. All the decisions were consensual and it was unanimously decided to appoint a rapporteur for the draft here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U149	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Rait Maruse! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Social Democrats, unlike some other so-called 'democracy package' legislative proposals, this bill has a complex character. In some ways, we also consider this draft to be our own draft law. Let me remind you that s. On January 18th, Edgar Savisaar, the chairman of the Centre Party, first came up with the idea that the Euro Commissioner could be elected or appointed by the legislative body or parliament instead of the government. Only after that, on 21 January, the Bureau of the Social Democratic Party discussed this issue, and on 19 February you submitted a draft law to this effect. So, to some extent, we consider this bill to be your own idea, which is yours. However, as often happens, there are some quite fundamental or technical errors and problems in the draft. I will announce in advance that we will put forward at least two amendments to this draft. The first concerns the time of entry into force of the law. We believe that this could enter into force in the normal way, not only in January next year, because if there is enough time, the autumn procedure should be brought before us in Parliament as well. We also believe that the nomination of the Commissioner-designate should not be limited to 51 votes in Parliament, but should receive somewhat wider support than 51 votes. Support could be the same as for the President elected in this Chamber, at least two thirds. So two such proposals will certainly be put forward for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U151	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 604. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 7 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U152	Our eighth item on the agenda today is the first reading of the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Amending Act on the State Assets Act 603 initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U153	Honor the President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats initiated draft Act No 603 on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and supplementing the State Assets Act on the basis of the understanding that the conflict of interest arising from the principle of separation of powers in membership of the councils of state-owned companies and foundations established by the state must be ruled out. The assessment of the suitability and competence of the candidates in the process of appointing the members of the boards of legal persons referred to in the State Assets Act must also be made more broad-based and transparent. In order to achieve these objectives, we propose that the two laws mentioned in the title of the draft be supplemented. First, according to the current Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu may not be the head of a state-owned company and a foundation established by the state or a member of the management board during his mandate. This draft extends the list of prohibitions to the councils of these organisations. To this end, the wording and title of § 28 of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu must be supplemented with the word 'Council'. Secondly, we propose to supplement section 81 (5) of the State Assets Act, which gives the owner of the participation and the founding or exercising of the rights of members the right to appoint only a person whose appointment has been approved by the relevant Riigikogu commission. The Board of the Riigikogu shall appoint the committee concerned. The two minor formal changes described here give rise, according to the initiator, to a higher substantive effect. With the first amendment, we exclude such a conflict of interest that members of the Riigikogu must decide on matters that concern them themselves or their political group members. We rule out the violation of the principle of separation of powers, where the sovereign of state assets appoints members of the Riigikogu to the council, i.e. the legislator receives the power from the executive authority to bear the responsibility of the minister, performs the duties assigned by the minister and receives the remuneration determined by the minister. The previous Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, pointed out already in 2008 that this situation is contrary to the principle of incompatibility, separation of powers and balance of agencies. With the second amendment, we will make the process of appointing the members of the boards of legal persons mentioned in the State Assets Act more transparent and broad-based in assessing the suitability and competence of candidates and reduce political pressure. All these factors improve the quality of the Soviets, which is why governance of state assets will be purposeful, practical, sustainable and prudent in the future, as required by §8 (1) of the State Assets Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U154	Thank you very much. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You spoke here in a spirited way about the need to ensure separation of powers. The current State Assets Act provides that a representative of the Ministry of Finance is appointed by law to the Board of the Foundation established by the State and that it is the duty of the Minister of Finance to appoint his representative to the Board. Now you want the Riigikogu to give it its blessing. How does this relate to the separation of powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U156	Thank you for your question. Exactly the same point you drew attention to during the Commission's debate, and we admitted that the draft must be brought into line with this proposal in the course of further proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U157	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As we know, MEPs in very many countries of the European Union can at the same time also be members of local government councils. In some countries, a Member may at the same time hold the mayor's office or the mayor's office. The Member of Parliament may also participate in the work of the Council of State-owned companies. Why do you, as the initiator of the draft, consider the Estonian MP to be less reliable than the ambassadors of many other European Union countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U159	Thank you! I certainly do not share the questioner's view that we consider our colleagues to be less reliable. We follow the principle, figuratively speaking, that a member of the Riigikogu does not have to be a groom at every wedding and a deceased at every funeral. As early as 2008, the Chancellor of Justice drew attention to the problem that there may be a contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, and this draft was based on the understandings of the honourable Allar Jõks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U160	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U161	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I, too, do not fully understand whether this bill should improve the management of companies or not. To date, there have already been plenty of press reports on the EAS case where board members, who are either owners or shareholders in some companies and, at the same time, in the national foundation or company board, have made use of the situation in the interests of so-called their own companies. I have not heard of this problem with the members of the Riigikogu. It seems to me that a member of the Riigikogu still represents the interests of the state and its company well enough. But businesses will certainly be tempted to use national companies for their own business. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U162	As regards the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the board of public undertakings, I have already answered that question. However, as regards the appointment by the Minister of the members of the boards of public undertakings, the practice so far gives rise to all kinds of conspiracy theories. In order to be more transparent, we have proposed an amendment that will help to prevent problems such as the EAS.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U163	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U164	Thank you, Madam President. As regards this prohibition extending to a member of the Riigikogu, the alleged refusal to belong to the councils of state companies, it is based on the Chancellor of Justice's own-time opinion on § 63 of the Constitution, which says that a member of the Riigikogu must not be in any other state office. Can you tell me if being a member of the council is state office? I don't think so. Is that what you think? And the second question I have is the same as Mr Kallo. Are the members of the Riigikogu really less reliable than experts and business people in the councils, who have their totally legitimate interests, which are not in the public eye or transparent?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U165	Thank you for your question. I would be very unwary at the moment to enter into a constitutional dispute with the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When preparing this draft, we were based on the understanding of the previous Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, who, in his analysis, came to the conclusion that the membership of the council of the state-owned company of a member of the Riigikogu corresponds in some way to the characteristics of being in another state office. As far as the second half of your question is concerned, I repeat that as the initiator of the draft, we do not detest or suspect our colleagues in any way. We do not think at all that they are not well placed to carry out their duties on the boards of public authorities. The motive for amending the law is rather a possible contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U166	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U167	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! The first paragraph of the draft law I certainly support and belong to those who believe that, in the light of the current constitution, these two offices are members of the Riigikogu and a member of the supervisory board of a state-owned business company, are not compatible agencies. For me, the problem is in § 2 of this bill, which concerns the role of Parliament's committee in the appointment of members of the Council. Is it not somewhat odd that a minister, or general meeting, may not appoint members of the supervisory board without the Commission's position or approval, while he will be able to carry out all the other functions of the general meeting later as a member of that board? And does he need or does he not need the Commission's position when he is called back? That's not what this bill says either. Can we move on to this bill so that we can keep the first paragraph in and remove the second? Then we would definitely support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U168	It is likely that the initiators will stick to the proposed draft and will not share your proposal. But it certainly does not take away from you the opportunity to make such an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U169	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U170	Thank you, Mr President. I gotta be honest, I'm a little embarrassed now. As Minister of Culture, I appointed Theatre NO99 council (a foundation established by the state) Indrek Saare, who, in my opinion, has been one of the strongest Estonian theatre leaders since 1991. You have now said that this situation is, in your opinion, unconstitutional. Why, then, have the Social Democrats not called for Indrek Saar to resign from this Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U171	When this bill enters into force as a law, it is likely that Indrek will have to make such a move.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U172	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U173	Thank you. At first, this bill has really not yet become a law and does not know exactly when it will come into force. But what are the plans of the initiator? In the near future, it is likely that there will be a replacement of the members of the board of directors of several public undertakings. At the same time, we know that the largest number of public undertakings have a general meeting, which is the Socialist Minister for Economic Affairs. Have you discussed whether the Social Democrats could apply the principles of this draft before this law enters into force? Can we then foresee that the Minister of Economic Affairs, for example, can bring all these appointments of members of the Council to the discussion of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu and similarly refuse to appoint members of the Riigikogu to the councils of state-owned companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U174	As far as the entry into force of this draft is concerned, it must be admitted that small corrections will have to be introduced here in the course of further processing of the draft. The first paragraph of the draft act, concerning the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the boards of public undertakings, cannot be applied in the normal manner and it would be reasonable to postpone its entry into force in the implementing provisions towards the autumn, for example by 1 November. However, as regards § 2 of the draft, where it is intended to ask the Minister for the consent of the relevant Riigikogu committee when appointing the members of the boards of public undertakings, I do not see any problem with the normal implementation of this procedure, it could be implemented in the normal manner. In its proposed form, the draft does not mean that all councils must be dissolved, but only concerns those cases when someone is being replaced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U175	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The activities of the company council are regulated by the Commercial Code and I therefore consider that a member of the board cannot be any other state office in which a member of the Riigikogu is prohibited. My question concerns what Kalev Kallo has already mentioned. Is this draft aimed at removing from the boards of state-owned companies those members who are not involved in scandals and replacing those who have no responsibility for voters? Let us remember that the latest major Soviet scandals relate to EAS and Estonian Air. In Estonian Air, a member of the Riigikogu reportedly did not support Tero Taskila's payment of EUR 33 000.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U177	Thank you for your question. The Social Democrats have come up with this legislative amendment several times and much earlier than the EAS scandals. We have always taken the view that this is not a normal situation when the legislator receives powers from the executive, bears responsibility to the minister, carries out the duties assigned by the minister and receives the remuneration determined by the minister. We share the understanding of Allar Jõks that there is a contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U178	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am still asking about § 2 concerning the role of the Commission in the future appointment of a member of the Council. The current version says that the manager of the participation and the founding or exercising of the rights of members have the right to appoint only a person whose appointment has been approved by the relevant Riigikogu commission. The Board of the Riigikogu shall appoint the committee concerned. What about recalling a member of the council? Does the Minister have exclusive competence here, or does he have to consult the Commission in this case? Or what about all the other rights of the general meeting? For example, if, as a general meeting, the Minister wants to give a guidance or even a task to a member of the supervisory board (such rights are currently governed by the Commercial Code), does he also have to discuss it in the relevant committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U180	It must be acknowledged that the current wording of the draft provides for a situation in which the appointment of a member of the Council is regulated solely on the Minister's initiative and not a recall. Although a certain logic here is that in this pipe water should flow in two directions: if it is right to mention it, there should also be an obligation to take an appropriate position from the Commission when calling it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U181	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You keep referring to the former Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, but what does the current coalition agreement say about this topic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U183	I don't dare quote a coalition treaty by heart right now. According to my memory, there has been some sort of compromise solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U184	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U185	Thank you. Good waitress! As regards the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Council, I almost agree with you that there are doubts as to the separation of powers. But there is obviously no black and white solution here and certain choices need to be made. But the second part of my question is what Mr Ansip referred to, that the Council is operating under the Commercial Code, which cannot extend to the state office, and that is already an insurmountable obstacle for me. The state office is one thing and the board of directors of the company is another. They are subject to different legal regulations and belong to different areas of the doctrine of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U186	Thank you for your question, or rather for your comment. The initiators of the draft act have not observed any contradiction with the Commercial Code when writing this draft. If further discussion by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reveals that there is such a contradiction, we will always be open to compromises.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U187	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U188	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, For me, approval of a member of the Riigikogu in the committee before he takes up his duties as a member of the council is a key issue, because in certain cases it is necessary to change and change the members of the council very quickly. We can imagine when the Riigikogu is on summer vacation and the minister has a wish to replace the member of the Supervisory Board. So how do you do it? Will the Riigikogu be convened or will the committee be convened? How do we find a quick solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U189	Thank you for your question. I agree that the solution we have proposed does not work for rapid solutions, but there is nothing to be done about the transparency of democracy and the broad-based nature of these criteria, which must not compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U190	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I understand from what you have said, and also from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that the presentation of the draft Social Democrats is based on the opinion of the former Chancellor of Justice. Do the honourable drafters also know what has been said and what your current contradiction is felt by the current Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U192	Thank you. I cannot answer on behalf of all the initiators of the draft, but, as far as I know, the current Chancellor of Justice has not made any statements that would unequivocally contradict the views of Allar Jõks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U193	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Kalev Eagle! Mr Tarmo Tamme, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U194	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 603 of the Act supplementing the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and the State Assets Act was at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee on Monday 14 April 2014. The committee was invited by Kristen Kanarik and Katariina Kärsten, advisers of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice; Arne Koitmäe, Legal Adviser to the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and Tarmo Carrots, Deputy Head of the Public Assets Department of the Ministry of Finance. The presentation was made by a honourable colleague from the Commission, Kalev Kotkas, who also presented this draft to us in this Chamber. The Government of the Republic gave up its opinion on the draft, but forwarded the comments of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance on the draft. The Ministry of Justice considered that the arrangements for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board could be amended in the case of legal entities with public participation, but this could be done by less stringent means. Such a measure could be, for example, seeking the consent or opinion of the Riigikogu committee. The Ministry of Finance considered that the State Assets Act already regulates the principle of appointment of members to councils with sufficient precision and that competent members are guaranteed in councils. Tarmo Carrots added that the state of Estonia currently has 31 companies and is co- or sole founder of nearly 70 foundations. If, on average, there are five members in the Council, this regulation will affect almost 500 people in total. On the practical side, the Riigikogu may make the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board very long and in some cases also hinder the organisation of the company or foundation. Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, pointed out that foundations established by the State and public undertakings are certainly of different weight. There were a lot of comments from the Members of the Commission and I would like to highlight some of them. Urmas Reinsalu found that there were two problems with the draft. The first paragraph of the draft act relates to the separation of powers, is a reasonable addition and must be introduced into the law. Reinsalu also proposed to resolve the two sets of issues separately. Mr Rein Lang said that the two sections of the draft did not work well together. The first paragraph seeks to exclude members of the Riigikogu from the councils and it is a matter of discussion. In the second section, a committee consisting of members of the Riigikogu would begin to discuss the suitability of the specialists proposed by the minister to the council. It's a hundred percent Soviet politicisation. The Commission took the following decisions: the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 22 April 2014 was consensual; the proposal to close the first reading was also consensual; the proposal to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 7 May 2014, was also consensual. It was decided to appoint the vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur by one vote. That's all for short.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U195	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Priit Tobal! Is it a line from the point of view? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Estonian Centre Party is that the office of a member of the Riigikogu and the office of a member of the supervisory board of a state-owned company are incompatible with the Constitution. In this sense, the Centre Party supports the draft Social Democrats. It is quite questionable, however, that § 2 of this draft, which talks about the role of the parliamentary committee in the future appointment of a member of the Council. It seems to us that §s 1 and 2 are like alternatives, i.e. as if to enforce § 1, § 2 doesn't make much sense anymore. In the committee, I agreed with Jaak Aaviksoo, who said that if members of the Riigikogu are denied membership of company councils, then there will be only experts and in the future there will be no reason for the general meeting, or minister, to come before politicians and parliamentary committees in order to have a political position on these experts. The Centre Party supports the first part of the draft, and we are very likely to propose that § 2 be removed from this draft law in this form. In my opinion, there has been a situation in Parliament where three of the four parliamentary parties support the principle that a member of the Riigikogu should not belong to the boards of companies. Therefore, the majority supports this draft and we could adopt it as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-22_U197	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 603. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal. 7 May at 5.15 p.m. The agenda for today's sitting is exhausted. Thank you to all present, and I wish you a nice day. Happy open-door day of the Riigikogu! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.54 a.m.
