ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U1	Dear colleagues, good Riigikogu, good morning. We will begin the session of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. You don't want to hand over the drafts. In that case, we'll do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U2	We're gonna get on today's agenda. The first item on today's agenda is the third reading of the Constitutional Committee's draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu and other laws. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 396. We shall proceed to the preparation of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the draft requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we will first do a verification of the presence. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu initiated by the Constitutional Committee 396. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 63 members of the Riigikogu), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 6 votes to 1 with 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U3	Our second item today is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Any requests? There's no call. Can we go to the vote now? The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 663. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law of the Chancellor of Justice, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 663. Please take a stand and vote. 84 parliamentarians voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U4	Our third item is the third reading of Bill 602 of Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Any requests? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, However, this is not the first time that the government union currently in power is trying to increase its influence in one municipality or another, even though they have not received a mandate from the people in the elections. The most vivid example is, of course, the increase in the number of members of the City Council of Tallinn with the aim of improving its positions in the capital by means of legislative tricks. It is not much wiser to change the law on the organisation of local government initiated today. According to the Constitution, the local authority is free, autonomous from state authority in its decisions and organisation of work. So far, according to its statutes and the rules of procedure of the council, the local government had the right to decide for itself how to choose the leaders of the council or committee. Now it is written in law and told to do exactly as the Socialists and the Reform Party like and do. What's next? Is there a letter in the law that the mayor of Tallinn cannot be Savisaar, regardless of how the voters think? Or that, regardless of the election results, Roosna-Allik must not be led by the Centre Party. The handle's pulling that way. In a democratic country, power can be exercised through elections and the support it receives, not by tricking the law. That's also true at local level. Ladies and gentlemen, the local elections must be successful, not run cities and municipalities from this hall! The Centre Party will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U6	Any more calls? There's no more calls. Urmas Reinsalu, I'm sorry! Pushing the button went a little slow.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U7	Mr. Toobal, why are we here to sow confusion and talk about things that have not really been there? The intention of the IRL regarding the changes to the Local Government Election Act, which we have made with the Socialists and Reform Party, is very clear: as many as one force receives votes in the elections, it must also receive seats on the council. Very logical. Before the system was out of balance, we struck a balance in the light of the problem posed by the Chancellor of Justice. To argue that this is somehow biased or contrary to the general rules of a proportionate sampling system is simply misleading. Now, about this Social Democrat bill. This is where I say: good, Social Democrats, the right bill! If there is a situation where one political force that has received a mandate from the people in the municipal elections but is not represented by the majority in the council committees, then something is out of order. The result of the election is not reflected in the formation of these committees; we see a number of places where the rights of the opposition have been dullly overridden by a roller coaster. In this sense, this draft law correctly refers to the problem. I must say that we certainly support this bill, but I would like to urge the Reform Party a little bit. It is a pity that you opposed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to do this right away. We will not change this thing, which, according to the Socialists, means a real failure at the level of local representative democracy, not right away, as the draft envisaged, but in three years' time. I think it's unnatural. If there is a real problem, and I think there is a real problem here, it should be resolved immediately, not in three years, in a thousand days. It's too late. Nevertheless, I have good news for you: IRL still supports this bill. But once again, it's too late, friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U8	Thank you very much. Priit Toobal, rejoinder on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable speaker! I must remind you that you have a selective memory, unfortunately. As we know, the draft law concerning the increase of the City Council of Tallinn applied only to the City Council of Tallinn and did not affect any other local government across Estonia. It did not increase the councils in Tartu, Viljandi or Suure-Jaani, although the number of council mandates is not exactly in proportion to the number of votes received, as was the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. This draft today, which I have spoken about in the board, is not talking about whether the opposition will have seats on the council committees, as Mr Reinsalu has just referred to. It is a pity that the Member of the Commission in which the draft was dealt with has not even bothered to read the draft. After all, the draft states that local governments will be told how in the future the chairman and vice-chairman of the council and the leaders of the committees must be elected, not who will be members of the committees in the future. So I suggest that the previous speaker read the bill first and press the button only after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U10	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, speaking on the spot for two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U11	Thank you, Madam President. The Social Democrats are a little puzzled that Mr Toobal really has not understood which bill we are talking about right now. This draft does not deal in any way with the election of the Chairs and Vice-Chairs of the Council. Bill 602 doesn't deal with the topics he told us about. His prepared universal speech probably applies to our next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U12	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse, speaking on the subject for two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U13	Thank you! I will explain to Mr Reinsalu and others who bear the same thinking, why we will only enforce this standard for the next elections. There is a very pragmatic and simple reason for this: to save local governments from redeploying their statutes under the rule of law. If there is a problem, it will arise after the next election of councils to set up committees. These committees are currently in place and, as a rule, there is no need for this rule. We will lay down this rule when this issue comes back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U14	Is Peep Arul a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U15	I would like, yes, to refute the wrong argument made by Mr Toobal in this Chamber that the draft concerns only the election of the Commission's management. In fact, there is also a point in this draft that will give the opposition a place in committee with complete certainty. This point is as follows: 'The composition of the committee of the Council shall take into account the proportion of political parties and representatives of the electoral federations in the council. ' This proportion is first introduced into the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U16	I'm sorry, I have to say it wasn't a procedural question. Only the representatives of the political groups take the floor in the third reading negotiations, and that is why we cannot open a bigger debate here now. I asked you if there was a procedural question, and then there should have been a procedural question. Mikhail Stalnukhin, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U17	I really do have a procedural question. I would like to know why you allow Mr Arul, for example, to break the law, to have him ask a non-procedural question if the rule does not see it coming. Come in, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U18	I totally agree with you. I think that was the wrong move right now. So I shouldn't have let you, but I realized they wanted to ask a procedural question. Please, is Peep Arul now a procedural question? Do you want to ask me a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U19	Yes, in this sense, I have a procedural question as to whether Peep Arul is entitled to speak here in the Riigikogu at the time of the third reading as a representative of a group when he hears a lie from the servant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U20	Procedural questions are allowed to the manager. However, according to the rules of procedure, only the representatives of the political groups have the right to speak in the negotiations and to speak about the draft. That is how we have established this in the Rules of Procedure ourselves. Please, is Urmas Reinsalu a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U21	Yes, it is! I have a procedural proposal. I fully agree with Peep Arug: if there is still a false story, it is important to clear the matter so that the verbatim does not hang the wrong thing. I think it must certainly be treated as a procedural reply so that the verbatim does not remain in the air after the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been here in the Riigikogu for so long. If you want to ask a procedural question, you know how to formulate this sentence. Please, Valdo Randpere, do you have a procedural question for the manager? Please ask your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U23	Can we just vote on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U24	I will put this bill to the vote after the passions have cooled down. Now it looks like it's gone like this. I shall conclude the negotiations and we shall proceed to the vote on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on the organisation of local government initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 602. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 14 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U25	Our fourth item today is the second reading of draft law amending the Law on Competition and the Law on the Organisation of the Rural and Agricultural Market, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present Kristen Michal, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Let me briefly outline what happened in the Commission and how we reached second reading. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 8 September and the first reading took place on 21 October. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 4 November at 5 a.m. Four proposals came from the Ministry of Agriculture, with which the Ministry of Finance also agreed, and the Commission confirmed all four proposals by consensus. That's all I have to say. It was proposed that the second reading be completed and that, when the second reading is completed, the third reading should also be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U27	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Kristen Michal! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will examine four amendments tabled by the commission. Amendment 1, take full account. Amendment 2, take full account. Amendment 3, take full account. Amendment 4, take full account. The amendments have been examined and the second reading of the draft has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U28	We're going to the next item. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 738. I would like to present a speech chair to Tiit Tammsaare, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U29	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety after the amendments were received. Amendments came mainly from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as from esteemed colleagues Valdo Randpere and Deniss Borodich. The most interesting of all was, of course, Valdo Randpere's proposal not to change the level of alcohol that a recreational boat driver might still be sailing at sea and to stick to the current regulation. Now, as you know, this is an acceptable rate of 0.8 milligrams. The Ministry of Economic Affairs proposed that the level of promills should be reduced to 0.5. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue several times. Valdo Randpere's proposal to stick to 0.8 was supported by an intense discussion with 5 members of the Commission, 4 against and 1 abstention. The amendment therefore went through. On the basis of what was initially decided by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications made an additional proposal, which is also included in the list of amendments. Now it is up to you to decide whether you will agree to the proposal that the Ministry originally came up with, i.e. you will stick to 0.5 milligrams, or you will stick to 0.8, which was the result of the intensive vote of the Economic Commission (vote ratio 5:4). As regards the second amendment, the Commission has also taken a positive decision on this. Here was the question of fees. The Ministry of Finance was asked whether Deniss Borodich's proposal would change budgetary positions. As a result of the analysis, the Ministry of Finance came to the conclusion that those charges, which are partly reduced, do not affect the budgetary positions. On this basis, the Commission made a positive proposal. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft to the second reading of the Riigikogu today and to propose that the second reading be stopped after voting on the amendments. When the second reading of the draft is closed, it is proposed that the deadline for the third reading be set at 11 December and that the draft be put to the final vote. This would be briefly all about the procedure of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U30	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U31	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! If the seventh amendment is supported, will the eighth one be voted on? And if it comes and it's also supported, what happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U32	Thank you, that's a good question! I went a little deeper into this, and I understand that if the seventh and eighth proposals are supported in this Chamber, then, of course, Valdo Randpere's proposed 0.8 promills will remain in law. If it does not find support and is voted down, then both proposals, seven and eight, will have to be voted down, and 0.5 per million proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs will remain in law. I get it, I think it's like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U33	Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U34	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable waitress! What were the main arguments why would a cruiser be drunk when he's at sea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U35	Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U36	That's a very good question! As a dry country rat, I don't understand it either. There is talk of some sort of historical tradition and right, etc. It's all very nice. I'm a conservative person myself, and I like tradition. But in the larger picture, we are saying that alcohol consumption should be limited. We take various measures against excessive alcohol consumption, we draw up development plans and so on, but let's say that for one part, of course, for a highly respected part of society, for captains, we make a small exception. If you ask me personally, I don't think it's right. I consider the 0.5 milligram maximum liquor offered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U37	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a further question. So who are the captains who want to drive drunk? How many are there, and from whom has this proposal come, that we are discussing it so seriously in a situation where we want it to be safer at sea and that children can travel there safely? Who are those on whose proposal has this recommendation come, and who are they trying to support here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U38	Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U39	Thank you, that is a very good question! I would like to stress once again that your colleague Valdo Randpere has made a specific proposal. Whoever he specifically represents, you have to ask him. However, both the representatives of the Ministry and the representatives of the Maritime Administration expressed such an opinion in the Commission that it would be useful to set this new rate in order to ensure overall safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U40	Thank you. I'm not very familiar with this debate, but I hear you said you think it's a 0.5-million booze right. As a dry country rat, do you think it's the right thing to do when you drive?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U41	Thank you, Jürgen Ligi! I'm in favour of zero tolerance for the driver. And if you ask me very deeply personally, I think the zero tolerance could apply anywhere on land, in the woods and at sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U42	Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U43	Thank you. Did you also discuss that historically, when the first cars came, no alcohol tests were done and the traffic was smaller? Is it also reasonable to go into traffic with, for example, 0.8 so that the economy activates, more excise duties are collected, car repairs are good, the health insurance fund has a higher turnover? It would still give a very strong economic impulse. Was it discussed that a historical approach could be used to allow alcohol to drive?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U44	Thank you. That's a very good question again. Very right, so we can extrapolate the historical ideas of today, yes and still. That list, Mr. Arrow, that you just presented here, may continue. But I will say once again that there were such discussions in the Commission and such a decision was reached. Once again: the Commission was not united, but with a vote of 5 in favour, 4 against, 1 abstention, the Valdo Randpere proposal went through.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U45	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U46	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say such a thing that, of course, you agree with me that the arguments put forward by the author and the author in order to make such a change were in fact unfounded. In recent years, there has been no accident within the scope of this law that would have been caused by alcohol. My real question, however, is how this has been resolved in neighbouring countries, such as Finland and Sweden. Does Estonia stand out in any way negatively in this regard, or are we suddenly much more stringent in one aspect of alcohol policy than in the area of alcohol in a much more restrictive country such as Finland and Sweden?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U47	Thank you. Good colleague Valdo! You know perfectly well what we look like. We're looking at averages. There are countries that are allowed to travel at sea and, by the way, on land with a higher promill, and there are countries that have zero tolerance. So whether it's 0.8 or 0.5, how to say it, it's not really going to move us up or down.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U48	Jürgen Ligi, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U49	Thank you. It's probably what Valdo knows, but I don't know. Listening to this debate, I really have a question about who you represent on the remote. Do you represent the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and justify it, or are you talking about what your personal opinion is? I would like the representative of the Commission to put forward arguments as to why the Commission so decided. Finally, I'm gonna ask you another question. What about this promill border in Russia? I've gotten smarter in this debate. What about this border in Russia, and how does it relate to your views and the Commission's views?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U50	Thank you. Once again, I represent the Commission. I will try to pass on the debate held in the Commission. Once again, there were votes in favour and against, the vote was very tense. They made some pretty compelling arguments, both for and against. The supporters of this old rate, 0.8 promilli, mentioned the so-called established practice and the fact that, fortunately, no special accidents have happened so far. The argument was the same, that we also look at those lands where less promille is allowed. If my memory isn't fooled, then in Russia, I think there's a zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U51	Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U52	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Am I right to understand that the amount of promills that are in force in the law is not mandatory for the captains?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U53	Thank you. You could ask some other rhetorical questions here. Yeah, it's true, it's not mandatory. But it's allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U54	Please, Valdo Randpere, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U55	Since I did not get an answer to the first question, it seemed that Tiit was eagerly forgetting the discussion that took place in the Commission, I would clarify my question and refresh your memory as well. One promill is allowed in Finland and one promill is also allowed in Sweden. So Estonia already has a slightly lower pro-milling rate. The reason I tabled this amendment was because I was approached by boat owners and boat owners, their representative organisations. Their argument was that the Ministry of Economic Affairs presented this draft by initiating false statistics, claiming that there have been huge accidents. Actually, no accidents have happened. That is why there was an argument that there is simply no point in making a change, there is no point in changing a situation that does not need to be changed. If I asked you a question, do you agree with my reasoning?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U56	Thank you, my good colleague. Yeah, your thinking makes sense. Similarly, we can take car traffic, for example. After all, there are countries that are allowed to travel on 0.5 or 0.8 promills; these countries belong to the European Union. We have a zero tolerance. Whether we stand out in the same way or in the opposite direction with this 0.8 or 0.5 is not, in my view, crucial in the current situation. We have to make our own decisions here, and you have the decision, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U57	Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U58	Thank you. For the sake of the Steinogram, I would like to clarify the issue of the fees paid by shipping companies. It was proposed to lower these fees on certain ships. The exact position of the Ministry of Finance was that they would agree to this if it did not reduce the revenue planned for the State for the following year. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications confirmed that their forecasts and analyses show that they will not reduce. We must trust the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications here. Was my explanation correct in that regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U59	Thank you. Yeah, that's exactly what I was trying to say, very briefly. The question was whether Deniss Borodich's proposal would change the budgetary positions and, based on the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance, the Commission received a notice that it would not. So it's financially normal, and we can reduce these charges on some ships, some of the shipowners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U60	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In recent weeks, there have been quite interesting public discussions on state reform and the fact that our administration is producing bureaucracy and our legislation has become so voluminous and, at times, kind of meaningless. Perhaps you also followed Jüri Raidla's speech at the Forum. Today I hear here that there is no problem at all, no accidents, smart captains may not even have a drink to 0.2. Perhaps the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs simply have too little work to do and they are making up their own work, but we are seriously dealing with this problem in this Chamber. Why don't we take a look at it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U62	Thank you, very good question and raised from an interesting point of view. First of all, I'm saying that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications isn't gonna miss a job. After all, more than 20 draft laws were sent to the Riigikogu. We have decided with the Commission that this number of draft laws cannot be so large. Why did MKM come up with a proposal to set a permissible rate of 0.5 per million? I would say that this is a preventive measure better feared than regretted afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U63	Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U64	Thank you. You have explained the Commission's position on promills by relying on tradition. It is known that if you go back in history, you may find that the smoke cups have also been taken by land transport. What is the overall position of the Economic Commission on alcohol consumption and the management of the means of transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U65	Thank you, Mrs Pakosta, very good question. Once again, the Commission discussed the matter very tensely and with a vote of 5 in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention, Mr Randper's proposal, i.e. 0.8 per million, remained in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U66	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In my opinion, the main argument in the Commission for not changing the prom was that there is no problem. Statistics show there's no problem. I understood that this is why the five members of the Commission were in favour of not changing the situation. Did I misunderstand in the Commission? You're talking about what happened on the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U68	Thank you, my good colleague in the Commission. You've got it very precisely, and that's how I tried to describe it. Yeah, if you want to, you can say that it's also a question of believing who believes the same way and who believes the other way around. The decision in the committee has been made, but the decision in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu is still pending.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U69	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U70	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm sure you discussed in the committee the draft government on how to deter all those Swedish and Finnish small ships who are accustomed to living according to normal laws from the territorial waters of Estonia. Was this discussed and what result was reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U71	Thank you. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U72	Thank you, my good colleague Rein Lang. That's a very bright question. This issue was not raised or discussed in this wording in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Please repeat, what is going to change in the Law on Safety at Sea, specifically as regards alcohol promills? What will change on the proposal of the Economic Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U74	Thank you! Once again, I would like to stress: the vote of the Committee on Economic Affairs would result in the current regulation, i.e. 0.8 per million. It's only about the prom. There are other questions in the draft, which have already been asked and clarified by the chairman of the committee. According to the current vote, 0.8 would remain valid. If the large hall decides otherwise, the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, i.e. 0,5, will remain valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U75	Please, Maimu Berg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U76	Good waitress! Are there any statistics on how many accidents have been caused by boatmen who have such a small amount of alcohol? Did you have that kind of statistics in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U77	Thank you. A representative of the Maritime Administration slightly corrected the statistics provided at the beginning and stated that, in recent years, tragic accidents have not been reported to have occurred because of the drunken, say, overslaughters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U78	Thank you. No third question can be asked. Do you have a procedural question, Valdo Randpere?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U79	We haven't agreed on anything. Please follow the procedure! We're moving on right now, we're not going to run things like this around here. If there are two questions, there are two questions. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U80	Yeah, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U81	Ask me a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U82	I will present it to you because we agreed before that if there were any direct lies, a procedural question could be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U83	Thank you, Mr President. I am trying to guess what the honourable colleague wanted to ask, because he also enlightened us about the content of this draft and what was discussed in the Commission. At least his information was that this 0,8 applies only to small ships and is not permitted for larger vessels. That is how I understood it, and Andre Sepp must have asked from this point of view. So I would ask for another answer on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U84	Thank you. That's right, that's right. All this promill talk only applies to small ships. There are, of course, separate rules for large ships. Normally, there is zero tolerance for large ships.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U85	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U86	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you to refresh your memory. Did it also sound in the Commission that there is no need to change things that are not a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U87	Thank you, dear colleague Lembit. There were both pros and cons. Yes, in this approach, there is no point in changing things that work already, there is a very strict logic. In the language of the mechanics, do not interfere with the mechanism as long as it is working. But once again, I personally think that I must not live up to my personal emotions here, that, in the preventive sense, the Ministry's proposal is still good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U88	Thank you. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I also remember the excitement that this issue caused in the Commission. Everyone takes this problem seriously, especially on the basis of statistics, that no accidents have happened yet. But maybe you will elaborate on Mr Randper's proposal, which I think has been clarified by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In fact, there was a change, which meant that small ships engaged in commercial transport would fall below that limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U90	Thank you! In fact, the original version of Valdo Randper's proposal was not quite correct in the Ministry's view and was therefore slightly reworded by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. That is why we need to decide today on two amendments. Yes, it is true that the correction was made specifically for commercial journeys. But here again, the position of the Maritime Administration is that it does not really matter whether commercial journeys are made, whether they are carried for money or if they are carried by friends and acquaintances, they are carried out for pleasure. It doesn't matter, an accident is an accident either way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U91	Thank you. Please, Kalmer Lain!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Did you also mention in the Commission what this good practice is for? Does the captain like to take it if he wants to beat the cold, or is it a so-called snowcake to do well at sea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U93	Thank you. Yes, they say that wise people always find a reason to use a little. That is not a question at all. It also says that the first cup must be poured into the ocean and so on. It's all great. Once again, traditions are beautiful things. There is, in my opinion, no such specific justification, a serious justification for why alcohol should still be consumed. Yeah, I agree, it's cold at sea. By the way, it's cold in the woods. I'm a hunter myself, and I know it's gonna be pretty cold standing in the woods for two hours. I don't know where it's colder, either in the sea or in the woods. So how do you know if you can't stay on earth, but at sea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U94	Valdo Randpere has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U95	I certainly had a great help in chairing the hearing. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] We're moving on. Please, Peep Aru, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U96	It's seriously procedural this time. I'm just gonna have to point out that I'm a full-bodied boat captain.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U97	Thank you, Mr President. This time it is not a procedural matter, it is a matter of substance. Good waitress, did the Commission also discuss a compromise proposal to make a church in the middle of a village, or to set a rate of 0.65 per million?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U98	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U99	Thank you, Mr. Understood! You can do all kinds of mathematical operations, you can take the square root and the cube root of anything. This is a very nice approach, but it was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U100	Thank you. When we made the captain's permissions on the recreational craft, we were discussing during the so-called lessons that if we were to drive a Beamer at sea, be drunk at 0,8 per cent and reach the shore, what will happen then.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U101	We didn't discuss the floaters. But thank you, that's a good question! By the way, did you notice that the law also contains a separate regulation for the jet ski managers, which is twice as harsh? This has not been contested by anyone, even though I think the jet ski company is quite strong in our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U102	Thank you. Now there's no more questions. Tiit Tammsaar, thank you very much. We're opening negotiations. Please, Thomas Tõniste! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U103	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On this draft, I really do not understand what the problem is. For me, it is quite incredible that if we move towards a sober, more rational society, and that also at sea, at the same time, there are arguments that statistics do not show that there have been any serious accidents, there is no problem. It's kind of a taunt at times, so why can't you drink and stuff? I would point out that this bill actually reduces the level of alcohol content. I think there's a big difference between 0.8 and 0.5. The fact that there have been no major accidents is happiness. There are many dangerous situations where drunk boat drivers, I say, are drunk at 0.8 milligrams, putting the lives of children and fellow passengers at risk. That is why I think the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to bring this threshold down is correct. They ask what's gonna change. If we think there are captains who don't understand that they're responsible for their traveling companions, and think they're able to react as quickly as they can when they're drunk and decide as sober, then let's go. At the same time, if there is a need to increase excise duty, all the hard-on-alcohol fighters will be. I don't understand it that way. In any case, I do not support this proposal by Mr Randper, which has been amended by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and neither do our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U104	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U105	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't gonna give a speech here by myself, but since the discussion got hot, I'm gonna explain it a little bit more. I'm a full-bodied man myself, and I'm a boat captain. I tabled this amendment because the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had to amend one regulation with which there had been no problem, and it had to be amended with false arguments. They provided the Chair of the Economic Commission with some safety statistics on accidents on the waterways, which are not covered by the legislation under discussion. This law regulates shipping routes and inland waterways. Bringing in the accidents that have happened to people who have gone drunk to put in fishing nets in the course of their predatory fishing is neither right nor reasonable. We do not need to respond to this with a legislative amendment. Personally, I could say in the same way in this case that if you started changing, why not set zero instead of reducing 0.8 to 0.5. My colleague, a sailor, and I think the liquor dealer, said here that there is a huge dangerous situation in the port's territory, that children's lives are at risk, and that was also the case in the Commission. They're rumors. This is a subjective opinion with no statistical background. Looking at our neighbouring Finland, which is much more restrictive in its alcohol policy, they respect this maritime tradition, they let it happen. Once again, this is not an order, this 0.8 is a limit that should not be crossed. I think it's hypocritical in this sense to discuss that we're now bringing the rate from 0.8 to 0.5. If we really are against keeping the old sea tradition in the first place, we will bring the rate to zero. Then we are really a sober country and then our position is somehow justified. There's no point in going into one situation if there's no need for it. Because the reality is that last year there was an accident in Estonia within the meaning of this law and there have been two accidents this year. In none of these cases has alcohol been involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U106	Thank you very much. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U107	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Commission, I was among the five who voted in favour of maintaining the provisions currently in force in the law. Basically because we should not change things that are not a problem. Why are we making laws that don't have a problem? We have laws that really need to be changed to remove the bottlenecks in our lives and activities. I also said in the Commission that this alcohol prom was being attacked because a decision was taken in a town to place liquor stores, or at least some of them. Now the official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs will also write in such a line in the bill that we will take out a prom from there that then the Riigikogu has done a serious job and the officials have done their job and one thing has been regulated again. You shouldn't really treat things like that. This is exactly how I understood it, that there is one line in the bill and that we are put to work and discuss where there is no problem. I have also sailed on a small ship and I have the papers of the manager of a recreational ship, but I have not seen either Estonia, Sweden, Finland or America as a problem. Then why are we going to change this thing heroically? I understand the Woman who said twice today from this remote control that he's a hunter and why a hunter has to be sober when the captain can be drunk. Nobody's drunk by 0.8. And the hunter needs to be sober, because talking about gun safety is more than a matter of safety on the wheel of a small ship. I tried to explain to you why I was among that five. But you all decide for yourselves whether we do things because an official has written something in or because somebody is doing something about it and doing something to make it stand out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U108	Thank you. Please, Tiit Tammsaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U109	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said so much, but I just want to say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party that we think this bill is good. So what if it's a small step, but it's a small step in the right direction? Once again, if we do, we could say beautiful words, often even empty words on the subject of combating alcoholism, alcohol abuse, etc., we are also wasting public money, so why are we now leaving some of the people, though very respectable, to some sort of privilege? I think that the draft proposed by the Ministry and the reduced promills foreseen there are the right steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U110	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Neither did I have any intention of speaking, but listening to this parade of hypocrisy, the idea arose that for future generations the verbatim was also important. I did not ask the waitress whether the Commission was discussing how to deter Finnish and Swedish boat owners from the territorial waters of Estonia, who are already used to sailing in the territorial waters of Estonia under the Schengen conditions. There is no artificial fight against alcoholism in these countries, as our Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has proposed. I'd actually like to tell you about a little episode of my own life. In Seattle, U.S.A., I just went to the boat shop as an interested person. I looked around a bit, and then I asked the salesman what I could use as a foreign citizen to buy a boat from you, and what kind of papers should I have to start with this traffic in Seattle Bay? They looked at me like a madman, and they finally told you to give me the money, take the boat and drive away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U112	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 5 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 7. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U113	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U114	Thank you. We're preparing for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 7, which has been made by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 39 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U115	Thank you. As we have heard above, these amendments are interlinked and essentially similar. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U116	Thank you. Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 8 made by Mr Randpere. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take the substance into account. Please take a stand and vote. 26 delegates voted in favour, 39 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 is from Deniss Borodich; the lead committee has taken the substance into account. Amendment 10 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 12 from the Economic Commission, the position of the commission is to take full account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 is from the Economic Commission; the position of the commission is to take full account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 738. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U117	We're going to the next item. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please address the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U118	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Law Enforcement Act 752 prepared a second reading by the Legal Affairs Committee on 1 September this year. By the deadline of 26 November, a proposal had been received from my colleague Jüri Morozov. We had a debate in the Commission on this amendment. The amendment concerns amendments to § 67 and 68 of the Law Enforcement Act. Its contents are as follows: Under the current legislation, the organiser of the meeting is obliged to inform the police of the meeting. In some cases, in turn, the police are obliged to inform the ambulance service provider and the local rescue service about the event. The owners of properties bordering the territory of the event are currently outside the list to which the police are obliged to notify, although the usual use of their buildings may be disrupted due to the event. For this reason, Mr Morozov suggested that the wording of subsections 67 (1) (2) and 68 (4) be amended. The proposal is that in addition to the ambulance service provider and the rescue facility, the prefecture is also obliged to send the relevant notification to the holders of buildings or facilities located in the immediate vicinity of the meeting place. The Commission supported this amendment: 6 members were in favour, 1 against. A representative of the Ministry of Justice also approved the proposal. The Commission adopted the following procedural decisions: to place a draft of 752 on the agenda for the plenary session today, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading and to put it to the final vote on 17 December. All procedural decisions were adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U119	Thank you very much. Tõnis Kõiv has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, It is certainly not just alcohol consumption that disturbs people in public spaces. These distractions are varied, and their effect extends to people at home, whether they are car alarms, hard music, or barking dogs. That list would be pretty long. There is certainly a role here for local authorities, which can help people to avoid these distractions. Sometimes it is also necessary to clarify what exceeds the tolerance limit and what is not. As former head of local government and currently chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, do you see any obstacle to local governments not being able to draw up instructions for people to react to various disturbances in order to get rid of them under law enforcement or any other law? Is there an obstacle or isn't there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U121	There is certainly nothing to prevent a local government from instructing its territory's residents on how to behave in one situation or another. Absolutely not! This amendment, which we have spoken about, does not concern relations between local governments and residents. This obliges the local prefecture to inform not only the ambulance but also the rescuers of the buildings or facilities located in the immediate vicinity of the event. This may prevent interference with the use of buildings or structures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U122	Please, Innar Mäesalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U123	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have this question. As we know, the law amending the Law on Law Enforcement should restore the former situation, in which society, in protest to a lesser or greater extent, would have to change. The question is this: as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, do you know what prompted this draft to perhaps restore the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U124	Thank you. As far as I know, the motivation was a very painful reaction from the public.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U125	Thank you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U126	Thank you. Dear colleague, you mentioned that a representative of the Ministry of the Interior supported this bill. Do you remember the position at the Home Office when we discussed the draft that we approved in June?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U127	This support today concerned, in particular, the amendment tabled by Mr Morozov. As regards the amendment of the Law Enforcement Act as a whole, it was developed in the Ministry. But Bill 752 has also been supported by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U128	Thank you. Please, Innar Mäesalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U129	Thank you. On the basis of the answer to my previous question, I also ask you that you, as the head of the Committee on Legal Affairs, also dealt with another draft relating to the subject of partnership. In this case too, the reaction of society in one direction was very overwhelming. However, it was disregarded. Can you logically put these two things together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U130	Yeah, maybe. Perhaps there is a logical explanation that one draft concerned the private sphere of people in particular, while the other concerned public order. And in matters of public order, public interest is certainly more important than matters concerning the private sphere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U131	No further questions. Thank you, Neeme the Great! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the draft law under discussion has received a great deal of attention in society. It started at the beginning of the previous term, the implementing provisions were adopted at the beginning of this year. Before that, drinking in public space was forbidden for years, and policemen fined it. But, as my colleague pointed out today, there was no answer why, for example, by having a picnic in Kadriorg Park, a glass of wine could not be allowed. Why can't we do a town romance that seems normal? I guess there were these romantics in this room too, many of them voted in favour of allowing it because they could not answer the question of why a reasonable amount of alcohol could not be consumed in a public place, be it at the celebration of the new year on the town square or at any other festive event, such as the anniversary of the wedding on the beach. That is what all those who do not like to live in a world where harsh commands and prohibitions apply. Unfortunately, the changed order in society brought with it a number of unanswered questions. It may have been the best thing to do, but it turned out the way it always did. In my opinion, the situation was well summed up by a mother with a baby carriage who said that if you drank before you were shy and secretly behind the shop, you would now drink confidently, with your boobs puffed, in front of the store. In a word, it became clear that there are people in our society who were kept from raging on the streets of the Old Town at night with an open bottle of drinks only by a strict ban on the law. Some of Europe's largest alcohol users are often completely convinced themselves that partying with these open bottles on street corners or parks does not bother others, but on the contrary, fellow citizens enjoy it. We find it easy to stick to such perceptions. With Estonians, nine out of ten believe that compatriots drink too much, but only one in ten admits that perhaps he drinks too much sometimes. It was probably too much hoped that we would have a European understanding of our rights, obligations and freedoms. And as usual, just a few tar drops will be enough to ruin the whole honey pot. Unfortunately, in a country where excessive alcohol consumption is a serious problem, it is early to talk about a cultural health challenge with a pleasant community in public spaces. I am therefore pleased that the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic have drawn their own conclusions from the response of society and have listened to the opinion of the people. It has been realized that there are too many among us who can be made to obey only in the language of strict orders. As a good friend of mine said: the biggest mistake of this year, the biggest mistake was the amendment of the law of law, so that there was a chance to start drinking in public, in the hands of a bottle of vodka, around and in public. That's what we're gonna change now. I am pleased to say that Estonia's politics has taken a major step forward and it is bold to admit that if something has been done wrong, we will take two steps back, we will fix it, and then we will take three steps forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U133	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have one amendment to review, made by Jüri Morozov, member of the Riigikogu, and the proposal of the commission is to take this fully into account. We have completed the second reading of Bill 752. This was also the proposal of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U134	The next item is the continuation of the second reading of Bill 676 - the Rescue Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft law on Thursday 4 December and launched one amendment. It was about the title of the bill. Previously, the title was "Proposal for the Salvation Act, Police and Border Guard Act, Rescue Services Act and Amendment of State Border Act', but it was proposed to amend it and formulate the title of the bill as follows: 'Proposal for the amendment of the Salvation Act and other laws'. This was fully taken into account by the Governing Commission. On 18 November, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session on 9 December, that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 17 December 2014 and that a final vote be proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U136	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U137	Thank you. Good colleague! The Rescue Board may complain, demolish, etc. without the consent of the holder. But could you comment on the restoration of things to the person on whose property something was demolished or dug so that the Rescue Board could carry out its duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U138	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. As we know, for everything the state does under coercion, there is a compensation and restoration procedure established by the Government of the Republic. It is meant to be, and everything is done according to this order.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U139	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. There was a proposal to amend the bill, so let's review it. This has been done by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second reading of Bill 676 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U140	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U141	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Centre Party has initiated draft amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act 741. Its aim is to increase the chances for young people to be involved in the local government council election process, and so directly. Currently, the Youth Work Act gives the right to set up youth councils with local governments, or municipalities and municipalities. This is limited to the active participation of young people in local government activities, as they do not have a direct output to contribute to the decision-making process. We want to amend § 47 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act and formulate it as follows: 'The Volikogu can set up both permanent and ad hoc committees. The chairmen and vice-chairmen of the committees shall be elected from among the members of the council. Each council and youth council member shall be entitled to belong to at least one commission. The other members of the committee shall be approved by the chairman of the committee. " So short is our proposal. Thus, every council on the permanent commission, if young people so wish, will be their representative. As a result, young people are already able to directly influence decisions concerning local life. That is all, to sum up briefly on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U142	Thank you. You have questions too. Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! What is the opinion of youth organisations themselves, such as the Estonian Youth Work Centre? And what's the opinion of the local government associations? Perhaps, in brief, the arguments that have so far been the main reasons why young people are not involved in council committees? Why must things be improved by changing the law? But first of all, I expect an answer to what youth associations think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U144	No one has yet asked the youth organisations for an opinion. From the day we handed over this bill, very little time has passed. The representatives of youth organisations have expressed some position, but it has been their own position, not that of associations. There has been no research or analysis of the latter. However, I am quite convinced that young people want to be involved in committees and even in the decision-making process. This is also confirmed by the debate that took place in the conference room on civic day. There, young people directly expressed the view that the youth council was not enough. Their wish is to have a say through the council committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U145	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U146	Thank you. Good colleague Tarmo! Recently, it has been confirmed at all times that there is a need to increase young people's participation in politics. There is also talk of reducing the electoral age, which requires a change in the constitution and creates major debates and tensions in society. So I'm afraid this is going to be a big war. However, it seems to me that the draft you are presenting gives young people a real opportunity to express their wishes and opinions in local politics. Do you think that such a legislative amendment would take these tensions off and achieve the objective of trying to change the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U147	Young people's associations themselves do not want to change the constitution and reduce the election age to 16 years of age. This subject has already been studied very briefly. At the conference already mentioned, members of the board of the Estonian Society of Social Teachers clearly opposed the idea of lowering the elections to 16 years of age. There is no need to amend the Constitution. The content of our draft is quite different. If the Constitution is changed so that young people can choose when they are 16 years old, their only right is to give their vote to some politicians, and they can no longer have any more say, because there is no representation on the council. They only get this active right, but they don't have a passive right. So this is a completely different approach. Our proposal does not mean that we must go to the amendment of the Constitution. It simply, specifically, logically and quickly provides an opportunity to involve young people in local life. I think this is a very necessary step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U148	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I don't have any information about how many local governments have youth councils. This bill provides for members of the youth council to be able to participate in the work of the local government council. But how will it be in those municipalities where there is no youth council? Are these young people not going to have that chance? I assume that everyone should be guaranteed the right to participate in the work of the local government council.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U150	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U151	Thank you, dear colleague George. A very good question, and it is a very good answer. Why isn't there a youth council everywhere? One reason is that in some parts, it is formed, but its output is only a talk level. We want to activate young people. You, too, Jüri, could help to set up a youth council in the municipality where you live and work. Through this, an additional vote will come into some permanent Commission and the voices of young people will also be heard in the decision-making process. The absence of this has so far been the reason why young people are not actively involved. Their rights are limited; they cannot directly participate in everyday life. For example, the council committee decides whether or not to build a playground. Young people can only express their opinions in the youth council, but they do not have an outlet for decision-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In answering Mr Sepa's question of whether the position of youth associations is also known, you said that this has not been studied. However, we had one document to use in the committee, which is the position of the Estonian Youth Association on the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act 741. Document confirmed by decision of the Board of the Estonian Youth Association on 24.11.2014. It clearly states that the draft will not be supported. Were you wrong in your response to Andre Sepa?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U153	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U154	Good colleague! I wasn't wrong. I replied that this board's position did not express the position of Estonian youth. As far as I know, whoever made this statement belongs to a youth assembly. This cannot be considered to be an objective position. To find out, research and analysis are needed. As you well remember, a good colleague, there was a debate on this in the conference room. There young people expressed their will to have the law expanded and their representation on the permanent committees of the council. This was the direct desire of young people, not the position of some politically motivated youth associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Are there any obstacles now that prevent young people from participating in the local council committees? As far as I know, progressive committees involve both young and old people as experts and as members of the committee. Do you see there's a hindrance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U156	The obstacle is that, as far as I know, under 18 years of age cannot always be part of the Commission. Through the Youth Council, they could be involved. This would encourage young people and give them the motivation to participate in local life; they would no longer be just a chat room. Local politicians should also be motivated to involve young people. The youth representative at the council is, in my opinion, very good. He could express his views directly and behind him is the support of the Youth Council. This is the way to involve young people and develop democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U157	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U158	Good manager! Good waitress! I have a proposition. This law should clearly state that when a local government council is elected, the youth council should also be elected everywhere. There must be no situation where it is in one municipality and there is no one in the other. The second proposal is that the membership of all council committees should be almost half as large. If the adult council is 19 members, then the youth council should also have 19 members. All 19 members should have a seat on the Commission. And so far, the committee is set up by its chairman, or rather, by a vote on the composition proposed by it. Now you want to change this order a little bit, and some people get a committee without the chairman's proposal. Isn't that a little mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U159	This is definitely not a mistake. And not all the members of the youth council can be on committees, but in each committee they can appoint a representative. The Youth Council itself chooses to represent them in the Committee on Economic Affairs, for example. For example, they propose that they be represented in the Committee on Economic Affairs by Aivar Kokk. Not everyone gets a committee, but they send their democratically elected representative to each committee. It's as simple as that. This is the opportunity. And if there is no youth council, local politicians will work to make it happen. It's an additional force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U160	Kalmer Lain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Before I ask you a question, I'll make a little introduction. In the city of Jõgeva, the Youth Council has been working for three years and has done so relatively passively. We have written in the Statute the possibility that representatives of the youth council can also be present on permanent committees, which has not been used. Why didn't you interview young people about whether they wanted to be involved in public affairs before you submitted the bill? Why do you need this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U162	It's good to have a youth council in Jõgeva. But, dear colleague Kalmer, the reason they are not active is because they have no output. If the Jõgeva Council had a youth representative on each committee, they would be much, many times more active. They have no output. The aim of this draft is to make young people more active by involving them in the decision-making process. If the vote on the budget also has the voice of young people, then their goal has been achieved. The reason why they're not active, why there's so little active is because they don't have an output. In general, young people are said to have grown more mature. If so, they must be given the opportunity to speak with them. I think it's very simple. There is no need to change the constitution for this. As I said, the amendment of the constitution by lowering the voting age means that a young person is simply a passive hitchhiker. He's being told to give me a voice, politician! I'll see how I walk around with that voice later. But according to this bill, a young person can participate in the decision-making process until the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U163	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, good colleague. I understand that the draft concerns only the involvement of young people at local level in the decision-making process. How do you feel, perhaps it is worth thinking about increasing young people's participation in decision-making at national level? As we know, roughly 75% of the functions of the public sector are decided at government and Riigikogu level. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U165	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U166	If there are good suggestions, it is worth discussing them. But I am firmly opposed to the fact that, in the case of such a simple matter as involving young people, we are beginning to change the constitution, as our ladies and gentlemen in the Riigikogu are trying to push through. Is it really justified that because of our very clear objective, which can be achieved by simple steps, we are going to change the country's constitution? Should it be so easy to change the constitution? Is that an argument? Yes, I understand the logic that a party may receive additional votes from young people, but that would force them to give nothing in return.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U167	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, Listening to your answers to my colleagues' questions, I have a bit of a twosome feeling. The draft you have submitted is written out of the logic that more support must be given to young people's willingness and practical opportunities to participate in politics. That means you trust young people very much. At the same time, you are very arrogant about the positions of organised youth associations, for example, the negative position of the youth associations association that has already been read out here on this particular draft. Isn't there some kind of illogical thing to play here? Young people have explained that they do not need such a solution, but you say that it may be a personal opinion of one person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U168	Good questioner! On the contrary, we listen very much to the opinions of young people. When we had young people in this conference room, they assured us that they wanted Parliament to deliver to the permanent committees of the councils. In your case, the negative position is limited to the opinion of the board of only one youth association and, as far as I know, one member of that board is linked to the youth organisation of one party. So this is a politically motivated position. No studies have been conducted. And, as I said, the Society of Social Teachers is strongly opposed to humiliating elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U169	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U170	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Your answer to one of the earlier questions was that the council committee should not currently include persons under 18 years of age. What law does this claim rely on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U171	It's not based on any law. This is based on the fact that local government councils can apply from the age of 18. That's where it comes from. If you, my good colleague Kalev, know some examples that there are persons under the age of 18 on permanent committees, let me know. I consulted a few specialists who have worked in the municipality for a long time, and they said that this logic is true: this is not the way young people can be on committees. But if it were legalized through the youth council, it would be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U172	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Let me give an example, which in some ways is an alternative to the example of Jõgeva. The Youth Parliament has existed in Narva for 15 years. It's a legitimate unit the city's power is counting on. A few years ago, representatives of the Youth Parliament were invited to a local council committee, but they were only committees that dealt with the youth field either way or in some cases. They were not invited to the other committees. How do you appreciate if this bill is passed, will it open the door to other committees for young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U174	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. It was the representatives of the Narva Youth Parliament that proposed in the Riigikogu conference hall that this law be extended so that they can actually participate in Narva's life. Eldar, this really provides an opportunity for them to be involved in every Commission. If there is a youth council, they can delegate their representative to any committee you have in Narva. I don't know how many you have, either five or ten, it's up to the local government. This, however, gives young people the opportunity to take part in decisions on whether money is being channelled to, for example, youth parks or somewhere else. This, of course, motivates political participation. There is nothing that motivates them today, because politicians have severely restricted their decision-making powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U175	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U176	Thank you. Based on the previous answer, I wonder whether you really consider the largest umbrella organisation of Estonian youth associations, which covers the largest number of associations, to be manipulated by individual individuals. Are you calling into question this organisation's still very well-established partnership with the country? After all, it has been a democratic alliance with young people in every way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U177	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U178	Absolutely not. My argument is that they have not carried out any relevant studies or analyses. They cannot thus say that all youth organisations support the position of the Bureau. A young man also admitted it. In fact, he expressed his personal position there, not the position of the organization. If you've misunderstood, I'm sorry, but that's definitely not the case. They should express the position of the Union as a whole, not just the views of three or four persons on the Governing Board. They cannot represent the whole structure, the whole organisation, unless they have the assessments of the sub-organisations and their members.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U179	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! At present, the local government council committee can also take persons who are not yet 18 years of age on a proposal from the chairman of the committee. The Commission can even take people who are not permanent residents of a specific local government. Examples include summer home owners who are specialists in a particular field. What, then, is the current draft going to change and give us more?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U180	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U181	He's changing that we can involve young people under the age of 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Good speaker! I think it's a very good bill. But I'm gonna ask you a question like that. What do you think is the main argument why the government, along with young people, is opposed to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U183	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U184	I think the main reason is that the government has initiated a constitutional change. They want 16-year-olds to have the right to vote. But that's the limit of their youth's right, they can't be active on their own. They can't be candidates. So this is a completely different approach. We do not want to give young people only the right to vote so that we can get the vote from them. We also offer young people something in return. This is a completely different solution, which does not require amendment of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U185	I was here listening to questions and answers. I want to know if I'm getting this right. I would like to assure you that this is a matter of political balance. Young people are given the opportunity to take part in local elections, that is their right. On the other hand, with your bill, you want to create such a legal balance that you give them the right to act. They can not only choose but also act for the municipality through local government committees. I'm talking about the balance right now. Is that our greatest goal? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U186	Yeah, good colleague, you get it right. Young people must be given a real opportunity to participate in the decision-making process with their vote. Let's say that the permanent committee is a seven-member, so it's one of seven. I think that youth associations will then be given more consideration and respect for their proposals. That is the aim of ensuring that young people's actions are not fictitious, that they do not tinker in their own corner, but that they are publicly involved and can participate in all the decision-making processes that concern them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U187	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I would like to ask Kalev Lillo, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U188	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, 741 was discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 2 December. In addition to the members and alternates of the committee, Tarmo Tamm, representative of the initiator of the draft, Kaie Küngas, Head of the Regional Administration Department of the Ministry of Interior, Martin Kulp, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department, and Kuldar Adel, coordinator of the participation bodies of the Estonian Youth Association. To begin with, Tarmo Tamm gave an overview of this bill, as he has just done here before us. Next, we asked for the position of the representative of the Ministry of Interior, and Kaie Küngas presented the opinion of the entire government. He noted that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, as the proposed amendments did not have the expected effect. He also said that the current legal framework would allow young people to be involved in the work of the committees. Kuldar Adel, the representative of the Youth Associations Association, then took the floor, who noted that the Estonian Youth Association did not support the draft, and this was not at the board level, but at the personal level, as was argued here earlier. He explained that although the draft law gives freedom on the one hand, it can also be interpreted as an obligation on local authorities. Youth work must be done on a voluntary basis. He also pointed out that in some municipalities young people were already successfully involved in the work of council committees. There followed a relatively long debate, which can be divided into blocks. One of the key issues was the age we are talking about. How young people could participate in the work of councils? Tarmo Tamme's story was that since he was 16. As a representative of the Kuldar Adel Youth Association, young people from the age of 14 generally belong to youth associations. In the Republic of Estonia, according to the law, young people are understood to be between the ages of 7 and 26. The heated debate around this age was relatively long and, in fact, we did not reach a final view on which age group this draft was intended to be exactly. We also did not receive a full answer as to whether it is currently possible to participate in the work of councils under the age of 18 or whether it is prohibited. We had different views. The second set of questions concerned the self-determination of municipalities. When they are given the obligation to involve youth councils in the work of the council, this is an intervention in the right of self-determination of the municipalities. It was also discussed how many youth councils we have. In response, we found that there are around 70 organised forms, but there are also non-organized youth councils involved in the work of councils. We also reached the essence of the problem in our debate, which Mr Tamm pointed out in his presentation. The main objective is to involve young people more in the work of local governments; they must be able to speak. And it actually sounded like this collusion wasn't stuck behind some bullshit. It all depends on whether the local government leaders want to work with young people or not. In places where there is a desire to involve young people, they are also taken into account and can speak. Where there is no wish, it is not possible to create it by law. Finally, we took procedural decisions: to put a draft of 741 on the plenary agenda on 9 December (this was a consensual decision); to appoint Kalev Lillo (also a consensual decision) a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs as rapporteur and to propose that the draft 741 be rejected. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U189	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U190	Thank you. Good colleague! You said that the Government of the Republic, the representative of the Youth Alliance and most of your committee were against this bill. Can you name it? Was there anyone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U191	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U192	I'm a little embarrassed, I didn't quite understand the question. Do you mean the way the voices split? Five members of the Commission were in favour of rejection, one person opposed. If you are asking what attitudes were at all, the Estonian Youth Association has taken the view that it does not support this draft by decision of its board. The Government of the Republic has also made a decision not to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U193	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Today's agenda includes two draft laws amending the Local Government Organisation Act. We've accepted one, we're discussing the other. For me, too, the autonomy of local government is very important. In your report you said that one of the reasons why the draft cannot be supported is that it should not interfere with the self-determination of local authorities to organise the work of the council. On today's third item, you did not respect this and thought that it should be written in law how the chairmen and vice-chairmen of committees should be chosen. Why can't you write in the law the point that the Central Party Group has proposed? Why do you treat the two drafts in a single day so differently from the autonomy of the local government, the right to self-determination?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U194	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U195	Thank you for your question. I expressed the Commission's position, and the Commission considered that what was proposed in the draft constituted interference with the competence of the municipality, which we do not want.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U196	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I also ask about the position of the Government of the Republic. What do you think SEs 703 and 741 have in common? One requires a change of constitution, the other offers young people the opportunity to take part in decision-making. Why would it be an obstacle to our bill being able to move forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U197	You are trying very hard to get into the debate on another draft amending the Constitution. But we did not discuss this draft in the committee. We have discussed the draft that is the subject of this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U198	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U199	Thank you. You didn't answer. This is the position of the Government of the Republic, item 3. If the Commission does not discuss it and does not rely on it, what does the Commission do at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U200	Yes, indeed, there is the position of the Minister of Justice, where the third point refers to the draft you mentioned. But once again, we did not discuss this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-09_U201	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that draft 741 should be rejected at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote against the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 16 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 741 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Dear colleagues, the eighth item has been dealt with. Our trial today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 12 noon.
