ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 12th working week. I am also honoured to welcome our guests from the Lithuanian Parliament, who are sitting up in the balcony of the press and diplomatic corps. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of six colleagues, I have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas on the poverty and quality of life in Estonia. The recent European Employment and Social Development Report shows that poverty among the working age population is getting worse. It is considered that the gradual reduction in unemployment is not enough, and the focus must also be on halting the constant rise in the pay margins. You all know that there are thousands of people in Estonia who do full-time work, but they earn a very low wage, from which taxes are also deducted. So they are in a situation where they have also been put into poverty by the wages they receive for their full-time employment. In the European Union, wage poverty is measured scientifically. People who cannot afford basic things, be they warm rooms, the opportunity to eat fish and meat on a regular basis, buy new clothes, not used clothes and accept visitors. This survey showed that a quarter of people in Estonia who work cannot afford any of these things. In order to get a warm room, they must ask for income support from the municipality. 63% of people at work cannot afford any of these things. That is why we have four questions for the Prime Minister. We are convinced that until the people of Estonia are properly paid, emigration will not be sent. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau will decide on its further procedure. Now, let's do the presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. Let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U4	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group supports the adoption of a draft law amending the Water Act. Changing the law will undoubtedly improve the law. The amended Water Act would allow the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, inter alia, to initiate a building permit procedure for a sports or recreation facility with a surface of up to 60 square metres without permanently connecting to the shore serving the bathing beach and also to grant a building permit. He doesn't have to say no anymore while he's in the middle of a county plan. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the Minister may, for example, initiate the procedure for placing an elephant for children in Pärnu beach water, despite the ongoing county planning. Unfortunately, Pärnu does not change the questioning of opinions in the draft law amending the Water Act concerning the so-called resort elephant. Paragraph 227 (2) of the Water Act unambiguously states that the holder of the building permit proposes to initiate or not to initiate the building permit procedure after obtaining the opinion of the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Maritime Administration, the Aviation Administration and the National Heritage Board. This wording has remained the same in the draft proposed by the Government. For the Pärnu resort elephant, all the arrangements are in place. For example, the Authority gave the elephant its coordination as early as 18 October 2013. At the same time, the relationship between the Authority and, for example, the Ministry of Defence with the resort elephant is quite questionable. Moreover, all the bodies mentioned in the law are government agencies, so the legislator regulates how the government must move documents within itself. Probably because of the change of ministers, but perhaps also because of the desire to change the law as little as possible to solve the issue of the resort elephant, the requirement to seek the opinion of the Air Administration and the Ministry of Defence will remain valid for the construction of possible new elephants in the water. I believe that the law could leave the opinion of the authors open, all the more so as the law requires that opinions be sought not by the applicant, but by the building permit processor, which is by law the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It would make sense to remove all institutions by name from the law and to formulate the provision more abstractly: that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications asks for the opinion of the authorities concerned. In this way, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications can decide more flexibly whose opinion may be necessary. The so-called resort elephant is just one example. The Reform Party supports the adoption of the bill to amend the Water Act, but recommends that the government begin to develop a less bureaucratic water law immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U6	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let's start preparing for the final vote. I will put draft 611 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 79 members of the Riigikogu in favour, there is no one against and one person is impartial. Thus, the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U7	Let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Medicines, the Law on State Fees and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. Margus Tsahkna, vice-chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, please. Quiet, please! There's a lot of noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 March this year, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to initiate a draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act, the State Tax Act and the Health Services Organisation Act. Its theme is...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U9	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, may I ask for silence in the Chamber or not? There's a buzz in every row of the bench right now. I beg you! Good waitress, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U10	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a bill that has the right long name, but it concerns the provision of pharmacy services. This composition of the Riigikogu certainly remembers that the provision of pharmacy services, as well as the subject of restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies, has repeatedly been the subject of discussion in this Chamber. The Chancellor of Justice challenged the constitutionality of the current restrictions. The reason for this draft has also been the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court on 9 December 2013, which essentially lifted the restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies and gave it six months to enforce its decision. Thus, on 9 June 2014, the Supreme Court's decision abolishing the restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies enters into force. The Supreme Court declared the current restrictions unconstitutional, based on the principle of proportionality in restricting the freedom to conduct a business. Now the task of the Riigikogu has been before the Social Affairs Committee and the entire Riigikogu to develop possible new solutions. The starting position has been to ensure that the pharmacy service is available as evenly as possible throughout Estonia. Even in rural areas, the proper quality of the pharmacy service must be guaranteed. Such regulation would also comply with the principle of freedom to conduct a business laid down in the Constitution. The Committee on Social Affairs has worked hard on this issue over the last 2.5 years. We have met with various stakeholders and produced a report on this. This work was led by Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee at the time. We also ordered a study on access to pharmacy services in rural areas and measures to support this service, which have been implemented by local authorities or anyone in the interest of access to the service. A specific draft has been born as a result of all this long-term work and, as has been said, on 10 March this year, the Committee on Social Affairs reached the delivery of this draft. The brief summary of the contents of the draft is as follows: The aim of the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act, the State Fees Act and the Health Services Organisation Act is to create a solid, effective and patient-centred legal and functional framework for integrating the pharmacy sector as a primary part of the healthcare system into another health care system. This is a structural change in this respect so that pharmacists become health professionals. The pharmacy service will be part of the health care service. This already changes the nature of the pharmacy service: ordinary forms of business become part of the health care service. In order to ensure the long-term sustainable development of the pharmacy sector and also in the public interest, i.e. in the interests of human health, this is, in the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, necessary. This is the purpose of giving health care professionals the status of health care workers and pharmacists, as a health policy decision, and the introduction of qualified ownership regulation for pharmacies. Its content is similar to that of family doctors. The bill provides that, for a certain period of time, we are breaking down current vertical integration and the owners of pharmacies at least 51% should become pharmacists. Logic is that if the pharmacist is a health care worker and has control over the pharmacy, the state can also have greater possibilities to regulate the content and availability of the pharmacy service throughout Estonia. In order to ensure the independence of the pharmacist, to eliminate vertical integration, to improve the competitive situation and to ensure the balanced development of the pharmacy sector, there is a restriction that a pharmacy may be held by the head of a pharmacy either as a self-employed person or in the form of a company where the majority of the participation belongs to the head of the pharmacy. In order to avoid excessive accumulation of pharmacies, the draft states the principle that one pharmacy may operate in one building. We have foreseen a number of measures in this draft. For example, to improve access to medicines in areas with low demand, we want to introduce a pharmacy bus and introduce regulation of pharmacists' start-ups. The idea of a pharmacy bus is that in sparsely populated areas where it is not economically viable to run a pharmacy, people can buy pharmacy goods from this bus. The purpose of the basic allowance is the same as that of the starting allowance for a family doctor. If a family doctor or other young doctor decides to work in a rural area and has worked there for a certain time, the state will pay him the starting allowance. By doing so, we will try to motivate young pharmacists, or even pharmacists, to set up pharmacies in the countryside, according to new regulations, in order to provide pharmacy and health services there. As I said, all of this complex draft law that amends certain principles was based on the judgment of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 9 December 2013. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has discussed this draft in two sessions. The first meeting took place on Wednesday, 16 April. There the Committee on Social Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 24 April and to appoint Margus Tsahkna, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee as rapporteur. These decisions were taken by consensus. Our second meeting took place on Tuesday, April 22. The chairman of the committee, Heljo Pikhof, had also invited representatives of several ministries and other public authorities who had given their opinion on this draft. For example, representatives of the Competition Authority, the National Agency and the National Audit Office, the Chancellor of Justice and his advisor, representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, as well as advisers of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu, were present. The debate was very lively and very substantive. The Government of the Republic has also announced its position on the draft. This is as follows: 'The Government of the Republic, having examined the draft law amending the Law on Medicines, the Law on Tax and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services (615 SE) and the Opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs on the draft, decided to support this draft at its meeting on 10 April 2014 in accordance with the proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Government of the Republic also considered it important that the relevant ministries and authorities are involved in the further processing of the draft in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. ' That is what the Social Affairs Committee did in its second session. The positions of the Government of the Republic deal with a wide range of points, but they are broadly the same. The Government of the Republic supports the regulation of the pharmacy bus. However, it considers it necessary to make some technical and practical changes to the draft. The Government of the Republic does not support the restriction on ownership and establishment of the pharmacy in the form set out in the draft, and proposes to delete paragraphs 5 to 8 of § 1 of the draft. These relate in particular to a change in ownership. The government has a pretty long analysis, I'm not going to read it, this document is available to you. In principle, the Government of the Republic supports the extension of the regulation of start-up support to pharmacists and pharmacists. However, the Government considers that the draft does not provide a sufficiently clear and motivated solution so that it still needs to be clarified. Similarly, it is important that the Government of the Republic supports the definition of pharmacists and pharmacists as health professionals providing pharmacy services. We have had this debate several times in this Chamber and I think it is a very fundamental and very necessary decision that we consider pharmacists and pharmacists to be healthcare providers. If we are to have in mind the resources available to the state to provide health services, especially at the primary level, it is clear that we must take advantage of all people with relevant education and experience. Only then will these services be practically available and of maximum quality. If we look at developments elsewhere, we will see that pharmacy service providers are being given an increasing role and competence. I see such a future for us. And of particular importance: the Association of Pharmacies, which has been largely involved in drafting this draft, has also requested it. The Government of the Republic also has observations on technical nuances, but generally it can be said that the Government supports this draft. He does not support the point of ownership change and provides that we will have to work hard on this draft, and that is what the Committee on Social Affairs is planning. We were also given an opinion by the Chancellor of Justice, who considers that the proposed regulation of ownership can violate the Constitution and therefore be unconstitutional. In conclusion, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder considers in his opinion that adopting the draft as such would mean going against the Constitution, which means that there is still work to be done on the draft. I will take a very brief look at the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, where everyone involved was together. It has been suggested that the impact of these major changes is not clearly known. At the same time, I must say that there had also been no particular analysis in support of the counter-arguments. This is one question that the Riigikogu has discussed repeatedly. We must certainly not forget the objective of why this draft has been launched. We must, firstly, ensure that citizens have access to the highest possible quality of pharmacy services as evenly as possible throughout Estonia. That is one goal. The second is that we must bear in mind, above all, the interests of human health. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs as a whole, the pharmacy service is not a regular service, it is a matter of human health. In itself, the pharmacy service regulates a lot of legislation both at European Union level and at Estonian level. The third objective is that the pharmacy service must also be integrated with the primary level of the Estonian health care system at law level. This is the perspective we should be thinking about. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu decided at its meeting on 22 April to propose the termination of the first reading (this decision was consensual) and to set the deadline for the amendments at 14 p.m. on 30 April 2014 (this decision was also consensual). Normally, we have fixed ten working days for the amendments. However, since the decision of the Supreme Court will enter into force on 9 June 2014, we set the deadline for the amendments to the Riigikogu's own work programme, this time a little shorter. In this case, the Commission will have time to discuss this issue in depth on several occasions with stakeholders as well as with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Agency and other partners. Our aim is to find a regulation that is operational and is primarily based on the interests of the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U11	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have questions too. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The fact that a pharmacist becomes a healthcare professional has long been a welcome and welcome decision. However, I am interested in changing the proposed property regulation, to which the government opposed. We know that right now most of the pharmacies are in the hands of two large chains, two wholesale companies. It hasn't been right since. Retail and wholesale could be separated, and this is a very welcome idea. But how do you imagine that the pharmacists can buy out of the chain? That's not what you do with 1500 euros. If the bill goes through nicely, how can it be implemented in practice? Almost no one can buy out a pharmacy from the chains.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U13	Good questioner! This is a topic that has almost been discussed most. This is a very big change, which the current pharmacies certainly do not like. But the purpose of the bill is to destroy the vertical integration that has been accused of providing our pharmacy service. Indeed, the service is concentrated in one or the other or in a relatively small group and has been repeatedly pointed out by the Competition Authority. If you recall, one day a pharmacist was allowed to run a pharmacy in Estonia, but at one point it was changed. What could be the motivations for change? If we look at where the pharmacies are now, we can see that there are really many, but they are not evenly located across Estonia. And keeping a pharmacy seems like a profitable venture. The state wants to lay down very specific requirements in this law. It also provides for a sufficient transitional period in the draft, but the transitional period may be five, six or seven years, and it is also possible to clarify the specific procedures for the transition with other regulations. Hungary, for example, was set an example in the Committee on Social Affairs, which is carrying out exactly the same reform. There, the state grants preferential loans to pharmacists so that they can buy out their shares. And if we look the other way around, which could be the motive of the pharmacists to sell their majority holdings to pharmacists, it's the fact that if they don't, they can't provide the pharmacy service anymore. So interest should be mutual. The motivation of pharmacists is certainly enhanced by the fact that we call them health care providers. Their position in the whole healthcare system will increase and they will have the opportunity to provide medicines as their own pharmacist. If you consider other measures that are added, you can be sure that the pharmacy service provided in rural areas will improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U14	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U15	Thank you. Good performer! This is a really good bill. I've been doing the same thing for years. I fully support the ownership restrictions offered. How long do we still tolerate that the pharmacy can also be owned by any shoemaker I'm gonna ask you one thing. If pharmacists become health professionals, not ordinary, because they provide pharmacy services and not regular health care services, do you think that the Estonian state can regulate this area in the way it is done around the world? It would no longer be a restriction on entrepreneurship, and the Chancellor of Justice would be able to sleep peacefully. The second question: why does the Ministry of Social Affairs state that this renaming is formal, does not change the content? Our understanding is that it changes the content.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U16	Good questioner! It's been an argument. The healthcare system, as you know, is very conservative. It's pretty complicated to make changes there. Basically, the pharmacist is still a healthcare professional in the sense that he gives the patient advice, he is a highly educated person who has acquired medical knowledge, and he is subject to very high demands. But at the same time, we treat them as ordinary counter workers who could sell random stuff at any gas station. I think this is a very serious injustice, because pharmacists are highly educated people. With this draft, we call them health professionals, but we do not foresee the specific services they should provide. That's the next job. I know that the so-called 'goodwill round table' in the medical field or the co-operation body has already discussed what services the pharmacists could provide. Logically, they could be funded by the Health Insurance Fund. This gives the state the opportunity, either through the Health Insurance Fund or through the Minister for Social Affairs, to give certain guidelines to the pharmacists. This is how the pharmacy service acquires a new dimension. This is not a normal service; pharmacies become part of the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U17	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U18	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! As you pointed out in your report, there are actually a lot of substantive questions and work on the draft is still ongoing. However, this is a very time-critical draft. Have you and the Ministry of Social Affairs discussed the black scenario that we can't keep up with the bill? It takes time to put life into practice. What will happen if we fail to adopt this law by the deadline?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U19	Thank you. If we fail to implement the law or we fail to find a solution by 9 June, so that it enters into force, there will be a situation where restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies will disappear. Logically, there may be a situation where more pharmacies are set up in cities. The number of pharmacists in Estonia is limited. As the sale of medicines is more profitable in cities and other densely populated areas, it may be that existing land pharmacies are being shut down, which simply attracts pharmacists to cities where they are paid more. Thus, if the market becomes completely free, the availability of medical aid on land may deteriorate. The goal of entrepreneurship is still to make a profit, and profits are made precisely where there are many people, and these places are bigger cities. For information to the extent that the pharmacy's licence is currently granted only if the pharmacist is also working at the pharmacy. So there can only be as many pharmacies as there are pharmacists. If many pharmacies are to be set up in cities, then the working pharmacists in the country must be lured into better-paid cities. That is the danger, and that is why we are trying to find a solution. I agree that there is not much time, but the Committee on Social Affairs is prepared to work hard and all parties are prepared to advise us fully.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U20	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good Margus! I still want to find out what changes from the point of view of a normal person. The pharmacist becomes a healthcare professional and at least 51% of the participation can go to the pharmacists. At the same time, every year in this Chamber, we make some pretty crazy bureaucratic laws from the point of view of small business. This person, who now has to deal with health care work, must also cope with a relatively large amount of bureaucracy. I'm sure a lot of people can't do that. And the current owner of the pharmacy, for example, remains the owner of 49% and still has some discretion. But my question is, what would change for an ordinary person with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U22	Thank you. I wouldn't use the word "normal person," we all go to the pharmacy from time to time. But we're trying to improve the quality of the pharmacy service. We are trying to make competition real at the level of final sales. If a pharmacy is also allowed to hold one pharmacist, then pharmacies will certainly be created especially in the cities. But we are also trying to ensure that medical aid is not only available in cities, but also in rural areas, i.e. sparsely populated areas. That is our goal. The second objective is to break up the vertical integration that we currently have. That's what I'm talking about. In fact, keeping pharmacies is concentrated in the hands of a great man. There's basically no competition. There is also regulation in the draft, which will change. Wholesalers can no longer be in the drugstore's circle. This is a very important point. As far as the organisation of entrepreneurship is concerned, it has been the case in Estonia for years that pharmacists have been the owners of the pharmacy and have taken care of everyday business activities. In my opinion, we will significantly increase the status of pharmacists when we call him a health care provider. We're going to make more use of his expertise, his university-acquired knowledge. In this way, all primary care will be provided with more competence and human resources to provide simpler health services. At the same time, we bring these services closer to people. So there are quite a few positive aspects to this bill. However, I do agree that this is a very fundamental change and there will certainly be major disputes here, because there are very high interests in this area, which are constantly colliding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U23	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will continue on my previous question. Years ago, it was really that way, but at some point in time it was the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice's office that the possession of the pharmacy was released. This office said it was a violation of the Constitution. At the same time, we have examples to the contrary. The gas network must be decoupled from the gas seller, the electricity grid is the same as the one that appears nowhere and no Chancellor of Justice has opened his mouth. Reference is made to the European Union directive, and that is it. Is there support for the decoupling of pharmacies from any EU directive? How does this plan feel when the European Union looks at it? I agree with the fact that since we have the pharmacies in the hands of two major chains, there is no competition. The retail prices will certainly fall if the pharmacies are released from the chains, I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U25	The philosophy of this draft is that we consider the pharmacist to be a health care provider. That is the principle that will change the whole situation. In their time, when pharmacists were pharmacists, they were not by law and still are not health care providers. They weren't part of the healthcare system. Now we put them in a new light. I agree with you that breaking chains to some extent will certainly help to have a small competitive effect, at least in the retail sector, although wholesalers will still remain the same. When we call a pharmacist a health professional, it is the task of the state to ensure that medical care is available uniformly throughout Estonia. In this way, the country can establish the relevant standards or requirements under which healthcare will be provided in pharmacies. This opens up, in my opinion, a completely new perspective, inter alia, from the point of view of constitutionality. It would no longer be an ordinary business, but part of the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U26	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The explanatory memorandum states that there are problems in the Estonian pharmaceutical market, and colleagues in this Chamber today welcome this draft. I'd like to ask if there's anything else. You have worked in the Committee on Social Affairs for many years, you have an overview of the situation and would like to know your opinion on whether there is anything else to be done, but this draft did not, because it was necessary to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U28	Good questioner! The whole health sector is a very complex area, but this issue is very specific. We have the Supreme Court's decision, which will enter into force on 9 June, so there is no way to put this issue off. I think this is the right moment, although the time is really very short, to look at what we want to do in the wider and long term when it comes to the provision of pharmacy services. The real situation is that all parties are waiting for some change. Pharmacists have perhaps been the most active, and I think it is right in itself that the pharmacy should also be regulated when dealing with the provision of healthcare. I don't know what other problems might be, but we've put all the good ideas into this bill. However, given the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs with representatives from different ministries and agencies, it is certain that the procedure will be very difficult. The Committee on Social Affairs has not yet invited those interest groups who currently hold pharmacies to the table, and their capacity is known to us. So the draft procedure is going to be extremely complicated, because there are very high interests involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U29	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U30	Thank you. I'm sure it's a good bill, but with regard to ownership change, I'm rather pessimistic. No one currently forbids the owner of a pharmacy, the manager of a wholesale company, to write this property in the name of his wife, and things continue to be the same. But my question is about health care, which you've referred to a lot today. If pharmacists now formally start doing the work they have done for 300 years within the framework of health services, will the costs of the Health Insurance Fund increase? And if the costs of the health insurance fund increase, will the reception capacity of family doctors be reduced or will it remain at the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U31	Good questioner, you're going to the very details. I will give a simple example of what is meant by the fact that a pharmacist is called a health care professional. It is very important that the pharmacist has access to human data in the health information system. Then he will be better able to recommend which particular medicine can be taken, taking into account the combined effects of the medicines. Right now, the pharmacist doesn't see that information. He does not see human health information, but sees what the doctor has prescribed for humans on the basis of the active substance. He doesn't see what other medications a person takes at the same time. However, pharmacists are the best educated in medicine in Estonia and also the most experienced in how medicines work together. It is also known that some family doctors feel that certain services should not be provided by them. We have allowed family doctors to employ another family nurse so that simpler procedures should not be carried out by a family doctor, but that he can devote himself to the patient's more difficult problems. Why should certain simple procedures not be carried out by a pharmacist when the conditions and standards have been established? In that case, of course, the sickness fund will cover these costs. But that doesn't mean the family doctor's gonna miss the money. After all, no one takes away the family doctor's bounty; the help will certainly continue to be provided at the expense of the family doctor's bounty. What do we finally get? We will receive better primary health care and probably more evenly across Estonia. The simplest things that people do sometimes stop going to the family doctor and not burdening them. Help is also available at the pharmacy. But it already requires a separate debate. Everything must be very clearly standardised so that it is known what services they specifically are, what quality they must meet and what environment they are provided in. This draft proposes a basis, a legal base on which changes can be implemented. It does not contain a specific list of pharmacists' services.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U32	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Yes, one wish in drawing up this draft was somehow to contribute to the activities of pharmacies in places where turnover and profitability are low. Did the working group that participated in the preparation of this draft also discuss the Chancellor of Justice's earlier proposal to set up some kind of fund to support these pharmacies? That's not in the bill. What reasons did you leave it out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U34	Good questioner! The issue has also been raised in the Committee on Social Affairs. Perhaps the solution is that the state will, by means of a system, support the keeping of a pharmacy in places where it is not economically justified. But the problem is that keeping a pharmacy is entrepreneurship like any other. If the State is now going to directly grant grants to someone in this area, it can also be considered State aid, and it is difficult to do so with such regulation. What do I mean? If we consider a pharmacist, or pharmacist, to be a health care provider, if he is also a majority member of his so-called pharmacy manager in the company, this changes the legal basis. In this case, it is possible to come up with a system where the provision of a pharmacy service needs to be supported in certain areas. If such a pharmacy also provides health care, it is already a specific price list of the health insurance fund. Well, that opens up a certain perspective. We have not recorded this system separately because there has been very little time. And, to a large extent, it relates to the rules in force in the European Union as to how much the country can support entrepreneurship. Right now, it's more like creating a frame.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U35	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U36	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As we know, from 1 July, business licences will become permanent, and we will probably have to include a clause in the draft that this is not the case for pharmacies. If we move on from here and we look at the number of pharmacists, we can see that they are now operating around 700. The pharmacist must also be present at the general pharmacy at all times and most pharmacies will be open from 9 to 9 or from 10 to 9. I'm sure there won't be a pharmacist there at any time. We also discussed that general pharmacies could only be in cities. Today, there are also many rare pharmacies in cities, especially because it is not wanted to be given to others. How do you know if we're gonna make it or not? It's not in the bill right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U37	Good questioner! You're the chairman of the committee. Your decision is the speed of procedure. However, the Commission has initiated this draft in a consensual manner and it is the will to act as quickly as possible and with the involvement of all parties as possible. Indeed, we still have the debate open, we do not yet know exactly what this draft will be by 9 June. As far as licences are concerned, the law adopted by the Riigikogu on 1 July will indeed enter into force, with which licences in various fields will become permanent. At the same time, at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, if I am not mistaken, the opinion of the Agency was that, even if the existing time-limited licences do not lose their validity, if we decide to amend this law and conditions, licence holders will also have to change their activities accordingly. This may not be an obstacle, but it is certainly one of the issues that we need to analyse in the Committee on Social Affairs. With this entry into force, some of this law must definitely enter into force on 9 June this year. As far as major and fundamental changes are concerned, for example as regards the ownership that has been mentioned, we must give them a long enough transitional period to enable pharmacists to prepare. Maybe that time could be six or seven years. Then already young people who plan to go to university to study some specialty will see their perspective. If you choose the profession of pharmacist, you will know that you will be able to open your pharmacy in the future and, in keeping with this, devote yourself to your specialty. Perhaps the number of pharmacists will increase if we give such a perspective. In other words, many choose not to go to wholesale companies simply as consignors, below all their competences, but to devote themselves to their specialty. The impact of this bill in the long term can be much greater than it seems now. Especially if we also give the pharmacist the status of health care professional. This will certainly motivate young people to study as a pharmacist and maybe also gain entrepreneurial knowledge in order to undertake and establish their own pharmacy when they finish school. That's the kind of conditions we actually create.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U38	Tatiana Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U39	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Margus! Did the Commission mention whether the Estonian pharmacy network has been mapped and what are the areas where the pharmacy service is difficult to access?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U40	The relevant study of the Social Committee can also be consulted, it is quite long and thorough. What's the problem? Very broadly, everyone in the cities wants to run a pharmacy. Especially hot places are major shopping malls. In rural areas, however, keeping a pharmacy is not rentable. Some of the pharmacies that are in the country are partly chain pharmacies, some are pharmacists' own. A pharmacist just keeps his pharmacy in a particular place. But the direction is that the number of pharmacies in the country has decreased over the last few years. I can't tell by heart how many of them there are, but I assure you, it's very important to deal with this issue here. The pharmacy service must be available evenly across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U41	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? Please, now's the chance! No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 615 amendments. a on 30 April 2010 at 14 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U42	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. To this end, the Social Democratic Party Group has initiated the first reading of the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act 600. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu member Indrek Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U43	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this bill has reached the grand hall of the Riigikogu. I would like to remind you that this is reflected in the desire to alleviate the situation in Estonia's political landscape, which has been described in recent years as a closed environment, where political competition is not even lacking, but opportunities to participate in it are very limited for particularly small and new parties, as well as for individual candidates. Consequently, the Social Democratic Party has submitted bill No 600, the draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act. Let us consider two points here. Of course, we are not suggesting that injustice should be eliminated in absolute terms, but political competition should certainly be considerably revived on the basis of these legislative changes. These changes concern the bail payable by political parties, as well as the conditions for the election of an individual candidate, and more specifically the quota for the individual candidate to be elected to the Riigikogu. There has also been a suggestion that bail should be abolished. In general, it is understood that this is not reasonable because bail has a clear purpose. The aim is that people, or groups of people, who come out on a common list and submit their candidacy, take the matter seriously and think carefully about why they are running. There would certainly be people who think that it is just fun to be a member of the Riigikogu alone. The goal is that if people want to run, they would realize that there are costs involved. That's what bail is for. Bail makes people think deeply about why they're setting themselves up as candidates, and it probably doesn't make sense to lose it. If we look at the current system of funding parties, we will see that the political parties that have been elected to the Riigikogu receive significant support from the state budget. Those who have participated in previous elections and received at least 2% of the votes will receive EUR 30000 of the State contribution, over 3% will receive EUR 60000 and over 4% will receive EUR 100000 of the State contribution. Their chances of bailing out the list are much greater. The full list means presenting 125 candidates in Estonia and, in 2015, that is to say, in the next Riigikogu elections, it will most likely cost nearly 50000 euros. And when it comes to the first candidate party, it is quite likely that the 5% threshold will not be exceeded and that the money will not be refunded, just as the parties who will be able to get back to the Riigikogu and for whom this cost will be borne by the state budget. Of course, looking at the state, there can be no objection to the country's coming with more revenue. But if we want to respect the general principles of democracy, we must certainly not impose such a wealth of censorship when we stand as candidates for elections to the Riigikogu. We therefore propose that the party that participates in the elections to the Riigikogu for the first time do not have to make bail. We want to change the Riigikogu Election Act in this way. And the second topic is the individual candidates. There has been much talk of unequal conditions for individual candidates compared to political parties. Political parties will also receive a district mandate if the number of votes collected on the list in the district is at least 75% of the basic quota. However, the individual candidate must achieve a simple quota, i.e. 25% more votes. This is an unjustified distinction, and with this bill we would like to eliminate this distinction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U44	I would like to remind you that the Reform Party and, as far as I know, the honourable questioner in the Reform Party have signed a coalition agreement that states both of these points. If you unravel the draft explanatory memorandum, it states the coalition agreement between the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party, which directly connects with the points that I was trying to explain to you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U45	Thank you very much for the waitress. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The report shall be made on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by the Member of the Commission, Mr Väino Linde. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U46	Members of the Riigikogu have questions for the rapporteur. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, you've been seriously discussing this with your colleagues. I would like to know how this situation is in the neighbouring countries of Finland, Norway, Sweden. I mean, just the sphere you were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U48	These regulations are very different. But right now it is important to keep in mind that we do not look at just one aspect. As I said, all of this requires an analysis of how political parties are financed at all. We know that in many countries, if a list is to be applied, certain criteria must be met. We have a fresh change to the requirement that the list can only be applied when it is registered as a party. Only then can you put out a list. And it takes at least 500 people to get together to register a party. This restriction is already in force. These at least 500 people have the only option of collecting the required bail from membership fees. And we're talking about some EUR 50,000. Even those parties with more than 10,000 members have never been able to raise such a large amount of money during their independence during the year, even by means of donations. However, such a new list of state support cannot under any circumstances be obtained under the current regime. If you look around, we see a number of countries where there is a procedure that if you qualify to submit a list, you will automatically receive state support to apply for state support. It's a completely different system than we do. This provides an opportunity to bail out the same state funds that will most likely come back to the state budget. We have a system built differently. There are also examples of countries where no bail is required. A certain quantity of signatures is required to provide a list. There are countries where bail is considerably higher, but most of the land remains in the east. We need to look for good examples in the West when we change our electoral laws. Politics shouldn't really become a business, there shouldn't be a very harsh wealthy censorship. In fact, the multiplicity of possibilities could be described in one way or the other. In our case, it is important to bear in mind that political parties that are in the Riigikogu or simply above the 2% threshold in previous elections have gained a competitive advantage in the form of the state funding them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U49	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Riigikogu formed its own clear position on the issues covered by the draft law that you submitted four months ago. What is this new weighty knowledge that should make the Riigikogu change its positions four months after the adoption of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U51	I don't think it's just this bill. I believe that this knowledge has arrived in society at large and that, as a result, the Republic of Estonia has received a new coalition of government. The hope of fairer political competition and openness to the political party landscape has taken many forms, including the new coalition of government. And the new government coalition has reviewed the principles that apply both to electoral law and to party law. This is part of a fundamental agreement on how to open up the policy landscape and, in our opinion, make it more democratic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at two sessions. 14 and 21 April were those dates. Already on 14 April, we made a fundamental decision to send the draft to the first reading of the large Chamber of the Riigikogu today, as amended. On April 21, this modified figure in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs saw the light of day. Taking into account both the views of the initiators and the Commission's proposals, and based on the opinion of the Government of the Republic, we have made the draft much thinner and shorter. It now deals only with the release of a new newly registered party from bail and the equalisation of the grounds for obtaining a party's and an individual candidate's district mandate in the elections to the Riigikogu. The Commission held a long discussion on what this bail is, whether it is necessary at all and for what purposes it has been implemented. There are basically different political forces represented in the Commission, but we all found that the aim of bail is to prevent the easy setting up of a list of candidates. And you could really let new arrivals come to the arena more easily without bail. The Government of the Republic supported the draft on the two points that ultimately remained in the text. We were not able to dwell very much on the draft point in the Commission, which states that 'the candidate for a political party to whom the number of votes cast exceeds or equal to the simple quota is elected, or the individual candidate who has at least 75 per cent of the simple quota. " Does this provision really serve the purpose of the bill? After all, we wish to equalise the election of an individual candidate and a party to the Riigikogu in obtaining a circuit mandate. I believe that on this subject the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will certainly look more closely at the further processing of the draft. It may happen that this provision does not serve this purpose and may not be achievable. The mandates given to persons and the Circuit and Compensation Mandate given to political parties are distributed on different bases, whether or not on different grounds, and are very difficult to compare. In principle, however, this should be our further work on the draft 600 procedure. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading today and I also have a nice deadline for tabling amendments: it could be on 9 May at 16:00. This is a consensus proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U53	There are questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U54	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a modest question. If a party runs for the first time, it's off bail. Does a change of name mean that the party is running for the first time? There was a People's Union, for example, and now the same company comes out under the name of the Estonian Conservative People's Party or EKRE. Is that bailing out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U55	The party must still be formed for the first time. Only the appointment of an existing party in a different way is not enough. At the same time, a new political party may indeed be born of members from one party and another during the elections of the Riigikogu. If there is a new statute, we can say that the party is taking part in the elections to the Riigikogu for the first time. For example, the four political parties currently represented in the Riigikogu are not enough to make bail.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U56	Andrus Ansip, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U57	No further questions. Thank you, Väino Linde! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. As regards draft 600, the commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 600 amendments. 9 May at 4 p.m. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U58	Good waitress! Are you now saying that the Reform Party is also willing to support the draft that you have tabled? This means, in your opinion, has the Reform Party changed its position four months ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U59	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Act on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. In the name of the initiators of the speech chair, please report to Jüri Morozov, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U60	Honourable Chairman! Members of the Hääd Riigikogu! Draft Act 601 amending the Act on the Status of a Member of the Riigikogu and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, is under process within the framework of the democratic package. Let it be said in advance that the position of the whole Riigikogu and the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu in 2005 was supportive of the relevant bill. Paragraph 2 (5) of the current Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu states that the scope of the Act also includes agencies incompatible with the office of a member of the Riigikogu. Paragraph 24 (1) of the Act states that a member of the Riigikogu may not be a member of a city or rural municipality council. The purpose of this draft is to resolve the possible just, possible constitutional contradiction, that a member of the Riigikogu may not be in office at the same time as a member of the local government council. Our desire is to ensure the general equality and passive electoral rights of a member of the Riigikogu and to minimise the possible conflict between the mandates of the Riigikogu and of a member of the local government council. On this topic, the Chancellor of Justice, the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Justice and, of course, the College of the Supreme Court have given their views on the application submitted by the President of the Republic to the Supreme Court for the amendment of the Law on the Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act. Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks has analysed the situation and found that the reconciliation of the mandates of a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the local government council is contrary to the principles of conflict of interest arising from § 4 and § 154 (1) of the Constitution and the separation of vertical and personal powers. He considers that, on the one hand, such a reconciliation of mandates may inclined a member of the Riigikogu to deal with matters of national importance only from a local point of view. On the other hand, the independence of local authorities in deciding local life issues may be reduced if the decision-makers in the councils are representatives of the state authorities, who may leave local needs in the background. As a member of the Riigikogu, a person must stand up for the interests of the state, as a member of the council, but for local interests, and these interests may in certain cases conflict with each other. The authors of the draft act indicate that § 62 of the Constitution fixes two very important principles concerning the status of a member of the Riigikogu. The first is the free mandate and the second is the principle of legal irresponsibility of a member of the Riigikogu. The provision creates legal prerequisites for a member of the Riigikogu to perform his or her duties freely, independently and according to his or her conscience. We believe that, based on these two principles, a member of the Riigikogu who has taken up the local government council is free in its decisions, both by acting on the local government council and by acting in the Riigikogu. The Supreme Court is of the opinion that considering a member of a local government council as a state office within the meaning of § 63 (1) of the Constitution is incorrect, as the Constitution clearly distinguishes local government from executive power. The fact that a member of a local government council may participate in the decision-making of matters which are the subject of the executive state authority as a result of the imposition of state duties on the local government is not sufficient to consider this position as a state office. A member of the Riigikogu in office also has the right to stand as a candidate in municipal elections pursuant to § 5 of the Local Government Council Election Act. The draft in question creates opportunities to guarantee the constitutional rights of a member of the Riigikogu and allows him to participate in organising the life of the local government in his place of residence. At the same time, the possibilities for a member of the Riigikogu to participate in the local government council are limited: he is not allowed to be the chairman or vice-chairman of the council. These are two posts in which functions similar to those of the executive state office are performed as signatory bodies. The responsibility of the ordinary member of the local government council and the impact of its activities are expressed in a collegiate way and there is no resemblance to being in the state office. The Chancellor of Justice has found that if one person simultaneously performs the functions of two branches of state power and is remunerated on both sides, this could lead to an ethical and conflict of interest between the functions of power exercised and, consequently, between personal and public interests. He has explained that a conflict of interest as a situation in which a public official simultaneously performs conflicting functions and pursues conflicting objectives could lead to a loss of office and create preconditions for corruption. The initiators of the draft act consider that a conflict of interest at local government level is not excluded even now, for example in cases where a council member works in a private company and other public sector bodies such as schools. Practices in which a person working in a state or other occupation is also a member of a council are frequent. Therefore, we do not consider it justified to impose a restriction on a member of the Riigikogu, all the more so that the conflict of interest in the case of a member of the Riigikogu is indirect. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has held that the local government cannot be regarded as part of the branch of executive power. The fact that the local authority performs the functions of the branch of the executive power in the exercise of the functions conferred on it by law is not sufficient to acknowledge the breach of the principle of separation of powers. The executive authorities have no power of command or disciplinary authority over the members of the council, nor do the council members receive any remuneration from the authority of the state. In order to prevent any conflict of interest arising from the payment of the fee, the bill regulates the conditions for the payment of compensation to a member of the Riigikogu. It is stipulated that a member of the Riigikogu, who at the same time is also in office at the local government council, will not receive any remuneration for this work. It is also ethical in the opinion of the initiators and carries the idea of a member of the Riigikogu as a high moral representative. The Minister of Justice has referred to the independence of the local government in carrying out its legal duties and has found that the decision-making and organisation of local life issues, which are the main activities of the local government, is not the direct exercise of the functions of any branch of state authority. The Estonian Constitution does not treat the exercise of the functions of the local government as the exercise of state authority, and therefore the activity of a member of the Riigikogu in deciding and organising local life issues in the local council is not contrary to the principle of separation and balance of the horizontal powers. Taking the possibility of membership of the local government council from a member of the Riigikogu can be considered as a disproportionate restriction of the general right to equality and passive voting rights of a member of the Riigikogu. A situation in which competent people are forbidden by the law to participate in the development of the life of their home country is in no way beneficial for the development of our country as a whole. As a solution to the current scandalous situation, it is reasonable to restore the right of members of the Riigikogu to work on councils with the restrictions set out above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U61	There are questions for the waitress. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U62	Thank you. Good colleague! I understand what it means to get paid. But from your suggestion that a member of the Riigikogu may not be the chairman or vice-chairman of a city or parish council, I do not understand. You will allow me, as a member of the Riigikogu, to work as chairman of the committee. I'm automatically a member of the presidency. I can go to the Presidency's meetings, and that means I'm taking a lot of part in this council's work. I have a question of how you explain why I cannot then be the chairman of the council or his deputy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U63	That's what I explained in my report. Since this issue has become the subject of a constitutional dispute, the authors of the draft law have tried to reduce such a conflict. A possible conflict, I'd say. Therefore, the principle has been introduced that a member of the Riigikogu may not be a chairman or vice-chairman in the local government council, as these persons sign the documents of the council and there may be a breach of the Constitution. But I believe that there will be discussions on this issue in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and perhaps more widely, and a consensus will be found. In any case, as a legislative body of the Riigikogu, such differences can be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U64	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U65	Thank you, good manager. Good George! I want to move on to the same subject. Yeah, well, maybe somebody thinks that if someone signs a collegiate decision, there's some way they can influence it. This person is wrong. However, the majority of the council must be in favour of a decision and the chairman of the council simply confirms that decision in the minutes. That's all this signature means. When it comes to the administration of the council by the chairman or vice-chairman of the council, there is still the third option. In that case, it should also be that if a member of the Riigikogu is the oldest member of the council, he should still not be there. Because if the chairman and vice-chairman are not present, the council is headed by the oldest member on the council. And the second question is the same question as the chairmen of the Commission. I think that important decisions are mostly made on council committees and that the council simply votes. We're really scared somebody's gonna decide something. But in the council, as in the Riigikogu, every decision must be based on the desire of the majority.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U66	Question, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U67	Does it make sense to make such a restriction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U68	Good questioner! There really is no refusal to be chairman of the council committee in the draft, nor to be chairman or vice-chairman of the council. I fully agree with you because the Local Government Organisation Act states exactly how to proceed if the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Council are unable to attend the council meeting. I've seen the local government from the inside for a long time, and I agree with you. However, I will explain once again that the initiators have tried to minimise the problems the Chancellor of Justice referred to. At the same time, it must be said that both the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu as a whole are actually in a different position, as well as the Minister of Justice. I believe that this issue will be thoroughly resolved in the Commission and that the issue will be resolved in the way that is most sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U69	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I know countries where MEPs are forbidden to participate in the work of the local government council. I know countries where MEPs are allowed to take part in the work of the local government council, as well as in the work of executive power at local level. Perhaps it comes from my superficial knowledge, but I do not know of any country where a Member who may take part in the work of a local government would be forbidden to contribute as chairman of a committee, chairman of a council or vice-chairman. The draft you presented essentially establishes two different statuses for the council members: one may be involved in the council's management, the other may not. What is this compelling reason for establishing two different statuses of a council member in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U71	Good questioner! Once again, the draft does not say that a member of the Riigikogu must not work as chairman of the council committee. Only the Chairman and Vice-Chairperson of the Council have been appointed. In fact, the Constitution is relatively general in terms of the incompatibility of these agencies. It is assumed that the Riigikogu, as a legislative body, may impose certain restrictions or rules, as the case may be. I say once again that the motivation of the initiators of the draft to draw up such a draft is precisely related to the debate on constitutionality between the Chancellor of Justice, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and the plenary session of the Riigikogu. The initiators of the draft act have tried to minimise the inconsistencies involved. Is that reasonable? I believe that this will become clear in the further discussions on the draft, a consensus and the best solution will probably be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U72	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I must say that this part of your 'democratic package' reminds me a little of the Azerbaijan referendum. In the sense that the package has been stacked together with a large number of elements. There are very good elements that are very pleasant in every way, but this draft is something that is more of a stone to existing power relations and is aimed at extending privileges, in particular the rights of members of the Riigikogu. But I was also touched by the part of your argument that moved along this path that signing documents on behalf of the council, as if there were elements of a constitutional barrage, but the decision-making, voting, taking positions in the council is just like a softer option for which there is no barrage. My question is moving along the same path as Andrus Ansip's, only my own starting point is different. If the signing contains a barring element, is it not logical to conclude that all other activities in the council also include them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U74	Thank you, good questioner! The answer depends on the starting position. The Chancellor of Justice, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Justice and the plenary of the Riigikogu are different starting points for this issue. This debate was active in May 2005 until the autumn municipal elections. I believe that this debate must now be reopened in this Chamber and that a suitable solution must be found to the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U75	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, there is one minute to ask a question. The last three questioners all went a little over. Let's make it through this minute! Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U76	Thank you. I'll try to make it in a minute. Dear waitress, In some countries, the reconciliation of local and national representation is legally permitted, and a Member can also work as a member of a local government council. Whether such an arrangement complies with our constitution and whether the restriction you have proposed is a question of its own, but if a member of the Riigikogu needs to participate in the work of a council at the other end of Estonia, there is a need to reconcile the two works in time. When you put together the draft, did you also think of such an option that, in such a case, the working time of the councils should be set up in such a way that a member of the Riigikogu can participate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U77	The rules of procedure of the Council shall also be regulated in accordance with the statutes established by each local authority individually. This collegial body will decide which rules of procedure are best suited to the people who have been elected this time, including a member of the Riigikogu. Of course, not only a member or members of the Riigikogu are counted. I believe that members of the Riigikogu may be one or two members of the local government council. It has come out of interpretation that suddenly the entire council consists of members of the Riigikogu, but it is a relatively theoretical and science fictional opportunity. I believe everything can be arranged. On the other hand, it is very important to consider that a member of the Riigikogu is not obliged to participate in municipal elections. With this bill, we simply give him the constitutional right to participate. He does not need to participate if he finds that the work of the Riigikogu is very burdensome. If he is here, for example, the chairman of the committee or the chairman of the Riigikogu or the leader of the political group, he will of course not stand as a candidate for local elections. However, if he is running and, finally, does not take up this task, the same theme of decoy ducks, I think it may be justified to point a finger at him.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U78	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I take the view that the participation of a member of the Riigikogu in the work of a local government council is a perfectly reasonable thing. At the same time, I was asked by § 24 (2) of the Act, which states that when a member of the Riigikogu is elected as a member of a city or rural municipality council, he is not entitled to compensation for his participation in the work of the council. This point seems to me to be a bit of a socialist-communist slope, and it regulates in advance so that people do not work properly there. Whether or not a member of the Riigikogu receives compensation does not, of course, increase or reduce his or her connection to the place, but it is generally known that if the work is done free of charge, quality may not be the best. There should be no discrimination in this respect compared to other Commissioners, and I do not understand this basis well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U80	Good questioner! The main motivation of the initiators of the draft act was that the law would be primarily ethical and take into account the high moral standard of a member of the Riigikogu. I don't know about you guys, but if I applied to my local government council and happened to be elected, even if the law was such that I could get paid, I'd definitely give it up. But that, too, is a question of debate. In my report, I have already explained our main argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U81	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The general objective of the draft act to abolish this ban is reasonable and I support it. But I, too, have a little problem with the prohibitions contained in § 24. Do these potential conflicts, both in terms of competences and in terms of remuneration, exist in your perceptions or are they real? If these are real, can you give an example? Personally, I do not share the view that paying for a job is somehow unethical, that is normal. But I'm still interested in examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U83	I did not say that it was unethical, but I referred to the fact that in general society, members of the Riigikogu and high public officials are subject to very high ethical standards. And I think that makes sense. My argument was that the ethics of the matter should also be taken into account. People expect more from these people. The initiators of the draft law analysed the debate that took place in 2005. After all, the College of the Supreme Court gave a ruling on this issue, and this decision was not related at all to the so-called motivated text of the Chancellor of Justice, but was based on § 10 of the Constitution. The problem was seen that this law could offend democracy. There are a lot of questions here, there is a need to launch this debate and reach a consensus so that the whole issue can be resolved. It's still up for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U84	Andres Herkel, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U85	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Unlike Mr Marus, I am not very convinced of the purpose of this draft. In my opinion, one of the weakest places in the explanatory memorandum is the paragraph where you say that the problem is that a member of the Riigikogu cannot belong to the local government council at the same time, and this must be resolved. So far, we've solved the problem that they belong there. Such a boxing problem is not, in my opinion, the best thing to do. What is the purpose of this bill anyway? Do you want to extend the rights of members of the Riigikogu, thereby preventing new people from entering politics, or do you want to solve the problem of decoy ducks? This has already become uncomfortable for the parties. Or would you like to revive the dispute over the constitutionality that was held ten years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U86	Good questioner! The purpose of this draft is not to extend the rights of members of the Riigikogu, but to ensure that the rights of members of the Riigikogu are respected. It is not that we are extending their constitutional rights. Neither the Constitution nor the Local Government Council Election Act prohibit members of the Riigikogu from applying for and participating in the local government council. It's okay, but of course, with the admission that the chosen one will give up one place or another. As regards whether the dispute over constitutionality needs to be re-raised, it needs to be pulled up, not because of the dispute, but in order to finally find clarity. It was precisely because the decision of the Supreme Court's College is based on a different position than that of the Chancellor of Justice. We need to get this over with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U87	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U88	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did you also discuss this situation when the meeting of the council and, for example, the Riigikogu commission coincide? What's more important? In small places, I believe, agreeing on some new time is not a big problem. But in larger municipalities, especially those with powers other than those in the country, there may be a quiet desire to do away with each other. How can it be regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U89	Good questioner! I expect the state and its subjects to function wisely and fairly. We didn't discuss all the conspiracy theories in the committee. I believe that it is possible to organise two levels of work in such a way that they do not interfere with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U90	Andrus Ansip, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There is no common European approach to whether a Member may or may not take part in the work of a local authority. In Ireland, for example, a Member of Parliament has never been allowed to take part in the work of a local government, then it has been banned, then again allowed. I believe that this is a time-changing thing, as the situation requires, so the legislator states. But I am very disturbed by your proposal to introduce two different statuses for council members. Why do you believe that if a council member receives compensation for his work, there will be a conflict of interest between the central government and the local government, and if he does not receive that benefit, there will be no conflict? As we know, the European Charter for Local Government provides for the payment of compensation to the members of the local government council. That compensation may or may not be paid for my sake. I believe that people work in the local government not because of this compensation, but because they want to improve the local life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U92	Good questioner! This conflict of interest is seen by the Chancellor of Justice. Its view is that if persons working in different branches of the same state office receive remuneration from both sides, it can be seen as a conflict. The initiators of the draft act have tried to reduce this conflict with their proposal. But I believe that today, in the case of this draft, it is not so important to have its qualitative level, how many questionable and controversial views there are. What is important is that the subject is in the debate. Me and I think everyone's hope and expectation is that it will be a good bill and a good law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U93	Thank you. No further questions. Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is already rushing to the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U94	Dear Chairman, I hastened to make up for the time taken by the questioners. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 15 April. The initiators were represented by a good colleague, Jüri Morozov, and Katariina Kärsten, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, took part in the meeting. By this time, the position of the Government of the Republic had also arrived, which is supportive of the draft. The Government of the Republic also decided to forward to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu a separate position of the Minister of Finance on the draft law. The Minister of Finance considers that all members of the local government council must be treated equally. Therefore, a member of the Riigikogu should also have the opportunity to be elected to the senior positions of the council. The Minister of Finance also sees a legal as well as substantive problem when paying a fee for participating in the work of the council is distinguished from other members of the council from a member of the Riigikogu. As a member of the Council, his burden is no less than that he is also a member of the Riigikogu. We have had a very lively debate, but the issues that were discussed in the session have also been discussed here in a question-and-answer manner, and therefore I would not go into detail. I will read to my good colleagues two points of view which, in my opinion, point to the nature of the problem. First of all, I would like to introduce to you the reply to Mr Allar Jõks, Chancellor of Justice, signed by Mr Reinsalu, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of his day. This letter is dated 12 April 2005 and its content is as follows: 'The Constitutional Committee discussed your report on the membership of the local government councils of the Riigikogu at its meeting on 22 March 2005. The Constitutional Commission took the view that being a member of a local government council is not another state office within the meaning of § 63 of the Constitution and that the reconciliation of powers between a member of the Riigikogu and a member of a local government council is a matter of political decision. ' I stress: political decision-making. On 28 October 2013, the Chancellor of Justice, who is currently in office, sent Mrs Ene Ergma a letter on this subject, entitled "A seat in the Riigikogu as a member of the Riigikogu and as a member of the Council as regards the admissibility of the reconciliation of status'. The summary of its contents is that the Chancellor of Justice is of the opinion that the admissibility or inadmissibility of the reconciliation of the membership of the Riigikogu and the membership of the council is not fixed by the Constitution and that both solutions are, in principle, possible. It remains to be hoped that, in the course of further discussions, considering pros and cons, the Riigikogu will once make a political decision, whatever it may be. But we also took procedural decisions at the committee meeting. At first reading, we decided to discuss this in the large Chamber today and we proposed that the first reading be concluded. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour, 3 against and no abstentions. The deadline for amendments could be set at 4 p.m. on 9 May. The last proposal was adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U95	Any questions for the waitress? Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U96	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I have a question about the entry into force of the law. Will the current injustice be immediately eliminated by the entry into force of the Act for members of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U97	This is also a question that we must discuss together and decide how it is right. If I remember correctly, there is no separate entry into force point in the draft, so it will enter into force in the general procedure. But if this general entry into force is correct, it must be discussed. There are several ways in which it could enter into force. I think we are rightly wise in this regard, both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the forthcoming debates in this large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U98	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 601. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 601 amendments. 9 May at 4 p.m. I also declare this item closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U99	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 602 on Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I would like to ask Jaak Alliku, Member of the Riigikogu, for a presentation by the initiator.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U100	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft submitted to you is intended to better ensure that the principles of democratic formation of the authorities of the municipality are respected in the activities of the municipal councils, to ensure that all electoral lists that have been admitted to the councils are represented in a proportionate manner on the committees of councils, and to actively participate in the planning and management of the committees' activities. The Riigikogu has dealt with several times with the question of whether local government councils follow the basic principles of democracy. The norm, according to which each member of the council is entitled to belong to at least one commission, added KOKS Riigikogu on 7 June 2006. The authors of the draft adopted by law on that occasion stated that the balanced participation of all the political forces represented in the council was not guaranteed. During the debate on the draft act, Urmas Reinsalu, then president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, stated that the members of the council could be pro rata to the opposition and coalition's right to participate in the work of the various bodies of the council. However, the time has shown that the legislative amendment made at that time has not been sufficient to guarantee this right. The procedure for setting up committees of councils has been left entirely to the issue of the statutes of local governments. A year later, on 4 May 2007, a member of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, addressed three questions to the Chancellor of Justice. Firstly, how can you understand the right of a council member to belong to at least one commission as provided for in Section 47 (1) of the COKS? Does this mean that a council member may choose this committee, or is it someone else competent to do it for him? Secondly, how can a council member of the opposition exercise his right to belong to at least one council committee if the coalition opposes it? Thirdly, is the legislation on the right of a council member to belong to committees sufficient, or does it need to be improved? In his reply to Mr Herkel, the Chancellor of Justice stressed, among other things, that when setting up committees, the Council must respect the principle of democracy and ensure a proportional representation of the Council's opposition in the composition of the committees. What is particularly important: the Chancellor of Justice found already in 2007 that if the objectives of the KOKS Amendment Act adopted by the Riigikogu have not been fulfilled and local authorities still have practice in place, according to which the meaning of the law and the democratic decision-making mechanism of the law are deviated and the opposition's representatives are being deterred from the work of the committees, it is undoubtedly reasonable to supplement the law appropriately. We are now faced with this task, for it must be acknowledged that such deviations are quite frequent. I do not want to accuse any particular party of this because, at local level, we are probably all sinners. For example, on 7 March 2014, four months after the last local elections, the reply by the Minister of Regional Affairs, Kiisler, to the violation of § 47 of the KOKS by Pala Vallavolikogu and the members of the Põlva Vallavolikogu. In his reply, the Minister refers to the fact that the members of the local council whose rights have been violated have turned to the administrative court, but the Supreme Court has confirmed in its ruling of 22 December 2008 that administrative remedies cannot be used under the current law to resolve disputes arising in internal relations within the local government. The Minister recommends that you contact the County Elder and ask him to monitor the legality of the individual acts of the local government. Unfortunately, there is no common understanding of this issue. For example, in response to the appeal of the Social Democratic Group of the City Council of Narva, the Mayor of Ida-Viru stated in his letter to the City Council of Narva on 30 January 2014 that the supervision of the matter in question was not the responsibility of the Mayor of the Land. However, he asked the City Council of Narva to resolve the situation without delay, which remained ineffective. This situation illustrates the need for legislative intervention. At present, it is the case that in some municipalities where each group of ambassadors has the right to be represented proportionally in all committees, this principle is also respected. However, in those municipalities where this is not provided for, practically the principle that the winner takes everything. The opposition ambassadors have been deprived of the opportunity to choose the committee to which they belong. The majority of the committees, made up of persons who are not members of the councils, are simply assembled in the council without taking into account the proposals of the opposition groups. In this respect, the draft law proposes to amend § 47 of the KOKS and to supplement it with the provision that the representation of the lists of political parties and electoral federations elected in the committees forming the council must be proportionate to their representation in the council. It is precisely such a procedure that would give substance and protection to the principle currently enshrined in the law that each member of the council has the right to belong to at least one committee, to which we propose to add, as a clarification, that the exercise of this right is based on a personal request from a member of the council. In the event that there will be more requests to belong to a committee than the group has the seats provided for in that committee, the group's own competence to regulate membership shall remain in its own hands. Thus, the same principle, which has justified itself in the Riigikogu, would essentially work. On the basis of the practice of the Riigikogu, we have proposed to change the procedure for the election of the presidents and vice-presidents of the local government council committees. As we know, they are not elected at the plenary session of the council, and otherwise it would not be conceivable, because unlike the committees of the Riigikogu, a number of members belong to the committees of local governments from outside the council. According to current practice, the council elects the chairmen and vice-chairmen of committees by separate votes, allowing both posts to be assigned to the council's so-called government coalition and to reject the opposition's committees from running and planning their work. I would like to bow down here to the City Council of Tallinn, where despite the fact that the Centre Party has an absolute majority there, it has been decided to set up two committees for the Vice-Chairs of the Commission and surrender one of them to the opposition. However, the Tallinn Council is an exception in this respect. In order to better protect the rights of the opposition and to improve the working atmosphere of the committees of the councils and make their work more effective, we propose that the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the committees be elected in local councils in a "package," i.e. at the same time as it has justified itself in the Riigikogu. This would, as a general rule, allow the Vice-Chairman of the Commission to become a representative of the opposition. Since complaints on this issue have come to a number of different institutions and on 20 October 2013 the councils have only just begun their four-year work, we propose that these provisions be applied to the councils already in operation. The draft thus provides that the membership of local government councils established before the entry into force of this Act and the election of the chairman and vice-chairman must be brought into line with the requirements of this Act within six months of the entry into force of the Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U101	Any questions for the waitress? Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U102	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a question about the individual wish of a council member to be a member of a particular committee. Of course, on the example of the Riigikogu and on the example of larger governments, it is good to rely on the fact that the group decides these things, but it is often not so organised at local level. How, then, can we resolve the situation if at one point all delegates want to be part of one Commission and no one wants to be part of the other? How, then, do we guarantee everyone's right to belong to the Commission we want?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U103	Thank you for your question. You mean a small municipality where there are no electoral alliances and there are perhaps 10 or 11 people on the council who all want to belong to the Committee on Education, for example. As soon as there are two lists, however, the composition of this Committee on Education can be divided: two and one or three and two. I also point out that, at local level, delegates may belong to several committees. The law merely states that everyone must belong to one commission, but the ambassador can also belong to several. And I know that, especially in small local governments, it is the fact that they belong to several committees. It is very difficult to set this out precisely in the law; we will have to rely on the rational action of the House or the Bureau of the Council. However, if you are able to make a sensible amendment for second reading, we are grateful.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U104	No further questions. Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to ask for a presentation by Mr Peep Aru, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U105	Good Chairman! Colleagues! We discussed this draft at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 15 April. Kalev Eagle and Indrek Saar gave explanations by the initiators. Ms Katariina Kärsten, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, also participated in the meeting. The Government of the Republic has made a positive assessment of the draft law; it supports it. In this committee's meeting, possible different situations were built in an attempt to find weaknesses in order to make the wording more foolproof with a view to the future. The most fundamental question that ran through the committee session was why the Riigikogu is trying to organise the local government's activities at all, if this is not an intervention in the self-regulation of local governments. However, in summary, the proposed solution had considerably more supporters, and when we came to the decision-making process, we made such decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session today, that the first reading should be completed by 7 members of the Commission, 2 votes against, 1 abstention and 10 working days set by the deadline for the amendments. The deadline would be May 9th at 4:00. This decision was taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U106	Now the questions. Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U107	I repeat the question that was put in the debate on the previous draft: these drafts are a little tied up. The previous one concerned members of the Riigikogu, and now it is the law on the organisation of local government. One will apply as soon as it enters into force. Could these drafts be viewed together because they concern the local government with the same thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U108	These drafts will certainly be discussed in this Chamber and also in the committees separately. That's pretty clear. As far as the deadline for entry into force is concerned, I think that the representative of the initiators spoke it out nicely about how they have thought about it. Whether this regulation will remain so is demonstrated by further discussion. The amendments proposed by the members of the Riigikogu are certainly welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-24_U109	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 602. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 9 May at 4 p.m. The debate on this item is closed and we have run out of all our sitting. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 12.05 p.m.
