ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the second Tuesday session of the VIIIth plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture, Ivari Padar. The content of this inquiry concerns the Estonian dairy sector. Our question is how the Estonian dairy sector will be able to compete on the European Union market if our dairy farmers' subsidies are the smallest in the European Union. Another important issue is that when our government coalition talks all the time about the added value of the product, it is now clear from the data of the Institute of Economics that 71 million euros of raw milk is being exported from Estonia. If we had earned this milk in Estonia, the price of the final product would have been three or four times higher. This would have provided substantial support to the state budget and at least 500 new jobs would have been created. How did this happen? Are we now a country that produces raw materials for Latvia and Lithuania? We have asked the Minister four questions on which we hope to get adequate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U3	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U4	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, According to the National Defence Commission s. A draft law amending the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act and the Order of the Defence Forces Act will be initiated by the National Defence Commission on 15 September 2005. The purpose of the draft is to close the gaps created by the Law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2014, relating to the use of the Defence Forces and the Defence Union during an emergency and emergency situation and to the implementation of direct coercion by the latter. The law on the organisation of the Defence Forces will be specified accordingly. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U5	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, According to the decision of its meeting on 15 September, the Committee on Foreign Affairs initiates the draft amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia'. The Committee on Foreign Affairs supported the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to appoint Andre Sepp instead of Jaanus Tamkivi as a member of the delegation. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu is to set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments on Friday 19 September at 16:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U7	Thank you. I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. They will then be dealt with in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U8	The first item is the Riigikogu members Aivar Rosenberg, Aivar Sõerdi, Andre Sepa, Arto Aasa, Etti Kagarov, Heljo Pikhofi, Igor Gräzini, Imre Sooääre, Indrek Saare, Jaak Allik, Jaanus Tamkivi, Jüri Jaansoni, Jüri Morozov, Kalev Kallemets, Kalev Kotkase, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Jents, Kalle Palling, Kalvi Kõutli, Karel Rüütli, Kristen Michali, Laine Randjärve, Lauri Luige, Maimu Bergi, Margus Hanson, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Mati Raidma, Meelis Mälbergi, Peep Aru, Rait Marustuse, Rein Randver, Tarmo Leinamme, Termi, Tõi Tõi and Tõi Son of the Constitutional Union of the Republic of Estonia. The initiators' waitress is Kalvi Tõud, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am sincerely pleased to have the opportunity to introduce to you the Act of Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by 41 colleagues, to reduce the election age of the local government council elections, or bill 703. The legal basis for initiating the draft is § 161 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, according to which at least one fifth of the composition of the Riigikogu is entitled to initiate the amendment of the Constitution. § 163 (2) of the Constitution allows for the adoption of the Act if it is in favour of two successive formations of the Riigikogu. We recall that according to the Constitution, under the conditions laid down in the Local Government Elections Act, permanent residents of the municipality who are at least 18 years old are entitled to voting rights. However, the purpose of the draft is to reduce the right to vote from 18 to 16 in the elections of every local government council. Good friends! 22 years have passed since the current text of the Constitution was drawn up and fixed in it by election, and Estonian society has undergone considerable development. Society is stabilized, advanced and mature. Our young people, who are more educated, more aware and better informed about society, have also become more mature. At the same time, their opportunities to contribute to shaping their living environment are limited. But with the impact of an objective demographic process, our society is ageing. Let us remember that over these years, we have given young people many rights and responsibilities. For example, a 14-year-old can be held responsible for a false or criminal offence. According to the Family Act, the court may extend the capacity of a person who has reached the age of 15 to perform the activities necessary for the conclusion of a marriage and the exercise of the rights and duties of a minor in accordance with the provisions of the extension of his capacity to work. A limited category B licence may be applied for at the age of 16. A person at least 16 years of age has also been granted the right to petition. Good friends! The idea of lowering the voting age has been discussed for many years; the Estonian Youth Association has been the leader of this topic. Our current colleague, former Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, has also carried this cart vigorously. Confirmation that the subject matter is topical gave the initiators of the draft an analysis of the impact of the reduction of the active selection age made by the Tallinn University Institute of State Sciences. According to the survey, as in other countries, 16-year-olds in Estonia are mature to vote in local elections. The analysis found that by lowering the voting age from 18 to 16 years of age, the electorate will increase by approximately 24000 potential voters, which represents 2 to 2.3% of the total electorate with the right to vote. The study also highlighted the need to balance older and younger voters in an increasingly ageing society. In fact, by 2020, the proportion of the retirement age population will already exceed the proportion of young people by 7.7%. In addition, the analysis raised a number of further arguments in favour of reducing the selection period. Young people's interest in politics and general social activity are comparable to those of adults. Out of young people aged 18, 73-80% plan to vote. Young people have an adequate perception of the role of political parties in the electoral process; 50% of 14-year-olds have a party preference. In the example of shadow elections, voices are spread quite the same as in the general population, so there is no reason for fear that giving young people the right to vote will lead to the favour of a particular party. Young people in Estonia are more familiar with civil society issues than their peers in other countries. All this was revealed in this study, which is available on the website of Tallinn University and the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, we all want more young people to be involved in discussing the issues of local life and taking part in the decision-making process. As the Estonian population is ageing, political involvement and decision-making are more and more inclined towards older voters, which is why older and older electorates make decisions on matters relating to the lives of young people. I am convinced that reducing the electoral age will bring youth issues to a greater social focus and will help to achieve the demographic balance of the electorate. Notably, non-citizens can also participate in municipal elections. Lowering the age of choice would give young people from non-citizens a greater opportunity to participate in social affairs and would therefore be an important additional factor in the further integration of society. Many of the topics of young people are specifically within the competence of the local government, which is why young people get their first political experience when deciding on matters directly relating to their own life, whether they relate to school networks, sports facilities, leisure places, youth work or other topical issues. The change could lead to the growing interest of young people in politics, the development of the state and local government in general. This is a good introduction to becoming a good citizen and also to think about national and European issues. This will show them how democracy works in practice. Young people aged 16 to 18 have their own interests and needs. They shall have the right to be heard and to take part in the taking of decisions through elections. Good friends! The initiators of the draft act are confident that 16-year-olds are mature and ready to take part in decisions at the municipal level. I sincerely ask that this bill be supported by members of both this and the future Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U10	Questions for the waitress. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U11	Thank you. Good waitress! You brought a lot of important arguments here and proved that young people are mature enough to make decisions. All that's left is to agree to it. However, there is only one question: why do you not support young people taking part in elections to the Riigikogu and the European Parliament? None of the arguments you brought here are specifically self-governing. In the same way, questions about young people's lives are decided in this Chamber. Why can't they choose their representatives here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U12	Thank you, my good colleague. I am sure many young people are ready to take part in all the elections, but the initiators are of the opinion that we are moving forward in this direction step by step. As I have pointed out, it is the decisions at local level that are most important to young people, in which they would like to have a say already, through various committees, in which they can contribute. We will move forward step by step, and there will certainly be a time when we will discuss in this Chamber how to give young people of this age the right to vote in other elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U13	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U14	Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum states that the purpose of the draft is to reduce the active right to vote (right to vote) from 18 to 16 years of age. Under the Local Government Election Act, local elections have the so-called passive right, i.e. the right to stand as a candidate to all citizens with a right to vote, unlike the Riigikogu elections, where the right to vote is known to be obtained at the age of 18 and the right to stand as a candidate at the age of 21. Is it also intended that if this amendment to the Constitution were to pass, what would be done with this point of the Local Government Election Act? Do you also introduce the age difference between passive and active electoral rights, as is the case in Riigikogu elections, or would it mean that the 16 and 17 years of age could also be members of councils?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U15	Thank you, my good colleague. As we read in the explanatory memorandum to the law, it is also necessary to amend the law on the election of the local government council when the Constitution is amended. I hope that our good experts in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will discuss these issues and give an exact answer on how we should change the law on the election of the local government council, but there is a need to change it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U16	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U17	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! In full agreement with you, it would be welcome if young people were more active in politics. The media have highlighted these young people, who are very impressed with this change. However, when I questioned the young people I met during the summer, the feedback was not so impressive. Some youths are indifferent, and there are those who think nothing of this matter, saying that there could be no change. But if we move on to the subject, both young people and school leaders have the fear that politics can pass on to school. That's not what you're suggesting. What message do you have for these young people and school leaders? How is it guaranteed that political lobbying does not go too far to school?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U18	Thank you. Many school leaders and young people really have the fear that politicians will come from the door and window to the schoolhouses, especially during an active election period. I'll bring you a parallel. If the school talks about internal security, security, who talks about it? Usually a local constable. Speaking of fire safety, the local savior will be present. As our politicians, when we walk through the door of school to raise young people politically, we must give them an overview of the different views of the world, we must not make propaganda there. But I think it is right that, when the civic education class is about politics, politicians could also be allowed in for a moment to speak specifically about politics. However, if this bill becomes a law, there is no doubt that such situations will also need to be regulated. In an active election period or at any other time, politicians should not really visit schools or do so-called political explaining work there. There's a threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U19	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I come back to the question raised by Mr Kiisler, namely the extension of the change from the municipal elections to the elections of the European Parliament and the Riigikogu. I did not understand your answer a bit, and that is why I would like to clarify. Do the initiators of the bill see the possibility that we will make these changes during this procedure, given that the Constitution is not for playing and the changes require the decision of the composition of the two Riigikogus? This is an opportunity now, because the subject is up just before the end of our term of office. If you see such an opportunity, give me the answer to that. You didn't see that coming in the bill you're on the table. Explain your position as to why you do not want to look at this issue in a complex way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U21	Thank you, my good colleague. As I said, 41 members of the Riigikogu have initiated this bill. Before initiating it, we discussed and considered different options seriously. We also considered whether to extend the amendment to the elections of the Riigikogu and the European Parliament, but the common position became such that we would move forward step by step and first give young people aged 16 to 18 the right to take part in municipal elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U22	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this presentation. My question primarily concerns such involvement within the Riigikogu. I see that the 41 initiators you mentioned mostly belong to coalition parties, not even mainly, but only. When this bill was handed over, quite a number of people in this Chamber were surprised that such a bill had been completed and that it had been asked to sign such a large number, but still a minority of members of the Riigikogu. I must admit that I personally was not aware that such a draft had been drawn up, and I was also not given the opportunity to examine the draft and perhaps to sign it in the same way. I understand that the draft has not been initiated by the political groups, but by the members of the separate Riigikogu. Did you think about asking for signatures from other members of the parliament, including those belonging to the opposition, or was it clearly only the initiative of members of the Riigikogu who belong to coalition parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U24	Thank you, my good colleague. Indeed, 41 members of the Riigikogu initiated this draft, but you can also support this bill by voting in favour of it. I hope in this and in the next Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U25	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Rock, hey, that's a funny story. I had a meeting last week. I was in a family with a 15-year-old boy named Lembitu, no matter what, not Russian, as you understand. It came up, and somehow the bill came up. I explained to him what and how. The boy stayed in his mind, then asked for more facts, and then began to meditate. He'll soon be 16 years old, he'll be given the right to choose, but to choose locally. He does not have the right to be elected, and he cannot choose either the europarlamento or the Riigikogu. He asked if he would then be equated with a Russian citizen who has a permanent residence permit in Estonia, why he, an Estonian citizen at birth, must receive such cut rights. I liked the question, anyway, funny. What do you think? Comment, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U27	Thank you, Mikhail! I hope you answered that question. Even now the cut right remains. One might ask why we do not give an election right to a person under 16, why in other laws we set an age limit for one right or another. It's a place of choice. I had a conversation just like you did in a family circle. There was no Lembitut, there was a girl named Katre, who is 14 years old and eagerly awaits this time, where she could also be involved in matters related to her home country, because she goes to school, goes to youth circles, music school and other places. Why don't we give him that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U28	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for this interesting presentation. I certainly support this proposal, and I think that young people today are already very interested in social problems. While attending school as a visiting teacher, I was convinced that they were perfectly capable of making wise choices. Why, however, have you decided that at the national level, you cannot start talking when you are 16? After all, a lot of policies concerning young people are made at national level, education policy, youth policy, and it could be interesting for young people to participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U30	Thank you, my good colleague. As I have already responded to my colleagues, 41 MPs launched this draft. There are certainly 41 who think that this right could be wider. There are also certainly those who think that it is right to give 16-year-olds the right right right to vote at local level. This is now their 41 people's agreement, and I hope that we will finally have a better decision if we move forward step by step. I do not rule out, as I said, that at some point in this very Chamber, the debate is that 16-year-olds should be given the right to vote in the other elections that you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U31	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U32	Thank you. Dear colleague, you said that young people need to be involved in many things. I mean, not only do they have to talk, they have to do something. Let's say there's a lot of talk about state security these days. Are you willing to give a young person 16 years of age plus 1 day with the possibility of political involvement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U33	This does not directly concern this bill, but surely our young people are just as good, as tough, as the schoolboys who walked out of the War of Independence for their homeland. I think that if there were to be a time like this that, I hope, wouldn't come, I would definitely trust them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U34	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U35	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I ask you, where have you come up with the idea that young people can't have a say in local life? Today, young people have a direct output through youth councils set up for local councils. Why, then, is this opportunity not being used and going down the path of amending the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U36	Thank you. Good colleague Tarmo! You could say I'm a very big fan of youth councils. This local government, where it once earned its bread, was one of the first to set up a youth council. And to this day, the youth council is elected, not appointed. But as I emphasised in my report, our citizens are ageing and the number of older people is increasing much faster than the number of young people. Since our young people have become really much more informed and informed over the years, as I have already said, after the adoption of the Constitution, why do we not use this potential, the opportunity to give them the right to vote and bring them more to active politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U37	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U38	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that young people wanted to talk about local government issues in particular. My personal experience is rather the opposite, that young people are more interested in national issues, not so much in these local concerns. Of course, people have different experiences, but do the initiators also have some kind of study to prove that they are interested in local issues? What will result from such a course? If there is a strong desire to move step by step, I think it would be more logical for us to allow young people to take part in Riigikogu elections first and then, if you want to move forward step by step, also in local and other elections. Young people certainly have a greater interest in Riigikogu elections than in local elections. Now, my question. Since you are here as a representative of the initiators, I ask this question: if there is an amendment to include the elections of the Riigikogu and the European Parliament in this draft procedure, would the initiators support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U39	Thank you, my good colleague. When these proposals come, the initiators will certainly discuss them. And since we have the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to deal with this draft, the fate of the amendments depends on the will of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U40	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I have looked at the conclusions of the analysis prepared by the Ministry of Justice, which you have drawn up in the explanatory memorandum to the draft. Several conclusions are absolutely correct. Indeed, when we make the elections, the group of people who take decisions in society etc. is clearly expanding. However, there was one point in the conclusions that I thought I would ask you how to understand. You have said that the reduction in the electoral age will counter demographic ageing. What do you mean by that? I understand that society is ageing demographically. If we vote in favour of reducing the electoral age and adopt this change, will demographic ageing decrease or stop? Why don't you explain it to me? It got a little crazy for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U42	Thank you, my good colleague. The explanatory memorandum states that because society is ageing and the elections are currently limited to 18 years of age, there is a tendency that the proportion of older people will increase. It is not meant that with this bill, the people would immediately rejuvenate and the birth would be considerably increased, which you may have meant. It has been requested here that in the social process and in the elections when decisions are taken, at the local level now, age groups be more balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U43	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U44	Thank you. Honourable waitress! One of the slogans of the current government coalition is openness and greater involvement. We are dealing with a bill that has not been submitted by the government, but is initiated by members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber. In order for this bill to be approved, the majority of the Riigikogu must be supported. I cannot understand why the initiators of the draft have gone this way, that they have discussed it with the minority in Parliament before submitting the draft, and that they have not even been asked for an opinion, nor have they been offered the opportunity to sign it. How will this contribute to the processing and cooperation of the draft in Parliament? In your answers, you have said that you have considered and discussed very thoroughly the various aspects. What were the considerations why you chose to exclude Parliament from initiating the draft majority?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U45	Thank you, my good colleague. If you drew attention to the inclusion of your question in the coalition agreement, then the current government coalition will certainly take all its decisions and drafts by sending a very large number of contributions to this Chamber. In the case of this bill, the turn of the Estonian Youth Association, which was sent to all political groups, I hope, also to you, gave a final impetus. They appealed to the Riigikogu to initiate this bill now because the decision of the composition of two successive Riigikogus is required for adoption. These 41 members of the Riigikogu listened to the request of the Estonian Youth Association and initiated this bill. This is certainly not only the opening of these people in this Riigikogu. I hope that you, too, will support this bill, thus also expressing support for this principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U46	Vladimir Velman, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U47	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Maybe I've missed something, I don't remember that our Rules of Procedure have been changed, but every other question will definitely take over a minute: a minute ten, a minute fifteen seconds. Can we ask questions in more than one minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U48	Thank you for your comment. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will return to inclusion. You belong to a group that spoke about involvement for quite a few years while in opposition. In particular, there was a need to involve the opposition in such drafts, which are not party-political, but concern the amendment of the constitution, in order to give the opportunity to participate also to those who do not belong directly to the coalition. As we understand, the majority of the Riigikogu was not approached when drafting and initiating this draft. How do you feel it wouldn't have been nice to give the opportunity to join the bill and sign for those who are not part of the coalition? Perhaps you will explain what your consideration was that you only took 41 signatures when you introduced a draft law amending the Constitution, which is not a normal draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U50	Thank you, my good colleague. These 41 members of the Riigikogu did not consider or discuss how many members of the Riigikogu and how we involve them. We discussed the content of this amendment in order either to limit only to the reduction of the age of active electoral rights in municipal elections or to extend it to other elections. If I were to answer you honestly right now, it would have been beautiful. Yeah, it would have been nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U51	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U52	Good waitress! I really appreciate your desire to exclude the school from the election propaganda, but I'm afraid if the target group gets there, it'll probably be propaganda. We cannot pass the law that election propaganda is allowed in a retirement home and prohibited in school. Isn't it like sex? When I was growing up, it was forbidden to talk about sex in school, and now sexual education has been in the sixth grade. I dare say that, unless politics is spoken of at school, we will be raised by an unconscious and manipulative voter. Perhaps it is safe to say that it is necessary to talk about politics at school. I believe that 16 and 17 years old are also so intelligent that they quickly learn who is talking nonsense and who is lying and who isn't. How do you comment on this maybe a little unusual approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U53	As I pointed out before, it is true that when the school talks about internal security and security, a policeman or a rescuer is called. However, it is often questioned whether it is appropriate to invite a politician when it comes to politics. I believe that we all have great work to do to explain in our schools what the political system is, the history of politics. I think, in many ways, this is also our work here to increase the political awareness of young people. The Estonian Youth Association has proposed a series of things that could be done before this bill comes to this hall for the second time. One really is that more education is needed for young people at political level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U54	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U55	Thank you, dear waitress. I am going to extend this subject a little further and ask you this: what do you think about giving every citizen the right to vote and setting out who will actually exercise that right, what will the child do from the age of, and when will his or her mother or father do it? This means really giving every Estonian citizen the right to vote from the moment he was born and then, for example, providing that he or she will exercise it himself or herself from the age of 16, but before that, his or her parent. I mean, that would even counterbalance the election situation. And like you said, our laws haven't been changed for a very long time, maybe it's time to change them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U56	Thank you, my good colleague. On this subject we were seriously able to debate with your good groupmate, Siim Kiisler, at the conference 'Vote@16' and I know that the idea of your group, the desire of whatever we call it, is to extend the right to vote to parents as well. It has to be said that, in the context of this draft, the initiators did not consider it appropriate at the moment, and we restricted ourselves to the right to vote in local elections to 16-year-olds. But I think it makes sense to discuss this, even in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U57	Mikhail Stalnukhin, a question in one minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U58	Thank you. Dear waitress, It's a good thing nobody really listens to what we're talking about here. Your answer was no propaganda at school, but we need to call politicians. After that, I looked left and right here, looked at the faces of colleagues I loved to death, and I tried to imagine who of us, including me, would be able to go to school without propaganda? There are no such people among us. The question, however, is quite different. I am in solidarity with the previous questioner so that this right can be extended. I mean, in the case of 16-year-olds, it's understandable, by then they've been having sex for two years, and if it already exists, you can choose in any case. But where is this study that would say that a person gets so mature that he can choose when he is 11 years, 7 months and 30 days old?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U59	Your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U60	Good colleague! There are a lot of answers to this issue in an impact analysis carried out by the Tallinn University Institute of State Sciences. They have conducted surveys among young people and have also analysed the practices of those countries that have downgraded Austria, many of the German Länder. They have come to such conclusions. I rely on their research to make my decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U61	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The explanatory memorandum provides the opinion of many experts that if the draft is adopted, the current social education syllabus should be reviewed and, if necessary, supplemented and amended. Have you also discussed with the people of the Ministry of Education what changes are expected in the curriculum of social studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U63	Thank you, my good colleague. The honest answer is that you haven't discussed it. But it will certainly be discussed during the process, and, as I said, apart from these respected social figures, the Estonian Youth Association has made a series of proposals that must be seriously analysed, taken into account during this period, and then our executive authorities will also have to make changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U64	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U65	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The Internet makes it very easy for us to look at the maps of the countries of the world and to compare countries by continent, not just within Europe. Indeed, elections vary from 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21. You can also find countries where there is no limit to the age of choice, that age is zero, that children choose for as long as they are of age, adults. If you look at other indicators from one country to another, such as the minimum age, to get married, by the way, men and women are different in some countries, to deal legally with prostitution, to drink alcohol, you can see that the more young people get rights at an early age, the more responsibilities will come. In fact, from one country to another, when the right to marry is granted as a young person, the right to vote is also granted as a young person. Do you think that's justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U66	I'm sure it's justified. As I said in my presentation, we have given young people a series of responsibilities and rights since we were 16. We will then give them the opportunity, even to some extent through municipal elections, to shape their lives. You brought out an election age here in different countries. Austria is perhaps indeed the country whose experiences have been the main source of information from the initiators of the draft law, and I have also listened to the lecture of the Austrian specialist in this area. So there are certainly those countries where elections have been made, and I fully agree with you that once we have given young people responsibilities, we will also give them an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U67	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U68	Thank you. Good waitress! Has it also been studied how reducing the age of choice affects school life, what are its consequences in school? If teachers and directors apply and there is active electoral intervention at school, how can we keep school life and politics separate? Is it even possible to restore normal school life after the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U69	Good colleague Tarmo! Certainly schools differ from one another, certainly there are very different schools. Some schools have more questions after this bill becomes a law, some less. We know how actively young people in Parking School in our neighborhood are asking how aware they are. The school has invited representatives of all the political forces, I think I've even been there with you. At the same time, there are indeed schools where politicians are not allowed in, the principle is that politicians do not walk through our school door. Now the question is whether we must therefore leave the noble purpose unformed as a law. I don't believe that. However, the Minister of Education and the school leaders, before the bill becomes a law, certainly have a piece of work to consider how to reduce the possibility of manipulating young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U70	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U71	Thank you. Good waitress! Over the years, turnout has been very low among young people. Why, then, do you think that it is young people who should be given more election opportunities? Perhaps it should have been considered how to increase turnout among the young people who are currently in a position to choose. Didn't such thoughts go through how to increase turnout?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U72	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. From the same study led by Anu Toots, which was carried out by the Institute of State Sciences of Tallinn University, I cannot describe this sample in detail at the moment, the study is voluminous, 60 pages and it can be accessed, it turned out that it was these 16- to 18-year-olds who claimed that they wanted to go to the vote and that they had a firm political conviction to choose from. Of course, the problem is not only for younger people, but we must motivate everyone to participate more in the elections, make every effort to get people to choose more, including those 18+ who can now walk through the polls for the first time on this day of the celebration of democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U73	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U74	Thank you. School and politics have become a very lively topic of discussion today. Your party partner, my colleague Jaak Allik, was worried that sexual education was starting in the sixth grade, but political school is not being educated. In fact, it is also politically educated, because civic and social education is within schools and, of course, it also opens a political world for young people. My question, however, comes from one of your answers, where you said that politicians should not be in school during an active election campaign. How do the initiators of the bill mean that, and what did you mean by that? We are now talking about a proposal concerning participation in local elections, and we know that school teachers, not to mention school directors, are just active candidates for local elections. Shouldn't they be visiting school at that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U75	Thank you, my good colleague. Absolutely not. In answering one of the first questions, I admitted that yes, this is a problematic issue. What matters is precisely how we rule out propaganda at school. As I said, the Minister of Education, the Estonian Youth Association, all of us have enough work to do before this bill becomes a law. We need to analyse all options for minimising this risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U76	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U77	Thank you. I fully agree with the statement in the draft explanatory memorandum that young people are considerably more mature, more educated, more aware and better informed about the affairs of society. I will continue with the question where Imre Sooäär ended. I didn't understand your answer. Young people are currently not allowed to buy a single share of Tallinn Water, even though it has a nominal value of 60 euro cents because society has not trusted him. At the same time, we say that he is completely competent to be a co-decidor about whether or not all the share capital of Tallinn Water should, for example, be owned by one municipality. Is it not really a question of bringing the limit of adulthood to 16 years of age, because otherwise we will remain here to resolve these completely absurd contradictions? Has it been under discussion in the preparation of the draft or in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U78	Thank you. This topic was not discussed in the discussions of the 41 initiators of the draft law. But if you ask my opinion, I think it could be done and analyzed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U79	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U80	Thank you. I myself have a positive view of this issue. Even before the previous Riigikogu elections, there were debates on this topic, where more active young people from different regions took part, and I dare say that a maximum of 10% of them were genuinely interested in this topic. They told me to go pick out and pick out who makes the coolest ad. Fair enough. The almost nonexistent percentage was for those who really shared something. The main message was that they did not really care or even become interested in the subject. Is the purpose of this bill to train children, to do so through elections, or is there some hidden motive to try to get votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U81	Thank you, my good colleague. It is not known to me that anyone has a hidden ulterior motive for getting votes with it. As I said, shadow elections show that support for political parties is distributed to young people in a manner similar to the overall election results. So I don't dare say that was the reason to start. I can safely say that in almost four years since the previous elections, the Estonian Youth Association has done a very good job and motivated many municipalities to form or choose how to do somewhere, youth councils. Perhaps there are many young people, let us say, informed and raised, also through this activity. Perhaps this has been a process that gives the courage to believe that more and more young people want to come to the ballot box on this day of the celebration of democracy to make their decision. But just as there are people in every age group who say they never go to pick, there are young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U82	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U83	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! A good colleague, Liisa Pakosta, asked a very good question and took the words out of my mouth. I wanted to get to the exact same place with my question, but we ran out of time. This is precisely the broader concept of adulthood and the relationship between rights and obligations. If I gave examples of countries in the world here before, then in fact not only the right to choose but also the right to be elected will be given at very different ages from one country to another. For example, in the European Parliament elections, this age is 18, 21, 23 or 25 years old in the EU countries. So perhaps, in order for rights and obligations to be in balance, the procedure of the draft law should also discuss what we really understand about adulthood and when there is a right to make certain decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U84	Thank you, good Imre! I hope our Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste, heard your question. I sincerely believe that, while discussing this draft law, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will certainly raise the question of whether we should move in the direction of granting all rights to adults from the age of 16. I think this subject is worth the debate, and I would like to take part in some of these debates myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U85	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U86	Thank you very much. Good waitress! There is certainly one very interesting and serious issue that needs to be debated really, because, as colleagues have said here, it has a lot of aspects. We're saying that when you're 16, you're already an adult, but sometimes you're 25 and 26 years old still want to be a father-mother and far from an adult. However, as the turnout of young people is very low, I wonder whether this change will give us a large number of people, young people, who will come to the ballot boxes. I think the main problem is that this day of the celebration of democracy has become a non-party day for a very large number of people. Maybe we should think more seriously in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U87	Thank you. I'm sure we should think about it. Definitely! But this does not preclude us also giving young people aged 16 to 18 the right to choose. And as I have said many times, referring to this same study by the Tallinn University Institute of State Sciences, young people are motivated to come to the vote. I can only believe the conclusions of their study. We certainly cannot hope that the turnout among these young people will be significantly higher than in other age groups. Election activity still reflects the attitude of our society as a whole towards elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U88	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U89	Thank you. During the last centuries, all kinds of censorships have been constantly lost in the elections, and it is likely that the lowering of the electoral age will go into this logical line. Whatever we decide here today or with the next Riigikogu, in the future, the elections, both active and passive, will certainly continue to fall. Perhaps it would be worth thinking about excluding this specific regulation from the Constitution at all, leaving a reservation for age censorship in the law. Then, more dynamically and without going into the Constitution, decisions could be taken on the decision-making stage or on passive and active voting rights. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U90	I have been familiar with the protocols of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and you have also pointed out this reasoning at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, according to the initiators of the draft law, elections should be enshrined in the Constitution. Since the elections are relatively important and we do not rush to change it all the time and play it figuratively, as I have said many times here, the initiators of the draft law still believe that this good colleague, Jaak, could be in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U91	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The question that has arisen in this Chamber today is whether, if this bill were to be implemented, there would be very serious failures in school and political propaganda at school. On the other hand, it has been said that the turnout of young people is very low. The same can be said of other electoral groups. Whether people live in a country, in a city or wherever, or whether they are students with numbers and figures are different. Do you think that this bill could help to increase electoral activity in Estonia at all and to increase the political awareness of one of the target groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U93	A good colleague, yes, I think the turnout would increase with this. We are already involving our citizens in the decision-making process and this will certainly increase the turnout. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U94	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U95	Thank you very much. In general, I am not so optimistic that voter turnout could increase thanks to this draft. I was an optimist thinking that if we put in an online vote, it would bring us a lot of young people who would choose. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. I am still deeply concerned that we are going to talk about a whole new electoral group, but we are not trying to unthink why a certain number of young people from the age of 18 are not active. And they're not really active. For example, if we take our brightest young people, students, only a very small percentage of students will participate in student council elections. It already shows something's wrong. If we want them to be politically active, we must work very seriously in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U96	Thank you. I agree. It has already been said here that by giving young people the right to vote from the age of 16, we need to educate them a little more politically. This has also been highlighted by the Estonian Youth Association in its letter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I hope that it is precisely when they feel that they can contribute to these issues at local level, at their school, that they will be encouraged and motivated in the future to participate more actively, both in the university and elsewhere, in the collections elected by society, the community. I hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U97	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U98	Thank you, dear waitress. From your previous response, I realized that the position of 41 initiators is that young people could be granted the right to vote, but not the right to stand as a candidate, which is not the goal yet. At the same time, the Constitution does not state who can apply in local governments. This is clear from the Local Government Council Election Act, which says very simply that if you are an Estonian citizen and you have the right to vote, you will automatically also have the right to apply. So it is as if, as a next step, you should begin to amend this law and deprive these young people of their right to stand as candidates. Is that part of the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U99	Dear colleague Kadri! If you are taking the draft explanatory memorandum, the last paragraph of point 2 'Language law' states that if an amendment enters into force, the law on the election of the local government council will also have to be amended. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U100	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U101	Thank you. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that young people today are considerably more mature than young people 22 years ago. How have you appreciated this maturity? Twenty - two years ago, many young people worked and earned money. They had to manage their own day-to-day management. To compare today, this relationship is quite the opposite; many young people do not even have a job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U102	Thank you, dear colleague Peter. Since you are now the last questioner, permission to give a half-humorous answer: if you look at my own family, my daughter is more active than I was in my day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U103	I didn't suspect you of having a bad attitude to politics, I just pointed out that we ourselves wouldn't cultivate this idea that politics is something black in itself that we need to stay away from. As regards the application of upper secondary school teachers or directors, they also have the right to take part in elections, to vote and to be elected. It's their constitutional right. This, too, is a question of development and growth, insofar as they use or do not take advantage of their position to influence the environment of their schools. We'll take advantage of our position if we go somewhere and explain some views. This is a normal political process and it is not bad in itself. But the way it's done can be bad. To think that schoolchildren are highly influenced by the fact that I personally do not think so. If you force them to do something, they'll fight the hooves and do the opposite. At least that's what my kids did. And I have seen other young people who, when they are being subjected to intense pressure, are not subject to that pressure, or are determined to do the opposite. Rather, I see the danger that an older age group, a little older than me, is more likely to be influenced by election agitation and so on. I don't see a big problem here. All of this requires certain ripening and development, but it is natural.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U104	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U105	Thank you. I will continue with where Mr Efendiev finished, and not only Mr Efendiev, but also several others from this Chamber, touched on this issue. Quite a number of debates have also talked about this threat, as if politics or election campaign could get between school walls. The fact is that many 18 to 19-year-olds currently have the right to vote in upper secondary school. What do you think this situation is in schools today? Is there a similar risk that the campaign will force schools, or is it rather a matter of school rules and regulation, and in fact the situation is under control?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U106	Yeah, good pointing attention! I must say that I personally am not very familiar with today's school life. I'm in an older age group, and attention is focused elsewhere. But pointing attention is right, maybe we can see a ghost where it doesn't exist. As shown by Austria's experience in reducing the age of election, they are very pleased with the result that there is a substantive debate at school on matters of state and political life. On a real level, not learn from textbooks, what the Bundesrat is, what the government is and what someone does. There is a real exchange of views between different world views, it is a discussion, a debate, with which people can become more aware and make informed choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U107	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U108	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In dealing with this issue, as you have already talked about here, you have certainly met many specialists and opinion leaders and analysed the effects in many Member States, where the elections are already a little lower than in our country. Have tests or talks revealed how young people behave? For example, do rural youths and urban youths behave differently? Manoors have very narrow opportunities to participate in the circle of interest, sports circles, etc. City youths have much greater opportunities, shopping malls are open until half the night, it is possible to hang out there. Are rural and urban youths acting differently in any way, and are their thoughts different?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U109	I understand your question, but I have to be honest with you that I have not examined this nuance separately. However, it was evidently studied or observed in a study conducted by Anu Toots. I don't remember him bringing up the differences between urban and rural youth, but he made it clear that the political behaviour of young people is very similar to the behaviour of the main electorate group, i.e. they are more or less equally distributed between the left-wing and the right-wing worldview. In this sense, the change does not lead to any significant differences in politics that anyone wins or loses. It is clear that young people have their own views and that these views change over time. Sometimes Winston Churchill has been quoted, who said that when he was young, he was not left, he had no heart, and he was old on the left, he had no mind. But all of this is the natural development of generations and the development of views. We'll see how things turn out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U110	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U111	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, The aim of this idea and draft is to involve more young ideas in Estonian politics and local government activities. In the Commission, an idea was discussed in this same context, which, fortunately, in a few countries has been implemented. This is about setting an age limit for election, i.e. when a citizen reaches a certain age, he no longer has the right to vote. In the Commission, you found that this idea deserves to be considered, and it has a complexion. I'm the opposite of that. Do you continue to think that there should be some kind of limit on the choice, I mean the ceiling?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U112	Good colleague! For the sake of saving time, I didn't read the whole protocol. Indeed, you raised this issue in the committee sitting, but I did not mention it here. As a thought game, of course, you can talk about it, but I think that maybe it's not entirely justified on the issue of equal treatment of people. Let's say, towards the end of our earthly life, some of us lose adequate contact with society, an understanding of society, while at the same time formally still being a voter. There is a problem, but I believe it is not so big that we should deal with it separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U113	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U114	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U115	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, The question: has any other age been discussed in the Commission when it comes to reducing age? Why is such an age as 16, why not 17, if we want to do it step by step? Or why not 14, which is also a relatively mature age, since young people are now developing very quickly. Why is it 16 and has there been some kind of study?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U116	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kalvi! In society, it has often been said recently that we are, like, trying to extend our children's childhood to the end of high school and to the university. It's got a feeling that young people don't want to be responsible, that they just want to be nice. Do you think that this bill and the proposal to bring the elections down at local level could put a greater burden on young people and thus make their attitude more serious and responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U118	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U119	Thank you, Mr Kadri. The 41 members of the Riigikogu who initiated this draft law really meant that the election of local government councils would place active electoral rights from 18 years to 16 years. An active right to vote is a right to vote. It's like there's no right to apply, but there's a right to choose. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft law, this is a sensible step.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U120	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 703 was initiated on 1 July in accordance with the procedure laid down for this purpose. a and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this draft was discussed on 8 September. a. In addition to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Paloma Krõõt Tupay, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, and Kristen Kanarik, adviser to the Minister of Justice were present. The initiators were represented by a speaker here. By letter of 7 August, the Government of the Republic supported the draft. The Riigikogu Constitutional Committee has discussed the issue twice in recent years. This was discussed for the first time on 23 April 2012, when a public hearing of the Constitutional Committee was held, where the then Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, the Head of Youth Policy of the Estonian Youth Association Edgar Rootalu, and Anu Toots, the head of comparative administrative policy at Tallinn University. For the second time, the same subject was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. A public session of 3 June, which introduced the impact of reducing the active selection age of the analysis prepared in cooperation with the Tallinn University Institute of State Sciences and the Ministry of Justice. According to § 122 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the initiators of the draft Constitutional Amendment Act state in the explanatory memorandum the manner in which they wish to adopt the Constitutional Amendment Act. According to § 163 (1) of the Constitution, the Constitution can be amended by a law that has been passed, firstly, in referendums, secondly, by two successive formations of the Riigikogu, and thirdly, as urgent by the Riigikogu. The initiators of the draft act prefer to amend the Constitution by two successive formations of the Riigikogu, i.e. the composition of the Riigikogu XII and the next composition of XIII during 2015. This proposal was tacitly approved by the Commission. Now, more about the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There was quite an active debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and a number of questions were put, so this should be limited to an overview. First of all, Urmas Reinsalu asked whether the initiators did not wish to lower the elections in the Riigikogu elections. The speaker replied that it was a desire to move forward step by step and that it was not excluded that a reduction in the election age would ever be achieved in the Riigikogu elections. Urmas Reinsalu then asked whether young people were ready to make decisions on matters concerning the future of the country. Again, the speaker replied that there was a difference between national decision-making and local decision-making. National decision-making requires greater social awareness, more meaningful choices, and therefore requires higher qualifications and greater knowledge. Urmas Reinsalu then asked what qualifications required the exercise of the active right to vote. The speaker explained that young people are better acquainted with their daily environment in which they live. They know it through their parents, friends, and local people. The national level is more abstract for them and therefore it might be more reasonable to limit the time for selection to the local government level. Jaak Aaviksoo pointed out that the purpose of the draft cannot be to reduce the voting time by itself, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft, but it is merely a means. The aim of the proposal should be to involve society more widely, regardless of age, public life and strategic decision-making should involve all sections of the population. That's what they agreed to. It was then discussed whether the Constitution should be fixed by specific elections. We exchanged views on this and found that the Constitution should not, in itself, be fixed by specific elections, because if there is a need to change something next time, we should again initiate this complex procedure to reduce the deadline for selection. In this sense, I personally agree with the position expressed by Mr Aaviksoo. Priit Toobal asked whether the initiators of the draft did not consider lowering the candidate age in the municipal elections, apart from reducing the voting age. The speaker replied that there was a practical problem. In fact, council meetings may end up at a time when the 16-year-old must be in school work. Moreover, a popular 16-year-old youth among his peers may not necessarily be a good expert at the local government council to make meaningful and meaningful decisions there. Tarmo Tamm asked why the Constitution should be amended to resolve this issue and whether it would not be more appropriate to introduce a provision in the Local Government Organisation Act (KOKS) that representatives of youth councils should be included in local government councils. The answer here was that, unfortunately, with the elections, we have laid down in the Constitution and can only be regulated by amending the Constitution. The Local Government Election Act should be amended next. Tarmo Tamm also pointed out that the Riigikogu made a number of proposals that required the amendment of the Constitution and asked why the amendment of the Constitution did not come out in response to the Riigikogu's proposals. He considered the change in choice time to be a thoughtless and foolish step. The speaker did not agree with this because the topic of the debate in the Riigikogu was, for example, the direct election of the President, on which the Centre Party has proposed, but this would require a transformation of the entire architecture of the Constitution and would be a much larger undertaking. This would require a new political consensus which does not appear today. Andres Anvelt, the Minister of Justice pointed out the opinion of the Government of the Republic and pointed out that the reduction of the electoral age also entails certain organisational costs, which are small, but it is right to point out that it is not cost-free. This remark was accepted in substance by the initiators. But all this will only be possible once we have reached the next stage in the procedure for the draft. Tarmo Tamm went on to ask whether it would be wise to change the constitution or to continue with established practice where young people can participate in youth councils, or to give them the opportunity to participate in council committees. Andres Anvelt replied that the experience of the countries that have gone down this path, i.e. the elections, has been lowered by Austria, Slovenia, Hungary, Malta, some federal states in the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, has shown that we should give this age group greater opportunities to participate in public debate, social life. In this case, decisions would not be inclined and the involvement of young people would be greater than if they had the opportunity to appear only through youth councils. Furthermore, it should also be taken into account, for example, that the Scottish referendum, where Scotland's future is being voted on, will also be open to the participation of the 16-year-old voters. Tarmo Tamm also pointed out that the reduction in the age of voting rights has a very direct impact on the target group of young people, and therefore a revision of other legislation governing young people should probably be envisaged in the future. That's what we've been talking about here today. Andres Anvelt agreed. But the first step is to get to the bottom of the vote and then to do the things that result from the decision to make, i.e. to correct the rights and freedoms of young people in accordance with the decision made. Rein Lang finally pointed out that there must be at least three months between the first reading and the second reading of the draft Constitutional Amendment Act and at least one month between the second and third readings, i.e. we are relatively limited to this process. At the end of the debate, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 16 September. a (this was a consensual decision). Secondly, it was proposed that the first reading be closed (by 6 votes to 1, with 1 abstention) to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at one month, 16 October. a (this was a consensual decision) and appoint a speaker as rapporteur. I have thus introduced to you what was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U122	I am sincerely convinced that our 16-year-olds are mature to take part in the elections. I believe that very many of these young people, who are actively involved in several youth organisations in school, want to have a say in the decision-making of local life, and also want to do so through the elections. I think that by giving them the right to vote, we invite them to speak more locally. Maybe they'll think about their municipality of residence a few minutes longer before they go to college or maybe make some bread. If they get such a good experience, a good opportunity to get involved, maybe they'll come back to this place someday. I think, in any case, it increases active citizenship, I am more than convinced of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U123	Thank you. This will certainly increase active citizenship. Listening to this debate here, I wonder how this is going to be, whether the young people want this law or whether it is such a good act of young people who are lucky, and we want to give them a commitment from the top to start talking now, we will give you this opportunity, hoping that the young people will be more interested in this subject. Is there only one study? I have also spoken well to many young people and understood that they do not really have such a direct interest. They claim that they are not mature yet and are not ready to make that decision; they simply do so at the last moment according to their guts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U124	Thank you, my good colleague. Is this a bill that a small group of young people wants? I do not believe this because the society leader of the bill is the Estonian Association of Youth Associations. The Estonian Youth Association brings together the majority of Estonian youth associations. I think they've been discussing these things at their forums and other events. Youth associations all over Estonia include a large number of young people who are very active. Behind the Estonian Youth Association, who proposed to all political groups to initiate this bill, it is not a small group, but it brings together very many of Estonia's active young people. That's the way I'm gonna believe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U125	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U126	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your previous answer, and I will continue in the same way, because there has already been such a good mutual understanding. I have also spoken to many young people in support of this idea, and I have always had trouble answering one question. Maybe you can help me figure out that answer. If a minor wishes to go to work, he or she needs the parental's written consent and may not work for more than half of the school vacation period during school holidays. How can I explain to a 17-year-old that in order for him to sell walrus during school vacation, he needs parental consent, he can't do it for more than two and a half days and then he can do it with a reduced working day, but at the same time we trust him with full voting rights. Where that logic is, a young person asks. Now, be nice, explain to a young person where that logic is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U127	Good Liisa! It seems that there is no logic, and I very much hope that the processing of this bill here in the Riigikogu will open the doors for discussion of many other topics. For example, the issues that Imre Sooäär drew attention to and that you are drawing attention to. Maybe someday we'll get to the point of handing out other rights to those young people we're talking about here today to all adult rights. I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will also draw some attention to these points when dealing with the draft law. We can hear it from the next waitress, Rait Marust. I sincerely hope that this bill will begin an active debate in society and here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U128	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U129	Thank you. I'll continue with my last question. I believe you agree that the amendment of the Constitution is a very important and important step. This means that it must be done in a prudent manner and that all the nuances involved must be thoroughly considered. I therefore ask once again about the possibility of family selection and, accordingly, about the amendment of the constitution. You said that you did not discuss the possibility of giving all citizens a voice and a certain age, until 16, for example, exercising this right through parents. What do you think in person? Are there any pros and cons here? Which way do you tend to think, what are your own considerations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U130	Thank you, my good colleague. As I said before, I have somewhat debated this issue with my colleague, Mr Kiisler, at the conference 'Vote@16', and I have a number of other questions about this idea. If I can argue with him a few more times, I'll shape my position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U131	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! The thing about young people is, unfortunately, they're very mobile. After comprehensive school, the majority of students, hopefully from the point of view of state policy, will either go to a vocational school, which is mostly in a different municipality, or to a state secondary school, which is also in another municipality. This bill is based on young people living in their local government, going to school there and therefore being able to participate in the decision-making process. What if they live in a different place, perhaps with their parents abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U133	Thank you. My life experience on this issue has shown that when you go to the two schools, vocational education centres and state secondary schools that you have mentioned, the students will mostly remain in the local self-government of their place of residence. As the decision-making of these issues is national, local authorities do not usually speak up on VET and state secondary school issues. There are certainly questions when young people move to other municipalities, for example, go to municipal school or upper secondary school. In this case, the decision is indeed taken at the council of another municipality, not where they may be entitled to their rights. But not all of these nuances could be taken into account when initiating the draft law, since adult people sometimes live in one municipality and go to work and use services in other municipalities. Well, there are some differences and anomalies here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U134	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U135	Thank you. Dear waitress, Let me ask you something very basic. I will listen to your answers and wonder why you are always talking about the right to vote for the 16-year-olds, but not at the same time talking about their right to participate in the work of councils, or their right to be elected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U136	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U137	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! How do you assess whether this is the right direction? It is obvious that this raises questions when bringing Estonian politics to the upper secondary school level. It can be said that after that, the school is no longer a politically independent institute, but a politically involved institute.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U138	Thank you. We discussed this issue both among ourselves and within the Commission. Your question assumes that politics itself is somehow bad or biased or propaganda. If we support this understanding or talk about it like that, then maybe that's what it looks like. In fact, politics is about discussing and making decisions about public life. Personally, I see no harm in it if our society also participates in the discussion of public affairs at school. The young generation will be better heard through this and will be better informed about how society works in the future. This is only good for democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U139	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U140	Thank you. Good waitress! I left my question specifically for you because you are such a sophisticated person and an undisputed authority in your field. The fulfillment of the 16th year is an important path to becoming a fully-fledged citizen. How do you feel about the balance between the rights and obligations of a 16-year-old person in the current legal area?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U141	Thank you. Today, we've already had some questions about some things that look a little funny. It's just restrictions on the work of people of this age group and various other regulations. They should be reviewed. However, we must bear in mind that there is not such a breaking point that there is a child until 16 years of age, then there is a snippet and the next day he is a mature adult with all his understanding and competences. There is a certain transition period, it is natural-minded and understandable. There are certain things that we should perhaps limit or regulate to ensure that competence is adequate. We should consider the transition period. We've all slowly grown smarter and smarter ourselves. So this element has to be taken into account, it's not that maturity simply follows the passport. Step 1 would certainly be to bring down this age. If we can do this, other decisions concerning the rights and freedoms of young people in society, the way they function as citizens and their involvement in political life will spread from there. But that is a perfectly relevant question and a point.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U142	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U143	Thank you. Honourable waitress! An analysis of the effects of reducing the age of active electoral rights can be found in the explanatory memorandum. Professor Anu Toots has pointed out that reducing the selection age does not entail undesirable risks and that the existence and strength of the positive effect depend on efforts. Professor Toots also says that the meaningful and purposeful functioning of the decision-making period would require a more effective realisation of the social education syllabus. When I was asked how I felt about reducing my age of choice, I was thinking about school and social studies, too. My question is whether educational workers and specialists have also been consulted. Is the curriculum of social education at such a level that the young person who turns 16 is sufficiently aware of the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U144	Thank you. You have a good point and the right question. I, too, see the greatest problem as how to prepare young people. We should probably critically review our social education so that it is not only a dry textbook wisdom, but also a lot of practical, direct contact and discussion. On the one hand, there are social and civic education programmes here and, on the other, it is that teachers become more open, understanding, not as allergic as they often do today. Luckily, we have time for all this. All that we are planning and applying for here is not going to happen tomorrow. We are thinking of the situation that will come in the next municipal elections, and there is still some time there. I sincerely believe that the heads of education will undertake and develop this area. It is also important that our political environment, or political parties and politicians, turn more towards this contingent and pay more attention to it. So far, they didn't care about them. They weren't voters. Attention in the political environment will certainly activate the school environment, attitudes and attitudes. There is nothing wrong with young people discussing what a social democratic world view is, what a conservative world view is, what it requires, what it means, who represents something. These choices are our natural choices, natural life around. I believe that we can see this development, and it must be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U145	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm going to be a little more specific. I don't think bad about politics, but I'm trying to take him for what he is because I know he's a part of our lives. But I'm still trying to make a list of risks. I'll bring another one, perhaps speculative, but still an example. We know that a large number of high school directors are taking part in the local elections in particular. Here's my question. How do you think gymnastics vote, knowing they have to graduate from high school?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U147	Thank you! Indeed, in that sense, you are right that this 16 is actually a conventional one. Could be 16.5 or 15,5 or 14 or 17. It's a deal. Our society has now agreed that 16 is one of the boundaries of adulthood, with a passport and various civil rights and obligations. Although these civil rights and obligations can be partly acquired before that, at the age of 14 and 15. This is an agreed limit, but the initiators have found it, and I, as chairman of the committee, also think that this 16 has developed, as such understandable to everyone, an adopted limit, to which the age of the election could be brought, the age of the active right to vote. Basically, you are right, but as I said, there is already a certain agreement in society that each one is a milestone in legal competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U148	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your previous answer. Let me ask you a little bit about another area. About 100000 people live in Estonia, who do not have the right to participate in the elections to the Riigikogu, and I am talking about the owners of the hall passport. What is your personal position on this matter? Perhaps this issue should also be put on the agenda and reviewed? It seems to me that the involvement of these people in the processes of our society is also extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U149	Yeah, it's important what you brought up. I would point out that non-citizens can also participate in municipal elections. If we bring this active choice down to 16 years of age, the involvement of young non-citizens in public life will increase. This is certainly a step in the necessary and right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U150	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Tarmo Tamme, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U151	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The lowering of the election age to the age of 16 is once again a step decided by the ruling parties. People have been put in front of the fact that this is how it's gonna be. The Centre Party agrees that more real opportunities need to be created for young people to engage locally, but there are also a number of possibilities that do not require constitutional changes. The involvement of their representatives in council committees helps young people to be involved in local life. Unlike the reduction of the electoral age, it is not necessary to amend the Constitution, but it is sufficient that the obligation to involve young people is written in the Local Government Organisation Act. Active young people can already participate in the work of youth councils belonging to youth organisations, student councils or city or municipality councils. Since not all municipalities have set up youth councils, one could, among other things, discuss the possibilities for further encouraging the work of youth councils. In the eyes of the law, a 16-year-old is a disabled adult, which means that young people are not free or independent in making all their decisions. A young person of this age can marry, but only with parental permission, can drive, but only if there is an adult with two years of driving experience next to him. He can't buy alcohol or smoke, he can't let him in the casino. How do the initiators of the bill explain the contradiction that a 16-year-old young person cannot drive, but at the same time the municipal budget can be managed through participation in elections? Moreover, polls show that young people themselves are not interested in elections. They have caused them not to have enough life experience and to be overly influential. They have noted, among other things, that the current system is fully operational and that it makes no sense to change it. In order to reduce the election age, the Constitution must be amended, which means that the amendment must be approved by two Riigikogu configurations. Once the Centre Party has repeatedly expressed its wish for the people to be able to directly elect the President, the complexity of the amendment of the Constitution has been set as a counter argument. Now, if the reduction of the selection age requires a procedure that is just as difficult, it is suddenly no longer a problem for the coalition. Reducing the election age to the age of 16 is a huge exception in Europe. While other countries are still experimenting, Estonia jumps with this decision, head ahead, into unknown water. Apart from Austria, no other country has considered it necessary to lower the age bar in both local and parliamentary elections. Given that we are currently trying to create good opportunities in local governments to involve young people in the development of decisions affecting them, young people must be given real opportunities to engage locally. However, when we are talking about voting, we must also talk about the right to stand as a candidate, which this legislative amendment entails. The Centre Party Group considers that there is no need to amend the Constitution in order to involve young people further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U152	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group Lauri Luige!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good kids! I have a really good feeling that the topic of reducing the election age discussed and debated over the years has finally reached this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much to all the initiators, especially the young themselves, who have been active on this subject over the years! I've even been in dozens of debates since I was high school, where the focus has been on reducing the age of selection. I dare say that, in recent years, this has probably been the most debated issue in the youth field at all. All these debates have broadly concluded that young people need to be more involved in social processes and one possible solution could be to give young people the right to vote in local elections from the age of 16. This comes with quite a number of positive factors in my assessment and in the assessment of those who have conducted surveys and held debates. For example, 24000 young people will have the opportunity to participate in the elections in what they think local life might look like in the future. There is certainly a role here in educating young people and in raising interest in democratic processes, taking responsibility and its importance and further information on governance for young people. Of course, making a habit is important. After all, the truth is that once you've done something, the second time it's a lot easier to do it because it's a habit. However, if this is not the case at the right time and a young person goes to a larger university in his or her hometown, for example, this habit may not occur at all. Integration is a very important keyword. It is also known that non-citizens have the right to vote in local elections. This amendment would extend the right of 16-year-old non-citizens to participate in local affairs. I think it is extremely positive. The sad fact is that our society is ageing and, inevitably, the focus in this regard is on topics that concern the older generation. These are, of course, very important, but I also consider it important that the younger people, and the issues that concern them, be given more attention. I believe that by giving 16-year-olds the opportunity to choose, we will focus more on youth issues. For example, according to the Eurobarometer, the turnout of young Estonians is now twice as low as for people over 55 years of age. Hopefully, with the proposed change, we will be able to move this trend in a positive direction. The fact is, too, that young people can and actually want to have a say in improving their home life. I remember when I was a high school student in Haapsalu, and we really wanted to get into a skateboard park. Haapsalu was like a vacation town for older people back then. We wanted to change it and make Haapsalu a city of young active people. In cooperation with local authorities, we were able to push through the idea of a skateboard park coming into town, which is still very popular. This shows that we at that time wanted to have a say in developing local life. I'm sure that's what the young people today want, so why not? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U154	Of course! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U155	A little talk about the danger already mentioned here. These debates, where I have participated over the years, have pointed out that indeed, this change in policy and campaign could lead to more school transfers than is currently the case. As I pointed out in my question to Mr Marus, there are, in fact, students aged 18 to 19 in schools today, who are also electoral and are like a potential target group for campaigning. In my opinion, the way in which order can be guaranteed at school is still, in many respects, the question of the rules of the school and the rules of the school leaders. The fact that information and general education are being carried out among young people is very positive. Of course, propaganda as such is not welcome, but I believe it is not as big a problem as some opponents are trying to paint. There have already been several times that Estonia is not a pioneer on this issue. There are a number of positive examples from Austria, Germany, Switzerland and also Norway. All these countries are trying to get young people more involved. I believe that Estonian society is mature to give young people the opportunity to participate more actively in local elections. The reduction in the election age, of course, concerns issues that need to be dealt with in parallel. Here, too, the subject of updating the curriculum has already run through, which is constantly on the agenda as life changes and evolves. Of course, the curriculum of both social education and civic education needs to be looked at and improved so that young people can be better explained why it is important to choose what responsibility, leadership and social engagement are all about. We will certainly be able to make improvements here in the future, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. I would like to thank all the Members who have dealt with this issue, particularly Kristen Michal and Rait Marust. I would like to thank the young people who have also come here today and participated in discussions on this issue over the years. Many of those who are my age and who have many of my own friends and acquaintances have done so since high school. So thanks to all of them! We've been doing a pretty big thing over the years in debate and analysis. Now, in my opinion, Estonia is certainly ripe to make this legislative amendment and to give the 16-year-olds the opportunity to vote in local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U156	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union faction Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U157	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good initiators of the bill! I think that in all countries with an ageing population, there is a problem of how to design national policies in a way that has a more distant perspective, so that the interests of the coming generations, and thus the survival of the people, are more worried than those with an ageing electorate, do in the middle. It is therefore necessary to support such a proposal in the broadest sense. Rather than trying to be critical, it is in the sense that the proposal does not go any further, why we do not dare to trust young people even more, at the same time extending the voting rights of younger people, both active and passive, by offering them the opportunity to participate, why not also in the elections of the Riigikogu and the European Parliament. Finally, I think we will also arrive in Estonia where the right to vote is declared a human right, i.e. all censorships will be abolished and it will be discussed more about how this right can be exercised technically or organisationally in such cases when the voting weatherman himself cannot do so literally. I would therefore like this debate to go further and be more broad-based. But I understand, of course, that time is pressing and the election is coming. The purely organisational questions make this debate seem rather poor. The deadlines are in place, and the clock is falling at a certain point. If this House is to be able to support this draft, we therefore do not have as much time for the substantive debate as may be necessary and we would like to. However, I would not immediately reject the possibility of withdrawing a specific age-censorship from the Constitution at all. There could be an opportunity to impose a specific rate of age censorship by law. In this way, one open step could be taken so that, in future, when discussing specific electoral laws, the limit of the electoral age can be shifted as society is ready and how it seems reasonable at one point or another. At this point, we need to take a rather complex path to change the constitution every time. Maybe that doesn't make any sense. I would therefore be pleased if the initiators and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also all political parties, would be prepared to take this somewhat bolder and farther forward-looking step. Unfortunately, I cannot pass without criticism. It was not quite a good impression that the newly-appointed coalition, together with its members of the Riigikogu, considered it reasonable to present this draft only on behalf of the Reform Party and the Soviets. As Kalvi Hard admitted, it's not pretty. This leaves such a cheap taste on this initiative. Wanting to change as important a matter as the Constitution could recognise all efforts to ensure that this initiative is broad-based. Such a topical score may make it more difficult to deal calmly and forward-looking. In any case, on behalf of the IRL Group, I believe that we can support this draft constructively. Perhaps the various levels, whether the initiators, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or the Grand Hall, will find a way to consider the version I propose of the Constitution to remove such censorship at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U158	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Kalev Kotkas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U159	Honor the President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats view this draft law amending the Constitution without tension or fear. We have long discussed the advantages and disadvantages of giving active voting rights to 16-year-olds, as well as the potential risks, and we have written such an update into our electoral programme four years ago. We recognise that the possible transfer of election propaganda to school is a clear test of the maturity of our society. At the same time, no law, including the Constitution, regulates life and mitigates fears 100%; there must always be room for common sense. An ageing population is a fact that cannot be ignored. Therefore, in the opinion of the Socialists, it is important that the electorate is more balanced in terms of age and that the interests of as many age groups as possible are represented in the elections. In the current situation, the electorate needs to be balanced in its youngest segment. The Social Democrats support the process of giving young people the right to vote from the age of 16 onwards, which could start by giving them active electoral rights in municipal elections. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U160	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline of 16 October at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of draft 703 amendments. The first reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U161	Let's move on to the second item. The first reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Act amending other laws begins. It is my great honour to ask the Minister of Social Affairs, Helmen Kütt, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U162	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce to you today at first reading draft 693, which is the Social Welfare Act, the labour market...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U163	Good waitress, I'm sorry! I got a note from the hall. In fact, I asked the Minister of Social Protection Helmen Küti for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. My bad! Thank you, good fellows, for your attention. Minister, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U164	Thank you. Nevertheless, I will continue to talk about the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws. The starting point of this draft is problems with rehabilitation services and facilities. While the employment capacity reform was discussed in June, at the same time the draft Social Committee of the Riigikogu was forwarded, which should have been under discussion at exactly the same time as the labour capacity reform and should have been dealt with at the same time in the Chamber. Consequently, good members of the Riigikogu, the draft dates, such as 30 June 2015 or 2016 will change by half a year. The Ministry will certainly propose improvements to that effect. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu did a very good job with the draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act. The reform was scheduled to enter into force on 1 July 2015, it was postponed to 1 January 2016. Since these two drafts are very close to each other, one cannot do anything without the other, and they complement each other, and their adoption as a law must also take place at the same time, it is clear that, if the date of entry into force of the draft law on capacity support has been changed for the second reading, then surely the deadlines will also change in this draft. Today, the draft is before you, as we have tabled it, to be amended by means of proposals for improvement. But let's get to the substance of the bill. As I said at the beginning, in particular there are changes to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. The draft adds a new labour market service to the rehabilitation of workers. Its aim is to provide the necessary services for people of working age with reduced working capacity to maintain and take up work. A person with reduced capacity for work is a person with disability, permanent incapacity for work or partial incapacity for work. The employment rehabilitation service is provided to persons aged 16 years to an old-age pension if they are registered, employed or run a company, acting as a self-employed person or in the case of a spouse participating in the activities of a self-employed company. This means that people with reduced working capacity who work can receive a job rehabilitation service. If there is a risk that the job may be lost or if they have a desire to re-learn, they will be able to apply for and receive this service. If a person is unable to work, he or she is provided with a social rehabilitation service under the Social Welfare Act. If you look at rehabilitation services at all, you can say that there are two types of services. Occupational rehabilitation is an active labour market measure. The aim of social rehabilitation is a fundamental task of social services: it helps people to cope with everyday life. Within the meaning of the Bill, the new service of occupational rehabilitation will certainly help those who wish to do so to be competitive on the labour market. The organisation of the provision of the occupational rehabilitation service is as follows: This service will be provided by the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. The employment rehabilitation service is therefore provided to a person with reduced capacity to work on the basis of an individual job-seeking plan. The person chooses the service provider himself. It gives more freedom and the opportunity to decide for itself. A service programme has been developed for a person and the unemployment fund pays the rehabilitation service to the rehabilitation service provider. For those people who are not registered as unemployed, an individual job search plan will be drawn up on a smaller scale. What are the costs of this service? The cost of providing the employment rehabilitation service for the years 2015 to 2020 is estimated at EUR 17 million and will be covered by the ESF. True, there is also co-financing from the unemployment fund. What else needs to be brought out? In assessing the need for employment services, providing employment services and organising the provision of employment services, the Unemployment Insurance Fund has the right to involve experts. Experts may be chosen from the unemployment fund in the light of the particularities of one person or another. I will talk about another amendment to the bill. If so far the rehabilitation team had been approved as five members, this team now has at least three members. Past practice has shown that not all members of a team of five may add value, such as logos for persons with reduced mobility. Certainly one member of the rehabilitation team was, has and will remain, a social worker. Depending on the special needs, the second and third members vary. This member may be a physiotherapist or an activity rape when assessing the operational performance of a person with impaired mobility or impaired mobility, but it may also be a special pedagogue, logopaedic or actionrapeut when assessing the impairment of visual, auditory or speech functions or the performance of a person with mental impairment. In addition, the role of creative therapist and experience counsellor has also been introduced as an innovation. They must have completed 117 hours of training. Bringing in the role of experience advisors also gives people with special needs the opportunity to find work in this field. In the field of expert advice, these people are certainly more competent and are best placed to approach them because of a person's special needs. The ex-ante assessment of the need for social rehabilitation is carried out at the Social Insurance Board. In fact, those who need a complex service are found and screened out. Currently, the order of rehabilitation service is very long: on 1 January 2014 there were 7,000 people in the queue. It can be said with certainty that the long waiting list for rehabilitation services is not satisfied either by people with special needs themselves or by organisations. I hope that this change, this additional service, will provide people with very important help. Now I'm talking about aids. The Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Other Law Amendment Act also amends the organisation of the distribution of aids. Aids are currently provided by people working with rural governments who offer them on the basis of a contract concluded with service providers. People are connected to their county. Under the new regime, the person is free in the sense that the aids will be distributed by the Social Insurance Board's offices and are not linked to the county borders. I myself, as a member of the Riigikogu, have been concerned when the funds for aids have ended, and I have asked what happens next. One county may have this money, the other has run out, while the person who needs a certain service must follow the boundaries of his county when applying for it. When the distribution of aids becomes human, a person can look for a suitable tool, of course, on the basis of the marginal price. This will certainly improve the situation. Moreover, it is precisely the people of working age who can get the best tools, which will enable them to get to work, that can also use the European Union's instruments. That certainly improves the situation. The fact that the distribution of aids goes from the competence of rural governments to the Social Insurance Board means that ten jobs are created at the Social Insurance Board. True, at the time the bill was presented in June, there were ten, now, after the figures have been specified, the correct number may be eight posts, because not all have to be full-time. But we're talking about new employees at the Social Insurance Board. People who have been working on this subject so far in the county government can start working on other things. It does not impose any additional obligations on the municipality, rather on the contrary. Currently, some rural governments, for example, have transferred the issue of cards for disabled people to local governments. Since the entry into force of the new Act, it is a service provided by the Social Insurance Board. So rather this change even reduces the responsibilities and work of local governments. What else? It will certainly also help people to be able to apply for the aid digitally without going there. The choice will certainly increase as the need for assistance will be determined on the basis of an assessment of the person at the unemployment fund. If he has been assigned an assessment and a job is sought, he will be able to look at the tools he needs to get to work. It is also precisely with the help of the unemployment fund that job adjustments take place. But these are the services that the unemployment fund will provide in addition to the work-related rehabilitation involving work placements and exercises. These are the major changes introduced by this bill. It certainly cannot be said that all concerns and problems have been solved and that the adoption of laws will ensure a completely smooth transition to the new system. I'd definitely lie to you if I told you. That is why I and Urmas Kruuse, my good colleague, have called on the social partners, as well as other parties, by 25 September, as well as representatives of political parties, because this is a social reform. This should not be a party matter, and I very much hope that it will be dealt with as a social policy. All bottlenecks must be recorded and a timetable agreed. There is a need for certain agreements on education and for services to be reviewed in order for the work capacity reform to actually work. There is a need to reach an agreement on the possibility of obtaining services from the place of residence. Much has been said about this because the administrative capacity of the municipalities is very different. We can say today that since the administrative reform of the Riigikogu has not come far, the municipalities are trying their best, but very often it is not enough. For example, we look at Misso rural municipality, where there are only 73 people with special needs, and Tallinn and Tartu, these opportunities are different, but also the capacities are so different. We are in a situation where a small disability pension and few services, and the lack of access to social rehabilitation, are completely absent, have not actually allowed people to take up work. At present, it is possible for people with special needs to go to the unemployment fund, but the services that the unemployment fund can offer are not sufficient. The European Union's instruments, which, however, allow for much more services, will ensure that this person is dealt with more. Work comes out of poverty. However, the situation in the area of social services, as well as active labour market measures, is not commendable. It is only positive and exemplary when houses of disabled people have opened up new opportunities thanks to a service provider, such as a transport service or a childcare service provider. I know that in Jõhvi's example, there's a very strong house of people with disabilities. Honourable Riigikogu! As this is the first reading of the draft, I am very much looking forward to the amendments, but certainly also to the questions. I would like very much to thank the organisations, the social partners and individuals who have expressed an opinion in the course of the labour capacity reform, too, because it is very necessary. This thing can only get better. If the draft has been tabled and needs to be amended, these proposals must certainly be heard. A good example, as I said at the beginning, of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, with which all the members of the Social Affairs Committee did a very good job, regardless of the party. This bill comes in a completely different and better way than what was here at first reading in June. I am absolutely convinced that this draft, which is in the process here today, in addition to delaying six months of the deadlines previously written, will become even better. A certain number of people say that they have little or little involvement. The Ministry of Social Affairs, including ministers, must also look in the mirror here. I guess we've been talking a little bit or vaguely. But it is important to thank those organisations who are looking for constructive solutions to support and help their people. I hope that the draft, which is today at first reading, will become better and fit for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U165	Dear Minister for Social Protection, thank you. You have questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U166	Thank you. Madam Minister! It is not quite possible that the Ministry will only be a piece of work, and we will only be here to shape the law, as these laws have now been. But what will this law provide for the welfare system? For example, we can see that rehabilitation is still mainly meant for occupational rehabilitation. What does this system offer for those who are currently working, for people with disabilities who have 40,000, and what will it provide for those who are unable to receive rehabilitation services? Where are they going to get help? How will these standards of social services still develop? They're nonexistent right now. How do you even classify those things that need to be done? That's what people expect most right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U167	Thank you for your question. I still disagree. If a draft is not accurate or does not meet the expectations of the stakeholders, it should be remembered that Estonia is a democratic state and that it is possible to propose improvements. Neither the government, nor the coalition, nor anyone else should believe that these proposals are not taken into account because they have come from elsewhere. As I say once again commendably, indeed, the Committee on Social Affairs worked much more than many other committees in the summer, I think. It certainly has a large and important role to play in the improvement of the drafts. Now, what are the possibilities for receiving rehabilitation services? As I said at the beginning, there is a new service for occupational rehabilitation; at the moment there is only social rehabilitation. If those people who are of special need but are of working age, whether working or looking for a job, they will have the opportunity to receive additional employment rehabilitation services. Those who are unable to work or who are disabled persons on retirement pensions will continue to be able to receive rehabilitation, which is a medical service, as well as rehabilitation services. True, I agree that there is not enough resources for this, in fact, there is an urgent need for more resources for rehabilitation. As regards which services are regulated and how they are still regulated or distributed, the capacity of municipalities to provide services is currently very different. It must certainly be the unemployment fund that guarantees a unified service across Estonia. For example, when a person goes to a job interview, it must be transport. The concept of protected work is not included in the Social Welfare Act; it only states that special care provides a service to support work. As a new measure, there will now be a sheltered job service. This will certainly ease the situation for these people. As far as standards are concerned, it is the case that the associations of municipalities, the association of cities and the association of rural municipalities have made it clear that, if minimum or minimum standards were to be imposed, certain municipalities would exceed them several times, such as Tallinn or Tartu, I think that this is also the case in my home town of Viljandi, but certain municipalities might not even be able to offer them at this level. Often it is not just a question of lack of money; sometimes it is also a question of priorities or, for example, of the number of people with special needs in this municipality. Once again, it must be acknowledged that even if there has been no administrative reform, municipalities will at least cooperate in the social field. Such a joint service between municipalities would certainly be the solution. I don't know if I answered all your questions, but at least I tried.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U168	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U169	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We all know that the aim of the work capacity reform and this draft is one: to bring more people into employment who have reduced working capacity. It is as if society as a whole is ready to accept this change and the public sector has said that they will certainly consider whether to employ people with reduced working capacity when choosing new workers. The Unemployment Insurance Fund provides businesses with various tax incentives. Are businesses ready for these changes, and what is the awareness of businesses in particular of what tax incentives are offered? Would you please tell me a little bit about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U170	Thank you. This is a very important issue because, indeed, many entrepreneurs do not know all the measures offered by the unemployment fund to employers. Here again is the important information. A number of round tables for entrepreneurs have also shown that it is extremely important to share this information, as it has been lacking so far. The measures offered to employers include: helping with job interviews, adapting work premises and facilities, making use of technical equipment free of charge and supporting work with a support person. As far as tax incentives are concerned, the State pays social tax on the employee receiving the disability pension and this is paid up to the monthly rate laid down in the State Budget Act. In the case of an employee receiving a disability pension, the employer is not obliged to pay social security contributions on the minimum wage but on the remuneration actually paid. The beneficiary of a disability pension is entitled to seven days' extra leave and is reimbursed to the employer from the state budget. In addition, there is tax-free compensation for the use of a passenger car when driving between home and work. If the employer wishes to provide a means of assistance to an employee with special needs, he or she can do so exempt from tax if the employee has been identified as having at least 40% of his or her capacity to work and has been assigned the severity of his or her disability. So the reform adds a number of motivational measures to employers, and we will definitely come to the Riigikogu to introduce this package. What's the plan with the wage subsidy? It is currently paid for six months in the event of long-term unemployment, but in the future, the state would start to pay this allowance for 12 months if the unemployed with reduced employment capacity were to be employed. Travel allowance is paid to a person with reduced working capacity in the event of participation in work rehabilitation and to the unemployed in the case of an apprenticeship or in the case of a work placement and counselling service, as well as in the case of voluntary work. The travel allowance is paid on the basis of a unit price of 10 cents per kilometre and is paid up to a maximum of EUR 26 per day. The travel allowance is intended to be paid to a person with reduced working capacity. This is subject to a ceiling and more precise conditions for the payment of this contribution are under development. Not all people with special needs are able to go to work, but there are many who would be able to start a small business or provide accounting services in their own homes. Very many have the skills, education and opportunities to do so. As a result, it is possible to adapt workplaces at home if necessary. There will also be support for guidance for future workers, training and counselling in companies, as well as disability-specific. Coping with an open labour market is a difficult task. These people may really need protected work, which I started with. So there is a great deal to be done in this reform, it is not at all easy, it cannot be done by force. This must be done together and discussed together. I would like to reiterate the proposal made in the Committee on Social Affairs that, until 2020, a thousand people with reduced capacity to work in the public service would find a job. It must be dealt with actively and consistently, not just to expect private operators to create these jobs or people to find their own jobs. These are the proposals that actually came through the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U171	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U172	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking about a thousand jobs. The objective of the employment capacity reform is to create 15 000 jobs. This still requires much more concrete measures. In fact, as you know, social welfare standards have been discussed for years. After all, there are studies in the Ministry that the services provided by municipalities to people with special needs, so that they can move, participate in society and the labour market at all, are very uneven and not satisfactory. This is a key issue, which has also been communicated to the Social Affairs Committee by the organisations of people with special needs. After all, it should be precisely the establishment of standards for services that should be at the heart of this law. Are we capable of doing this? There is no opposition to this in the Committee on Social Affairs, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U173	Thank you for your question. This is indeed the case, as I also said, because of the different capacities of local governments, people currently receive services in very different ways, depending on where they live. As a result, the unemployment fund now has a very large role to play. If you go to work, transport arrangements, possible support person, sign language interpreter, these are services provided by the unemployment fund and are guaranteed evenly across Estonia. That's the goal. The fact that municipalities can apply for additional funding from programmes and projects under the ESF will certainly improve the provision of services in municipalities. However, the unemployment fund organises access to work on a uniform basis across Estonia. Each case is unique and personal. After all, we have reached a situation where there is a shortage of workers in Estonia. However, there are a large number of people who do not have a job, but who, according to studies, would like to go to work. Now it is necessary for these two workers' seekers and jobseekers to come together. This is only possible through supporting services and the preparation and motivation of employers. If you don't do anything, nothing changes. But personally, I am aware that the Estonian Social Work Association has also said that there should be at least three or four services that are guaranteed everywhere, because the tax is paid the same everywhere in Estonia, but the coverage of the services is very different. As a result, at least basic and most necessary services could be available. However, if the state and local authorities contribute and play a role in the individual's own contribution and in the European Union's resources, this should ensure a much better situation than is the case today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U174	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U175	Thank you. The translation of sign language does not even go on at very large events, not to mention being a helper of people somewhere on the outskirts of the country. But people with disabilities are still completely on their hind legs, with all-Estonian picnics planned. We know that one was on Toompea in the spring when people with crutches and wheelchairs were forced to come out. Now they say that these laws violate human rights. Yesterday, there was a press conference for people with disabilities, which was meant for journalists, but you also went there. What were the main questions that were raised, dissatisfied with, and why are they on their hind legs? Will this social agreement be attempted before these strikes can begin? What are the maneuvers in store for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U176	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I have a habit of attending events that talk about problems. Since this was a public event, I took part to be familiar with the talk there, I wanted to know it in addition to what I already learned during the draft procedure and also during the pict that you mentioned. After that, we talked for a long time, and you also participated in this conversation. Yes, there are many problems that need to be solved. People actually want to go to work, but they're afraid these two laws will be passed and nothing else will follow. There may be certain changes in the new Riigikogu. That is why, by 25 September, we convened interest groups, the social partners, also representatives of political parties, and we will write down all the problems that need to be resolved even in the long term. A good example of this kind of work is the Health Round Table, which goes together, where there is debate, where acute problems are raised and the distribution of budgetary resources is discussed up to the point that wages and all other problems are being discussed. I think it works very well. This has been argued, at least, by those participating in this round table. I think it is good to have such a long-term look-up, because the changes do not take place in a single moment, they are long-term. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who would say that the social sector is well funded. Rather, he's been underfunded. As I said at the beginning, I do not believe that any organisation will be satisfied with the current situation. But the fact that we need to create and provide services should be the goal of all of us in this Chamber. This is undoubtedly also a common goal between me and Urmas Kruus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U177	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This is a necessary law and the service package is impressive. But it is always the problem of how the measures actually reach those in need. After all, disability and absenteeism are accompanied by exclusion that deepens over the years. Unfortunately, these people are simply not ready to return to the labour market. Has it been thought out how the cooperation between the unemployment fund, other organisations and local authorities is taking place so that these people can find these services, get help and get into the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U179	This is a very important issue. Thanks for that. We are also talking today about young people who, after receiving secondary or vocational education, are between homes, even though they would be able to start working. As they do not turn to the unemployment fund, finding it cumbersome, there is not all the opportunities that can be offered to them with the support of European Union funds. These people will remain at home and their social capacity will be reduced. It is more difficult for those who have been at home for a long time. The cooperation between the local government, the unemployment fund, but also the rehabilitation teams is important. Experience advisors will be involved. The unemployment fund will also deal with educational institutions. The Ministry of Education and Research is negotiating that even before these young people graduate, communicate with them and offer opportunities to avoid such a fall out of the network. It's meant to be. However, if we look at a situation where there were 7 000 job vacancies, but the unemployment fund dealt with the employment of 45,000 people, then the activity requirement may seem incomprehensible. This requirement is also intended to ensure that these people are not left out of the sight of the unemployment fund or employers. If they are registered at the unemployment fund, they will be dealt with, provided with professional rehabilitation as well as all other services, and they will be looking for a suitable job, without being forced to go to any work. That is the purpose of this requirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U180	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! One small remark at first. We're dealing with a bill now, not a law. Look at the explanation. I understand that this bill will be passed as a law anyway, and everyone will understand, won't they? If the government presented it, it will be accepted. However, it would be polite if the word 'draft' had been used in the explanatory memorandum, not 'the effects of the law', but 'the effects of the draft', as has usually been the case. Speaking of these effects, it has to be said that a very long text talks about the effects at the level of the state, the ministry. The county is spoken of half a page and there are four lines of local government. It is politely mentioned that some people lose their jobs and can be applied somewhere else. Who are you talking about, who are these people, what specialists, and where do you recommend applying them? If they're fired, who's paying them a grant, what should they pay? Is it a local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U182	Thank you for your question. I'm really sorry if I didn't use the word 'draft'! I certainly told you at the beginning that this was a bill. Thank you very much for your attention. As for the fact that some people are excluded from work, I do not know which paragraph you are referring to. Just because functions in rural governments are likely to change does not mean that people are unemployed there. In some places there is one person on the job, but some have 0.3 or 0.5 posts for this job. However, it is precisely regional policy that it is very important that the Social Insurance Board complements the ten specialists, as stated in the draft explanatory memorandum, and that 25 advisers and experts are added. In fact, it takes place all over Estonia, is not concentrated in Tallinn, Tartu and other large cities, but posts are created all over Estonia, where the offices of the Social Insurance Institute and the unemployment fund are located, because there are also a large number of new jobs created in the unemployment fund. Rather, the job situation should improve. I am convinced that it is precisely as experience advisors (as well as in many other positions) that are employed by people with special needs who have a reduced capacity to work. But once again, thank you for your attention. Next time, I'll be more careful.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U183	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U184	Thank you. Good minister! Indigenous carers are a very large group of people who are healthy and educated, but they are away from the labour market because they are forced to care for their loved ones at home. The only solution is for the state to create these services, which would help even partially those who are caring for themselves to participate actively in the labour market. This target group has, in fact, been completely excluded from the work capacity reform, although it could be easier to bring these people back into the labour market than those with special needs for different reasons. Do you think it is possible for us to make changes in the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act that will help those who are caring for themselves to return to the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U185	Thank you for your question. I agree with you in this respect that it is the carers who can get back to the labour market as soon as possible. According to statistics, as of 2013, there were 11308 carers in Estonia who cared for adults. They cared for over 12,000 carers, some of whom had two carers. There were 1113 child carers. I'm talking about formalized cases. Surely, there are a number of elderly people who care for their husbands. Some of them have not simply formalised themselves as guardians, nor are they the target groups of this law or its reform. The children who were in custody were 1229. I don't quite agree that we're not doing anything. In fact, EUR 2.4 million has been allocated to day care for the elderly or disabled. If there's day care, the guardian can go to work. Already in quite a few cities, there are shelters for children with special needs, which also makes it easier for mothers to work even during part - time periods. For example, EUR 7 million has been allocated to the development of home care, and it is intended to support informal carers. So there are resources, but those who take care of themselves really are not the target group for this reform. However, if we create services and care facilities for those who are being cared for, we will still increase the chances for those who are caring for themselves to get a job. In any case, I am of the opinion that there is much more to be done with those who are caring for themselves. As a member of the Riigikogu, I initiated a debate on the topic of informal caretakers as a matter of national importance. I consider this to be a very important issue, because people who are fully viable, very good and smart are at home and their health under this care load is just getting worse at one point, to the extent that they already need to be cared for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U186	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I have a very specific question. There is a small paragraph in the middle of page 76 of the explanatory memorandum: "Local municipalities: Local authorities do not have tasks added to local governments, but are now devolved to them by rural governments. In this context, the additional costs for local authorities are not incurred, but, in the light of the reduction in tasks, the workforce will be released, which can be used for other tasks. " In my city, the Social Security Office is one of the largest in its composition. For example, I am still wondering what redundancies there will be and how this will be reflected in our budget. One thing is savings, but the other is the amount paid in the event of dismissal, some half-year salary, which depends on the seniority. Perhaps in law we can foresee that they will have a job in government or state structures, not that these people will be left hanging in the air?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U188	Thank you for the clarification. As I said at the beginning, this concerns the issue of a card in need of assistance, which has often been delegated by county authorities to local authorities, not a single job has been created in any city. Cards are issued by a social worker in the context of other work. I assure you that no one in Narva, Viljandi or Tallinn will be made redundant because of what is stated in this bill. This concerns the issue of a card in need of assistance, which is dealt with by the rural government itself in a large number of places.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U189	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I know people with disabilities quite well in the counties of Võru, Põlva and Valga in south-eastern Estonia. I'm familiar with their organizations, their leaders, their people. I am now reminding you of meetings with really sick people together. I have also been in contact with them during the preparation of this law, a lot has been written about this subject in the papers, but I have never met any disabled people, of course, who would have said that this law would be right for them. Why is it that you are already accused of violating human rights as a minister and lawmakers, etc.? Why has this thick law been so unsuccessfully explained to people? Talk a little bit about how to make it clear to the public that he, who has legs and hands so sick that he can hardly move with two crutches, gets better. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] What's gonna get him better?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U191	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, proposals and opinions on both this and the previous draft, which the Committee on Social Affairs was dealing with, have been presented by representative organisations for persons with disabilities, the Chamber of People with Disabilities and many other organisations that have discussed these proposals with their members. I think that when people talk and debate actively, that is the result. Just like you, I don't know any people or organisations who would say that the current situation is appropriate and good and that they are satisfied with what they are offering. What's getting better for someone who can work, but maybe also for the old-age pension business? If the unemployment fund distributes aids and EU money is used and the person gets a part-time job, his or her life will be better. Transport for work is organised by the unemployment fund. The instrument must meet a need. It takes one tool to cope at home, but it may not be enough to get to work. However, the distribution of aid has failed at the moment, let us be honest. We have both asked the Minister for Social Affairs why there is a queue to receive aids. We have to do something. All the proposals that come are only welcome in order to improve the law. I certainly do not feel that way so that I can force myself to pass the law, even though people are opposed. Well, I guess there's a little bit of an explanation. As I said at the beginning, we also need to look in the mirror, because we have done little work ourselves. There's more to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U192	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U193	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, the key to the success of the reform is the existence of jobs and the motivation of entrepreneurs. I am asking what motivation is for entrepreneurs and what motivates them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U194	Thank you. Indeed, in order for the reform to work, jobs are needed for people to have a place to work. Previously on the question of Inara Luigas, I introduced the existing tax incentives, but also the additional incentives. I can do it again. It is already true that the state pays social tax on the employee receiving disability pension up to the monthly rate laid down in the State Budget Act. In the case of an employee receiving a disability pension, the employer is not obliged to pay social security contributions on the minimum wage but on the remuneration actually earned. The beneficiary of a disability pension is entitled to seven days' extra leave and is reimbursed to the employer from the state budget. Tax-free compensation is provided for the use of a private car when travelling between home and work. If the employer wishes to provide assistance to a person with special needs, he or she can do so without income tax if the employee has been found to have at least 40% loss of capacity and has been given the degree of disability. What are the motivational measures planned for employers, which we will definitely come to introduce? If the wage subsidy was paid to the employer so far for six months, this period will now be extended to 12 months. Travel allowance is paid to a person with reduced working capacity in the event of participation in professional rehabilitation, as well as to an unemployed person who participates in work placements or work placements, receive guidance services that are applied individually or who carries out voluntary work. Travel allowance is paid on the basis of unit costs, 10 cents per kilometre, up to a maximum of 26 euros per day. It is also possible to adapt work premises to the employer, but when a person starts working at home, one room can also be adapted to work space or the necessary equipment can be provided at his home. Even now, the employer is able to obtain, for example, a computer and ramp, which will make it easier for these people to get to work and work. Training is also organised. I've already told you about protected employment, which is a new service. This, too, will improve people's ability to get to work. There are quite a number of measures designed to make the reform work for the employer in order to give more thought to the skills of people with special needs. These skills are, in fact, very good for many people with special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U195	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Good madam minister! You said so nicely that you should look in the mirror because you may have explained the bill a little. For some reason, the target group that this bill is intended for is still resisting and rising on the hind legs. It looks something like a mother wants to feed a child porridge that she doesn't want to eat for some reason. But when you look in the mirror, there, as the papers write, is actually looking back at some kind of public relations officer who is supposed to be paid 2,000 euros. Is the paper lying, or is that right? What's with the PR guy, and is he doing a ministry job or some kind of extra job? Why do you need a public relations manager at all, if you have very good and experienced officials in the ministry who can talk, show slides in PowerPoint, share interviews and do whatever you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U197	Thank you. First of all, when I was talking about looking in the mirror, I meant that having been working for six months in this job, I don't think I've been active enough. However, since the previous law was very much amended, again thanks to the work done in the Committee on Social Affairs, which I have repeatedly mentioned here, these proposals have also been dealt with. But I think that things need to be talked about calmly, that we need to clarify, listen and listen to the proposals put forward by the target groups. After all, the proposals put forward by the target groups were largely reflected in the work capacity reform. I would particularly like to congratulate and thank the Centre Party for proposing improvements. In my opinion, almost all of them were taken into account, in part or in full, so the law certainly improved. When it comes to public relations, the paper certainly doesn't lie. I respect the media and say there's nothing to the secret. Indeed, we have a public relations company hired, but he doesn't normally deal with public relations or, how I say, a bill. There's been a lack of information and he's working on it. I think that the instruments that have been used for this have certainly not been used in vain, all the more so since the public procurement has been made. If there is little information and there has been little talk about this subject, then more needs to be said. I've been self-critical in every job, I'm looking first and foremost at what I've failed to do myself. That's why I was talking about looking in the mirror. I'm sure there's no plan to stick porridge in anyone's mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U198	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U199	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It's nice to listen to you. I think you're hurting your heart over this reform. You talk so spiritually and ladyly, even looking in the mirror. If you have to look in the mirror, even though you've been working through the summer, how do you appreciate the work of previous ministers? Taavi Rõivas and Hanno Pevkur dealt with this reform for years. According to my memory, they started talking about it five years ago. Haven't they looked in the mirror or should they? Did they miss a lot? How do you assess their work? It doesn't make any sense to me when a gentle woman grabs and grabs, but two big men sit around and see that a nice law has been passed. Did this bill come to you raw? Maybe he wasn't prepared at the required level because the boys were just doing a sloppy job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U200	Thank you for your question. Just as I have been self-critical in every profession, I have always been convinced that I do not evaluate the work of my predecessors, I better see what can be improved. I'm sure I'm not the person who says that before me there was a lot of empty ground and no one comes after me. Each one has worked in his own time, according to his own wisdom and knowledge. I'm sure the next ones who come will fix a lot of things I've done. It cannot be said that, as time changes, certain drafts and needs will not change either. But I admit that if I had been able to start preparing this reform and I had more time, I might have started a little bit from the other end. However, this is not my assessment as a minister, but my assessment as a social worker.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-16_U201	Minister, thank you. You may have more questions, but it's been one o'clock. Today's session is closed, and the debate on this point will continue in tomorrow's session. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
