ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision No 516 of 3 November, the President of the Republic has appointed Maris Lauri as Minister of Finance. Our first task today is to listen to Maris Lauri's oath of office, otherwise he will not be able to become a minister. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U4	Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U5	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates three draft laws and submits seven draft resolutions of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Public Health Act; secondly, the draft law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the processing of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Third, the device safety bill. In the Riigikogu, Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill. Fourthly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in the International Office of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the International Headquarters of the European Union in the performance of the international duties of the Estonian State in Afghanistan'; fifthly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in the international obligations of the Estonian State in the context of the implementation of the international obligations of the Estonian State'; seventhly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission in Mali'; eighthly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of NATO response forces'; ninthly, the extension of the term of theRiigikogu 's decision" Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State inLebanon ,Israel , Egypt andSyria'. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Defence Sven Mikser when dealing with the abovementioned seven drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U6	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U7	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels. You will remember that in the summer, a series of tax increases were hurried through this hall, one of which concerned households who receive indoor-warm light fuel oil. At the time, a promise was made that, as these households are hit by a 38% increase in heating costs, a certain compensation mechanism would be developed to enable them to replace their heating system. It is now clear that there is not enough money in KredEx for the immediate conversion of the heating system in all of these 1000 or 2000 households. Nor is it meant that there are hundreds of apartments in Estonia in houses where this fuel oil is used for heating. We have received requests for help from several apartment buildings, for example, today we received a request from an apartment building with 25 apartments, where it is claimed that this price increase will mean an additional exit of some EUR 10000 for them during the next heating period. In addition, there are a number of municipalities in Estonia whose buildings, many of which are kindergartens, use the same fuel. When setting the price increase, it is planned that local authorities could pay about EUR 1 million more for excise duties. Nothing has been done to mitigate this effect, although it is too rapid a price increase for both households and municipalities. We therefore propose to postpone this price increase for at least one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U8	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu initiates a draft law amending the National Opera Act, which we wish to amend the National Opera Act as regards the approval of the members of the National Opera Board, the term of their mandate, the liability of the members of the Council and the remuneration of their work. We also specify the type and content of the contract with the management body and the responsibility of the Director-General of the National Opera. The purpose of the draft is to bring the National Opera Act into line with the good practices of the amended Code and the legal person governed by public law, thereby ensuring the management of the National Opera on a clearer basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U10	I have adopted 12 drafts on behalf of the Bureau. The Bureau decides on their adoption on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 80 members of the Riigikogu, no 21. Next, we need to confirm the agenda for the seventh working week. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose that the agenda for the seventh working week of the VIIIth session of the Riigikogu be confirmed. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. According to the newly approved agenda, we intend to answer questions first.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U11	Members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Korb, Enn Eesmaa, Mailis Reps, Marika Tuus-Laul, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Eldar Efendiev, Kalev Kallo, Urbo Vaarmann, Viktor Vassiliev, Siret Kotka and Kadri Simson have submitted the first question. Mikhail Korb will speak on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U12	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I would like to make an inquiry into the exodus of talent. The World Economic Forum published a new competitiveness table at the beginning of September, where Estonia is 29th in comparison with 144 countries. The rise compared to last year is in three positions, but there are still areas where Estonia is among the latter. The ability of the Estonian state to attract talent here is of particular concern and we can also keep talent. In this category, we only find a few places in the 100th position above. The brain drain and the departure of residents to better hunting countries abroad have been a serious problem for years. For example, according to 2013 data, just over 4,000 people migrated to Estonia, while even 10,700 people migrated from Estonia, which means that the 2013 balance of external migration was negative by more than 6500 people. In October 2010, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry launched the project 'Talents home! ', which tried to bring young people abroad to study or work together with Estonian employers so that young people with foreign experience would return to Estonia. According to a study carried out in the framework of the project, in 2010 89% of young people living or working abroad wanted to return to Estonia if they could receive a good standard of living and an appropriate working environment. The project was declared complete in the autumn of 2012, when only 27 people who had left their home country had returned to Estonia after two years of activity. In this context, we have a number of questions for the Minister to which we would like substantive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U13	The inquiry must be answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll answer your question about talent migration. The first question: 'What measures does the government intend to take to end the exodus of talent? How do you plan to keep trained specialists here in Estonia? " It is natural that young people go to other parts of the world in search of experience and knowledge, as well as gaining it. Inevitably, some people will live elsewhere, just as they come to Estonia to stay here. We can't force anyone here because it doesn't match the principles of an open world and democracy. However, it is our task to create the conditions for our talents to remain in Estonia or to return to their homeland after they have completed themselves abroad. This is, of course, linked primarily to the fact that society and businesses here must offer a pleasant living environment, opportunities for self-realisation, and, of course, a good income. Of course, society is also expected to be open and to be tolerant, even to make people happier. All these factors are important in one way or another. The good business environment and the well-being of Estonian companies play an important role in providing opportunities for self-realization. The second question: 'According to the World Economic Forum's corresponding competitiveness table, Estonia is unable to attract talent. Does the government have a set of motivational packages that would attract both new talent and those who left here before? If so, which ones? ' Estonia has already done quite a lot to attract and keep employees here. New and more complex programmes are also being added. Changes have also been made to the Aliens Act, which has made it easier for top specialists, researchers, academics, students and their family members to study, work and settle in Estonia. Changes are also being prepared to allow for a simpler transition from one type of residence permit to another, for example, so that the best foreign students can start their working life in Estonia. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is developing an action plan linked to a number of existing strategies, the components of which have already been described in a number of previous programmes. Now they want to take a holistic approach to this issue. In concrete terms, if you mention just a few activities, you could mention our strategy for international promotion of higher education, which aims to ensure that more foreigners should be studied at Estonian universities. Among the students, it is, of course, the easiest to find the so-called talent to be involved in the Estonian economy and science. For both foreign students and other immigrants, the adaptation programme currently under development is designed to help people who come to Estonia adapt to their lives here. Members of the family of other countries who have come with or wish to join the returnee Estonians can also join this programme. Question three: 'Talents home! " In the framework of the project, young people said that they would return to Estonia if a good standard of living could be paid here. The Reform Party promised seven years ago to bring Estonia to the five richest European countries in 15 years, which would certainly mean reaching the desired standard of living. How real do you consider the fulfillment of a promise made seven years ago as a minister? ' The amount of remuneration depends on what Estonian companies produce and how they do it. Wages can only increase with productivity growth, and for this to happen, businesses naturally need to renew production and production and invest. The government can help businesses by making our business environment as attractive as possible and our education as good as possible. This has also been done by previous governments and will certainly continue to be the case. I understand your temptation to iron a slogan seven years ago, which, as always, is simplistic in a way. But if we take the aim of this slogan so that the standard of living of Estonia rises, so that the people of Estonia receive the same salary as they receive in the wealthiest countries in Europe, I believe that this objective has not disappeared anywhere. We must certainly continue to work to ensure that the standard of living in Estonia rises faster than in other European countries. Take, for example, the last ten years: by the same time that the wages of people in Estonia have increased by 119%, they have increased by 30 to 40% in Finland and Sweden. In ten years, we have taken a very long step closer to the standard of living in Finland and Sweden. I do believe that, rather than ironing out the former on specific ballots, we could jointly consider what steps Estonia would quickly take to bring Estonia closer to the most prosperous countries in Europe. In fact, whether we are among the first five in the future or the first ten, for example, is not a priority. It is essential that this objective is accompanied by an increase in the wages and pensions of the Estonian people. It is worth continuing to do so. The fourth question: 'IRI member, Priit Alamäe, offered in Postimees a few weeks ago that in Estonia the salaries of domestic babysitters could be exempted from all taxes and opened up to Asians in this part of the labour market. How potential do you consider immigration of such 'talents' to be? ' I do not think that Estonia's first challenge could be to attract new low-skilled workers. Our aim should be to increase the skills of workers in order to ensure better employment opportunities and income growth in Estonia as a whole. I believe that this article by Priit Alamäe was written primarily in order to initiate a discussion on these issues, and this should be taken as such. For some reason, I do not believe that he meant it very seriously, that now we should start attracting the mass of low-skilled people to Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U15	There are questions for the Prime Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! Here again came the story of the five most successful countries. I've been interested in that from a long time ago. Well, we understand that it is impossible to get ahead of Germany, France, England and Sweden, for example, but of whom of these five are Estonia going to eat out, either Finland or Denmark or Luxembourg? Tell me, please, who is it we're gonna eat out of this five? I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U17	Much more important than the ranking is that the standard of living of the Estonian people should rise, so that the productivity of Estonian companies, and therefore the wages paid, tax revenue collected from wages, and thus pensions and social benefits would increase. Finland, now that I'm out of my mind, Europe is somewhere near the top ten. I believe that the standard of living in Finland is something we should strive for. All the more so since before World War II, before the Soviet occupation, Estonia's standard of living was very similar to that of Finland. We weren't too far behind Sweden either. I do not think that we are so capable, so wise, so industrious that our standard of living cannot reach a level comparable to that of our northern neighbour, Finland, today. Why should we set lower goals for ourselves? But how can this be achieved? To do this, we must be prepared to do something even better than Finland. This is an extraordinarily difficult task, because although the last few years have also been in economic stagnation in Finland and, at times, even in the years of recession, our neighbour has done a great deal of things in recent decades. Education, openness to new technologies, is a number of things in which Finland sets an example for many countries. Our job is to do something even better. It does not happen on its own, it does not materialise without effort, but it could be pursued constantly and collectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U18	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Estonia does not have a lot of resources, which is due to its geographical location on the one hand and the small number of people on the other. All our resources are quite limited. At meetings in schools, especially when talking to gymnasts, I ask them how they make their life forecasts. I've had that kind of interest for years. Most of them say that when making forecasts, they see their lives outside Estonia. That is a fact, there is no irony in this argument. Here's my question: how do you assess whether the state can still do something about the degree, because in ten years there will be no one else to talk to? I'm not talking about statistics right now, I'm talking about what's working.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U20	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U21	It is true that in Estonia there is no oil and gas coming from within the land, which has made it much easier for the economy to function in some countries than those countries that have to otherwise ensure that productivity is growing, that the economy has innovation, etc. But without real resources, neither is our country. Oil shale is a perfectly significant domestic asset with a high potential for productivity growth. Today, however, the vast majority of oil shale goes straight into the furnace, simplifying it. If it is made of oil and refined in the future, so that diesel is produced from it, the climate agreement concluded last week in the European Council, means that each tonne, each piece of oil shale, will gain three times more added value. We get three times as much from the same oil shale we have in the ground without extracting more. We can get more money out of it and, of course, we can also pay higher wages, rather, that can be done by companies that improve their production. So we have the mineral. The second good resource we have is worth more than any mineral resource that is our wisdom. In today's world, it is not the case that the state of the economy depends solely on mineral resources. Much depends on how educated, how open, how innovative people are. In this sense, it is not bad for young people in Estonia to go and complement themselves in other countries and receive a wider education by studying in some other schools besides Estonian schools, although Estonian schools are also on a good level. Studying in other schools is not something we should condemn. At the same time, it would be good for young people to come back to Estonia or to think globally, to be world citizens, as many young people already are, and to create businesses that create rewarding jobs. Some here have tried to ridicule start-up companies or oppose them to companies that predominantly operate in a traditional way. I think their understatement, ridicule or underestimation is a big mistake. It is also a big mistake to contrast with traditional sectors, because like traditional sectors, even the same oil shale industry has its place in the Estonian economy, so do the so-called start-ups, some of which have already reached the value of tens of millions of euros, some of which have even reached the value of hundreds of millions of euros. In total, they already have a very significant workforce in Estonia, many of them growing at a crazy rate and I think they are the place where Estonian young talents can realise themselves. This option, of course, is not only for young people, but when you look at the average age of these companies, we see that they tend to be very young collectives. In order to have even more entrepreneurial spirit, we need, on the one hand, to contribute more to education in this area, including IT education. I am very pleased that Virumaa College, Tallinn University of Technology, will open an IT study course. I think there is great potential in this too when young people in Ida-Virumaa study IT. Of course, it takes success stories to make all these things happen. Success will lead to new success. The fact that there has been one global success story in Estonia - Skype - has given a great many of Skype's former employees, as well as others, the feeling that this is possible. It is possible to do something very large and global in Estonia with your brains, without the use of mineral resources. It is probably not by chance that there are people from Skype, for example, among the founders or employees of TransferWise. Other major success stories that still have the potential to grow significantly are also Skype's people. Next, GrabCAD has reached a pretty considerable level. And the success of GrabCAD will certainly give rise to new success, etc. I believe that there are prospects for young people in Estonia, all the more so because we know that Estonia is the best place in the world to live.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U22	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U23	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Last week, Minister of Agriculture Padar sent a letter to Minister of the Interior Pevkur asking him to analyse how a cheaper workforce could be brought to Estonia. I would remind you that unemployment in Võrumaa has increased by 10% over the year to 17%. Are we going to prefer migrant workers to our unemployed people in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U24	Thank you. No, I don't think it should be, quite the opposite. Although unemployment in Estonia has decreased considerably, it has decreased very rapidly and is much lower than in the European Union as an average, including lower than in the euro area as an average. But there are still a few people among us who are away from the labour market, and there are many people who want to actually work. I think that there is a potential for additional labour among us, including those people who are not currently working as a pensioner for incapacity for work, but who have an interest in working. Moreover, we also have people who retire before retirement age is reached, although health would still allow work to continue and they would like to continue, but they cannot do so either because of qualifications or for other reasons. We can help them. We can also give a clear signal that those people who are in retirement age, but whose health allows them to continue working and who wish to continue, are also welcome in the labour market. We do not want to push them out of the labour market either. As Estonia's population does not increase, we must increase the share of labour market participants in order to achieve our economic goals, whether or not we want to. It is in this way that we open our jobs by taking an open mind against our collective of people who are absent from the labour market for one reason or another, but would like to work. There are many of these people in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U25	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! That's the question. In your speech, you spoke very much about education, you contributed to the fact that, if there is a good education, good specialists will also come here. But what about people who have already been educated, including abroad, who have gone where there are better opportunities, where better jobs can be found and where municipal housing is provided, as in Finland, which you talked about many times? What about the adult people who want to leave Estonia? How to keep them in Estonia and bring them back here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U27	All those who see their career opportunities abroad, we do not have to force to keep or bring them back here. Estonia is an open country. If our children ever want to work in a company with a global reach, this cannot be prevented. As a father, of course, I would be delighted if my daughter were here all the time, but looking at a slightly larger picture, I would rather support her desire to find challenges elsewhere in the world. There's nothing wrong with that. My penguin has obtained a Master's degree in London after he graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Tartu. Now he's worked for the world's largest law firms for several years. In my opinion, he is no less Estonian patriot than some of the people who work in Estonia. It's been a huge career opportunity for him. I do not think that we should force him back to Estonia, where such career opportunities cannot be based solely on the small size of the country. We do not have a problem because young people find job challenges abroad, but rather because there are no viable jobs for people from Estonia. This is the main problem that needs to be addressed, not that highly educated people can work across borders in the best companies in the world. We shouldn't worry about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U28	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U29	Thank you. I ask what the Reform Party has done in power so that people do not want to leave here so massively. After all, a lot is leaving, and if we look at Statistics Estonia's bill, you might think that in the next few decades more will go away. The situation is quite dark, Estonia remains empty. And it's young families that are leaving. What exactly have you done so that people don't want to leave here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U30	It may not be best to make a future forecast on the basis of Statistics Estonia's figures. If you look at the Statistics Estonia bill, you'll still see the reflection of the past. And you will also see that the share of people leaving Estonia has decreased and the return migration has increased year after year due to economic coercion. At the same time, I recommend looking at very comprehensive migration surveys alongside the figures from Statistics Estonia, which have been carried out every three years: in 2010 and in 2013. The 2013 survey was much more positive, as it clearly showed that the fall in unemployment and wage increases are significant in Estonia. By the way, over the last few years, our wages have increased faster than anywhere else in Europe, and hopefully in the next few years too. This trend is remarkable and important to people. The share of people who have to work away from their home has decreased in Estonia due to wage growth and a reduction in unemployment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U31	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U32	Thank you. Prime Minister! Your former coalition partner, Tõnis Lukas, said that the people who leave Estonia are comforters and, in part, loose refugees. Do you share his opinion and, if not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U33	No, I don't share that view.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U34	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U35	Thank you. Prime Minister! You mentioned that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is working on a strategic document. I mean, we've already lost one generation of time. But my question is, when this document is finished, what else does it have to say besides economic development?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U36	This document does not now have to wait for decisions to change the whole world, or not all of the world's hopes can be built on it. This is simply one framework that sets out the activities planned by the State with a specific target group. I think that much more than any specific development plan will affect people's decisions, however, what are their chances of self-realization in Estonia, what is the level of pay, how high unemployment is. It will certainly also have an impact on the extent to which society is generally tolerant. I know people who have moved away from Estonia not so much because of wages, but precisely because they want to live in a society where there is more tolerance. I hope they come back soon. I hope that Estonia will really become more tolerant that we will be able to accept each other. There are only 1.3 million of us, and we need to have more respect for each other, not confront each other by any trait. However, it is certainly right that the most important pragmatic consideration is still linked to income. As the Maslow hierarchy of values tells us, basic needs must be met. Food must be on the table, family security must be guaranteed. A secure and adequate income is the best way to ensure this. I therefore believe that we should not introduce progressive income tax in Estonia in order to tax higher salaries anymore. Nor should we hold back the creation of jobs in Estonia by adding a tax burden. These things are all connected. We must strive to make the Estonian business environment as attractive as possible so that jobs are created here. From time to time, there are pickets at Stenbock's house to make our banks more taxed somehow. This may seem right and popular, but these banks do not have to be here; they may also leave Estonia if they sense that they are being harmed here. They don't have to create jobs here, they don't have to pay dividends on the profits they make here. It is not that companies are rushing here, and we must see how to impose the greatest possible tax burden on them. It's not like that. We must create an attractive environment in international competition and attract people and businesses here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U37	No further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U38	Thank you for the floor. So, what do you say after the Prime Minister's show? That performance was quite long, it lasted almost an hour. What did we hear? What did we find out and what's gonna get better now? Personally, I didn't know anything. I didn't hear any promising concrete promises that we're going to do this now. I remembered, you know, that religious leaders give such speeches that dear thought mates, in five years' time, Paradise will come, and we will all live for the good of our lives. After all, it's pointless for the Prime Minister to come to this hall and say that if we were to raise productivity, that would be fine. If we were to create new jobs, the talent would come back. If we raise our wages, young men would come to work for us. What do you mean, "if we lift"? The Reform Party has been in power in Estonia for years. In essence, the squirrel party has given birth to emigration, no one else. The voters have trusted him, and this trust must be justified by the responsibility for government. We will receive the annual report of the National Audit Office which has reached us today. What does it say? One of the first sentences is that the dreams of Estonians, the hopes of Estonians, have not been fulfilled. The Prime Minister did not tell us why our dreams have not come true, why our hopes have not been fulfilled. That's what he's supposed to do. He's a government representative. He should tell us why things have happened like this. It is predicted that over the next few years 10,000 people will leave Estonia each year, even nearly 11000. There are less than a million of us Estonians! For a few more years this trend and for a few more years the same power, the power of the Reform Party, and we are so wounded that we will not be able to recover. Our kids don't want to come back. Whoever communicates with young people and talks to the people knows that many of them do not intend to live in Estonia because there is no point. And there's no point! I'm not asking anyone to leave, but if you're a young man of 22 to 23 and you have a monthly salary of 700 euros, you won't be able to make a family. You can't buy a place to live, you can't support a husband and kids. At the same time, the number of Estonians earning more than EUR 150000 per year has doubled in Finland over the last two years, which is approximately EUR 15000 per month. A recent business day news just appeared. Where do we have these salaries? Why would Estonians come back here and listen to our young Prime Minister, Kõivas, so that if we raise productivity, our lives would be better. The Reform Party is a business party, so why have they not been able to increase productivity? Why haven't we gotten better? Why is the rate of return not as high as in Finland? What has been done? There's nothing done. Let's see what the government does. The government is working on preparations for elections, moving the buttons around, perhaps raising its men from one place to another, stealing supporters from another party to get the voter's support again. By the way, I seriously doubt the meaning of this idea. Does the voter really support this party? At least I have heard that entrepreneurs no longer want to see the power of the Reform Party in Estonia. Because this party has destroyed Estonia's life. There's nothing to do, my speech is critical, but that's how life has gone. At the same time, we take the place where the second party in Tallinn has the power of the Centre Party. What am I reading on the news today? The population of Tallinn has grown again, 434000 people live in Tallinn. Let's ask why they live here. Because the power party here is better at managing the capital than our reform party Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. That is the point, and there is no point in discussing these issues again. If one business party fails to develop entrepreneurship in Estonia, without which there will be no better life, there is nothing to talk about. All we have to do is think that we have to revolutionize. The National Audit Office's report also says that there is a need for state reform in Estonia. I would add that there is a need for a reduction from the power of the state reform and the Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U39	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U40	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister! In fact, we didn't expect a very different answer from Taavi Clothes. His style is exactly the same as that of Andrus Ansipil, even the structure of sentences is very similar. And the main message of the answers is that public finances are in order, that Estonia is doing well, that we are about to reach the top five or ten richest countries and arrive at Finland, that progressive income tax is in any case bad, so that it applies in many parts of the world. These are always the answers. When Andrus Ansip left the Prime Minister's chair in the spring, his work was summarised. On February 27, the paper pointed out his shortcomings. First in this table was that since April 2005, when Ansip took office, Estonia's greatest problem has been emigration. It is precisely during the rule of the Reform Party that the last restrictions on the free movement of Estonian labour within the European Union have disappeared. Now emigration has become Estonia's most serious problem, which, unfortunately, we did not hear recognition here. In addition to the practical concerns that we do not have taxpayers and workers and consumers, etc., this has led to psychologically traumatic thinking that there is no point in making an effort for this country. According to the country newspaper, Estonia will die out if we do not take this problem seriously. The Prime Minister described Statistics Estonia's data as a reflection of the past, but Statistics Estonia has very clearly predicted that if the current trend continues, Estonia's population will decrease by another 125000 people over the next 30 years. Emigration is seen as a threat to extinction as being negative. In order to halt the fall in the abyss, some things have been done in our country: parental pay and growth in child support; however, emigration is not considered to be a problem at all. As we heard today, let the people go, they have to go. In the past, we have heard from ministers that people are going to look for happiness, and that is normal. It's normal that people go to study, but they could come back at some point. Our problem is they're not coming back. And the saddest thing is, it hasn't been recognised as a problem. Today, we know that middle - aged people are going and that it is young people who are about to start a family who are going to live elsewhere. This is Estonia's problem number one. I am very sorry that the President has not made a big problem of this. We remember that in the years of the economic crisis, when the economic recession in Estonia was one of the biggest in the world and when social jobs were created in Tallinn, the government simply laughed at it. But Tallinn prevented these people from leaving. It was still a very important thing to do. Unfortunately, we have realised that right-wing governments like the unemployed to leave our country. The number of registered unemployed is decreasing, and there is no problem. No human, no problem! The unemployed will be reduced, we can say it again. Everyone who has left this country means that the government has taken a step closer to the solution. The real reasons for going away are not to be heard. We know that emigration could be hindered by a normal regional policy. But we won't. That is why it is always alarming when we hear again about closing down some basic school or kindergarten, eliminating the ATM, closing down the store, etc. All of this means steps in the direction of getting people to leave Estonia on a massive basis. In fact, it can now be said directly that the great emigration from Estonia is due to the political economic, regional and social policies of reform carried out over these years. There's an attitude that if you're poor and unemployed, and maybe less impudent, then your place is elsewhere. Go away, it's better. Very sad!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U41	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U42	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! Point one, emigration. In fact, we have to admit that what's going on, we don't even know. We can't imagine it. I'm going to tell you a story about practical life, told me by a young lady who has now gone to England forever. He told me that story last year. He was running out of documents, and he went to the embassy just to exchange documents. He knew perfectly well that at the same time we were counted here to find out how many people actually live in Estonia. He wasn't going to take part in that campaign in England because he's been living there for over five years. He's married there, he's got kids, a house, etc. When he went to get the new documents, he was told that you didn't talk about your wish, but we wrote you as an Estonian resident just in case you knew that you didn't need to make any more effort. I mean, a person who doesn't even go to Estonia every year is out of the statistics on emigration. That's why we use electronics. There are a lot of people like that. So the number that Statistics Office has given us is much more optimistic than the picture actually is. You might want to put a problem next to exodus. What are you talking about? I've got some interesting numbers here. Before 1990, population growth was positive every year. Statistical Office even reports that in 1947-1990, 242000 more people were born than they died. Since 1991, it's negative, it's minus 82000 people. Except for one year 2010 when the Estonian population increased by 35 people, all the remaining years have been negative. If people don't want to have children, there's something wrong with the system. It's basically not supposed to be. What's wrong with the system? I would remind you that, in November 2009, the Speaker of the Riigikogu, Mrs Ergma, in a forum called 'Youth's Choices under the economic downturn', said that young people should go abroad. If they accept that they are the best in their village, it is dangerous for a small country. That was official ideology. It seems that until now, this is the ideology. The best must go. People listen to it and they go. Absolutely similar ideas, but in other words, have been expressed on several occasions by our President. Well, what are we discussing here? What are we gonna call each other? It is an official ideology: who is smarter and more energetic in all respects, it must leave Estonia, it seems that there is nothing he has to do here. It's all based on a general way of saying now, stupidity, I may not find the right word, but you understand what I'm saying. My colleague said that he did not understand the Prime Minister's answers to the content, etc. But I am reminding you, and I hope that Mr Viktor will also remind you of what I told my colleagues when our Prime Minister today first appeared before us as a minister. I said this young gentleman has a very well-developed language. It's either natural or she's learned it very well, but anyway, she speaks very skillfully. He can spin in such a way that you don't know where the answer started. You'd think he'd get far. And he has. Why am I talking about this? Because once again, we came up with the five most successful countries. Colleagues, there is Germany, there is France, England, Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, etc. Estonia should be somewhere 15 to 17. present. One step higher should be immensely difficult, fantasticly difficult. And we are told of the five most successful countries! When a man talks like this, we've heard it since Ansip and we're hearing it now, and there's no rotten tomatoes or eggs flying in his direction, it means that the overall level of the listeners, starting with the average person and ending with the press, is very low, down with the plintus. That's how you can ask a simple question, who we're going to take over to that five, who we're going to push out of that five. That's okay. That's the kind of shit they say. When society listens to it calmly, it accepts all the sophisms that sound and humiliate us because they are meant for morons, it is true that there is nothing to do with emigration. From a country like Ergma and Ilves, perhaps it is necessary to go somewhere where you will not get smashed in the eye with the kind of talk you get into the front five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U43	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister did not answer in essence whether he would support the introduction of cheap migrant workers into Estonia or not. We were talking about other issues. For me, it's the kind of signal I can't let go of. It is known, for example, that in Võru county unemployment increased by 10% over the year and reached 17% already. And now when the Minister of Agriculture sends a letter to the Minister of the Interior so that we can bring in cheaper labour, I ask what Estonian people must do in Estonia. If we start to prefer cheap migrant labour to our people who are unemployed, there will soon be no indigenous ones left. Our people are all in Finland. The previous Prime Minister was very fond of Eurostat data. On 7 October, Eurostat disclosed the following data: According to the purchasing power standard, Latvia's GDP per capita is below Estonia's GDP, while it has grown twice as fast as Estonia's in the last five years. Compared to the end of 2008, Estonia's corresponding figure increased by 4.1% by the end of 2013, by 8.8% by Latvia and by 9.8% by Lithuania. This means that the average resident of Lithuania has missed the Estonian population by its purchasing power and the Latvian resident is about to pass if it continues at the same rate. All the analyses carried out in the European Commission show that the growth rate of these countries is faster and that Latvia is ahead of us in terms of purchasing power is a matter of a few years. At the same time, productivity, which should take us forward in the European Union, was 70% of the European Union average in 2008 and has fallen to 69.7% in the last three years. Essentially, we have not moved any closer from productivity to the European Union average. There is no way we can talk about the fact that we are going to be among the five richest European countries. In my opinion, we could have a realistic task of remaining among the two richest Baltic states somehow. Lithuania is already ahead of us and Latvia is about to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U45	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I wasn't going to come here and spend your time, but since the speeches were so emotional, I will say a few words to protect the Minister and the current coalition. Today, we discussed a report in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, such as an overview of the use and management of state assets in 2013/2014. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: The National Audit Office has indeed expressed very constructive views about the Estonian state. The most sad feeling was that the Estonian state has stopped in a certain economic situation, and we have reached a standstill. Is it the Reform Party or the IRL or Social Democrats or the Central Party that has never made it to the government? Let's each look at our own cabbage garden! But just commenting on this subject, I would like to say that it is really extremely important that enterprising people go around Europe, look at the state of life, entrepreneurship, the business environment, but come back to Estonia. One very important factor is how easy it is for enterprising people to start their own business here. There is a serious signal that the National Audit Office has just pointed out that the state should investigate more about which companies have been funded and which companies have not been funded. Have any analyses been carried out that should be supported more by the European Union's Structural Funds in Estonia? I also want to protect the Socialist Minister for Agriculture, Ivari Padari. In opposition to Tarmo Tammele, I announce that, on certain occasions, I would support Ivari Padar's call to allow migrant workers to enter the high season in the summer. Why? Let me give you a simple example that I have encountered myself. Mikitamägi, a small rural municipality of South-East Estonia, has an entrepreneur who has planted several hectares of strawberries, but when the time of strawberry harvesting comes, unfortunately there are no people to hire for help. I myself got up at 5:00 in the morning and went to help this entrepreneur because if there weren't people in the field, you wouldn't be picking strawberries, and the damage would be pretty bad. Let's not just make criticism for criticism, but think about reality. If people were willing to work in berry gardens during the summer period, entrepreneurs would also benefit from it and expand their business. But I certainly support the proposal that the country must look more towards the people who have left. More work needs to be done to make our own specialists, our own wisemen, good entrepreneurs, who will work for many people in the future, feel the support of the state. It should also provide more regional policy benefits, offer certain opportunities in the regions, etc. So the country has a lot of work to do to prevent our smart young people from leaving Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U47	The Prime Minister has a chance to speak. The Prime Minister doesn't want to do that. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U48	The next item is the question submitted by Kadri Simson, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali, Urbo Vaarmanni, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi and Kalev Kallo, members of the Riigikogu. Kalev Kallo will come to the speaker's desk on behalf of the inquisitors. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U49	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the discussion on the previous point, there was an invitation to 'Talents home to pick strawberries! '. But let's get to the next point. A group of members of the Central Party Group has submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise. The establishment of the Estonian Development Fund was laid down in the Act adopted by the Riigikogu on 15 November 2006. The Development Fund was set up in principle to fulfil two tasks: helping the country to make long-term strategic choices and supporting the financing of innovative high-risk ideas. So far, one of the most successful development fund projects has been the fund's first investment made in SmartPOST OÜ, a technology and network of self-service post offices. Unfortunately, in recent times, the Development Fund has attracted more attention to incompetence and lavish management style. As a small interim remark, 'last time' does not mean that the time for questioning is a little longer. The former Head of the Development Fund, Tõnis Arro, resigned from this position with the agreement of the parties. July 24th, but the reasons for leaving came to the public only at the beginning of September. According to the audit completed before the Head of the Development Fund left, the Head of the Development Fund spent no limits on the fund's money and rewarded himself with stock options. For example, Arro had a subsidiary of the Development Fund pay off a training of EUR 54 000, although the training was provided for one month's salary per year. A member of the board of directors of the subsidiary of the Arro Development Fund was also remunerated, which is generally outrageous. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was not satisfied with the activities of the Development Fund for a long time since the agreed analyses were not completed by the deadlines and their volume was smaller than promised. In this regard, we have three questions concerning the responsibility of the Council of the Development Fund. Since the respondent, the current Minister for Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, has also been a member of the Council of the Development Fund, he will certainly be able to enlighten us thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U50	Anne Sulling, Minister of Foreign Trade and Entrepreneurship, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U51	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer those questions. I'll read them, too. But I'm sorry, I have to get on a plane right away, so I'm gonna try to make it as soon as possible. Perhaps it is possible to answer questions in writing later than 4.25 p.m. The first question: 'Article 9 of the Estonian Development Fund Act specifically states that the highest management body of the Development Fund is the Board of the Development Fund, which plans the activities of the Development Fund and organises the management of the Development Fund and supervises the activities of the Development Fund and its management board. How is it possible that the activities of the Chairman of the Management Board were overlooked by the members of the Supervisory Board? What changes are planned for the Council to prevent such situations from happening in the future? ' I would first like to point out that the work of the Chairman of the Board of the Development Fund was overlooked by previous Council configurations, but not by the present one. It was the members of the current Council who noticed the problems and brought them to light. I would like here to acknowledge the work of Ville Jehe, the chairman of the Council of the Development Fund. He has undertaken the supervision of the Development Fund in a very thorough manner since his appointment. Ville Jehe took office in August 2013 and three months later he initiated a first debate in the Council in order to clarify the doubts raised. Internal audit was initiated this spring by a decision of the Council and the report will be finalised by mid-November this year, i.e. in a few weeks' time. The current Council reacted as soon as the problems became apparent. On 24 July 2014, at the extraordinary meeting of the Council, we discussed the matters relating to the management of the Development Fund and took the decisions that led to the departure of the Chairman of the Board on the same day. Why these circumstances have not been noticed by the previous Council configurations of the Development Fund should be asked by themselves. The monitoring mechanisms are actually all there, the question is why they were not used. The second question: 'Tõnis Arro left the position of head of the Development Fund with the agreement of the parties on 24 July this year. At that point, you were already a member of the council. For what reasons did the Council decide to terminate the employment relationship by agreement between the parties and pay Arro an additional two months' salary? " First of all, the Council wanted to maintain a peace of work in the Development Fund. Such a peaceful solution, if agreed by the parties, is normal in such situations. Secondly, the part of the agreement was also the withdrawal of Tõnis Arro's own margin options, which were legally correct and could not have been waived in the future. These options were several times higher than the two-month departure compensation. In other words, the termination agreement was more prudent financially for the development fund. I would also like to make it clear that the argument put forward in the inquiry that Tõnis Arro had allowed the subsidiary of the Development Fund to pay a training of EUR 54 000, although the training provided for an amount of one month's salary, is not true. It was precisely as a result of the work of the President of the Council that this did not happen. The third question: 'The Development Fund Act states that two members of the Riigikogu belong to the Board of the Development Fund. Do you not think that, in the interests of the future development of the Development Fund, a representative of both the coalition and the opposition could belong to the council of the Riigikogu members? 'The Development Fund is a legal person governed by public law established by the Riigikogu. In my opinion, therefore, the Riigikogu itself should decide who it wants to see in the Council of the Development Fund. However, if my personal opinion is asked, my view is that in an organisation of 24 people, a Council of nine people is overdimensioned. My recommendation is to limit the Council to a smaller number of five to seven members with expertise in the areas covered by the Development Fund. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U52	Any questions for the Minister? Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! A very short question and a very short answer. Have you considered that EAS and the Development Fund could be one institution? Their course of action and their principles are almost one, why should the state divide its activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U54	It's been discussed. This question was also on the table at a meeting of the previous Council of the Development Fund, which discussed the future of the Development Fund. The so-called added value of the Development Fund was found to have a politically neutral image. It's something you can build on. This is one argument why the Development Fund could be separate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U55	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand from the answer, the current Council is taking control of the management of the board and of the development fund much more seriously and, since levers allow, such problems should not arise in the future. Now, however, on this remark that the Board of the Development Fund could be smaller. You're a minister with an authority. Couldn't this initiative as a proposal for a legislative amendment come from the Council? Perhaps there are nine people, and perhaps there is still something that needs to be changed in the development fund law in order to improve the operation of the fund. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U57	There is no development fund directly under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Ministry simply formalises the budget of the Development Fund through its budget, which has previously been approved by the Riigikogu. The Development Fund does not have a direct relationship with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. But our discussion on the future of the fund in the Council of the Development Fund will continue on the next Friday when we have another regular meeting. As far as I know, a discussion has already begun between the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the Council of the Development Fund regarding the amendment of the Development Fund Act. Why not also make your proposals to change the size of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U58	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The minister may leave the remote, but I say to him on the way, Minister, if you come to the plenary session of the Riigikogu or the committee, the planes will not fly, the trains will not drive, the wind will not blow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U59	The following inquiry has been submitted by Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamm, Urbo Vaarmann, Heimar Lenk, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korb, Mailis Reps and Priit Toobal, who will also speak on behalf of the interviewers. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U60	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On 24 September this year, I, together with my colleagues, presented to Urmas Kruus, Minister for Health and Labour of the Centre Party Group a questioning. The inquiry concerns alcohol policy and restrictions on the sale of alcoholic beverages. This year, the issue of alcohol and alcohol policy has been particularly on the agenda. Especially since, as of 1 July, alcohol can be freely consumed in public places, as decided by the previous government. This has been a major public response, and so many have expressed their reluctance. It is clear that the Estonian people drink too much. Different quantities are recorded in statistics in different years, but on average 11.6 and 10.6 and 11 litres of strong alcohol per year per capita are clearly high. If you look at the figures of another Europe, including our neighbouring countries, how much they drink there, we can see that the amount that is consumed here in Estonia is obviously too large. There are mainly two problems involved. The first concerns public health and the second concerns all kinds of accidents, including road accidents, which are caused by excessive alcohol consumption. On the proposal of the City of Tallinn and the Centre Party, there is an important restriction on the sale of alcohol in Estonia, which is a nocturnal sales restriction that started in Tallinn and was later taken over by the state. I think it has justified itself and brought positive consequences. The faction of the Centre Party has repeatedly proposed in the Riigikogu that alcohol advertising should also be restricted in the field media, TV and radio as well as on the Internet. Unfortunately, no such restriction has been imposed so far, so let us continue to address this issue. One new idea we have come up with is to consider a ban on the sale of alcohol at petrol stations, just as it is in most European countries. It doesn't mix with driving and buying alcohol. Attorney-at-law Indrek Sirk has said very well that the sale of alcohol at gas stations is the same as the sale of firearms in bank offices. The last one's not allowed, but they do sell alcohol at gas stations. The city of Tallinn has come up with a new initiative to ban the sale of alcohol at all on a Sunday day, which would be prohibited throughout the day. In the key to these same issues, we have asked the Minister four questions, waiting for answers. The minister could also comment on Tallinn's last initiative to ban the sale of alcohol on Sundays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U61	Urmas Kruuse, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U62	President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! Indeed, members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry. There are four questions, and I will try to respond to them. The first question asks why alcohol sales at petrol stations are allowed. In preparing the Green Paper on alcohol policy, the proposal was to ban the retail sale of alcohol at filling stations, in fact, under discussion. Following in-depth disputes, the Working Party on the restriction of availability decided not to support this proposal. This working group developed a number of arguments during the discussion which gave them the basis to say that this restriction might not serve its purpose. The most compelling argument was that the proposals are legally quite difficult to implement. Most of the current shops in a gas station have been registered as a separate store and the ban on the sale of alcohol at gas stations would not affect this situation. Participants also pointed out that many filling stations are located in the immediate vicinity of shopping centres and other large shops or even on their territory, which inevitably means contact between the body selling alcohol and the gas station. In conclusion, it was estimated that the ban on the sale of alcohol at filling stations and on the territory of the filling station would not produce the desired results. Really, such a ban would stop selling alcohol in only a few gas stations across Estonia, certainly not in those that the proposers actually had in mind. The second question: 'Please explain how the ban on the sale of alcohol at night has affected the number of drunk injuries and has reduced violence. ' A special assessment of the impact of the ban on the sale of alcohol at night has not been done, unfortunately. Other issues have been included in the study, such as the availability of alcohol for minors. Both injuries and violence have generally decreased in Estonia, but it is very difficult to assess the role played by banning the sale of alcohol at night in this positive development. In fact, the overall reduction in alcohol consumption, an active information campaign and many other factors have contributed to these welcome changes. However, some international research confirms that a nocturnal sale ban can have some positive effects. In Estonia, too, police and health sector representatives have expressed a supportive attitude. But it is generally clear that our own attitudes, rules of conduct, and standards are the most effective. Question 3: 'Please comment on whether an alcoholic beverage is, in your opinion, a consumer product, which must be guaranteed by law, or whether it is goods whose availability and consumption should be restricted by law. ' Here I can say that alcoholic beverages are certainly not common consumer goods. It is a substance whose overuse could harm the health of both the user and, worst of all, innocent bystanders. That is why the availability and consumption of alcohol in Estonia is limited. Alcohol is subject to a number of restrictions that are not imposed on any ordinary consumer product and is regulated by a special alcohol law alongside other laws. In detail, the restrictions on alcohol handling and advertising are discussed in Annex 1 of the Green Paper on alcohol policy. I'll name a few more important ones. The availability, production and marketing of alcohol are strictly regulated; all alcohol legally on the Estonian market is registered, its quality and labelling are subject to control by the Veterinary and Food Board; production is subject to supervision, which controls both the quality of production and compliance with fiscal discipline; retail sales of alcohol are regulated much more strictly than the sale of ordinary goods. Retail sales in shops are limited from 22 o'clock in the evening to 10 o'clock in the morning. The ban concerns children's institutions, health care institutions, etc. There are provisions in the Alcohol Act that must protect minors from alcohol. No alcohol may be sold or given to minors and no work is allowed where they should be exposed to loose alcohol. There are also restrictions on alcohol advertising concerning both its content and its exposure. For example, the advert must contain a warning: 'Attention! It's alcohol. Alcohol can harm your health. ' There are further restrictions. Of course, alcohol is subject to excise duty, while Estonia's level of excise duty is above the average income of the population in Europe. The state budget strategy also foresees an increase in excise duty over the next four years. Question 4: 'Please explain what has already been completed from the Green Paper on alcohol policy and how a further timetable is planned to meet it. " Indeed, many of the measures in the Green Paper have already been implemented or implemented. One of the things you can write'made' behind is the police traffic line. The Green Paper envisages the trans-Estonian route launched in South Estonia, and this was already done before the Green Paper was finalised. This line is important because it helps people in traffic who seem suspicious and strange to travel. This has led to the discovery of drunken people who have driven a motor vehicle. A number of measures are those that require consistent action and therefore, in a classic sense, they can never be said to have been carried out or carried out. Last week, a working group of the social partners met to discuss how to start practically implementing the objectives set out in the Green Paper. This working group will continue to work together to achieve the objectives of the Green Paper. The Green Paper process has led to a number of initiatives that will specifically launch the actions of the Green Paper. For example, the "Smart Parent" programme, which has funding from the Ministry of the Interior, and the "Efect" programme with the same content as the Institute for Health Development, are aimed at improving parents' awareness and skills. It is certainly important that when a child or a youth grows, his or her behaviour and attitudes toward alcohol are clearly conservative so as to prevent alcohol abuse and the resulting crimes or wrongdoing. As a result, a number of initiatives in the free sector have been taken, such as the 'Driving towards Europe less!' ' and the student action 'September doesn't drink! '. The cooperation of the Estonian Traders' Association with the Institute for Health Development, which concerned preventing the sale of alcohol to minors, is certainly worth mentioning from the private sector. There were posters in the shops that warned people under the age of 30 that they could be asked for a document if they bought alcohol. Some alcohol taxation plans have also been completed and exceeded. If the Green Paper foresees a 5% increase in excise duty, this year it rose by 15% and the increase will continue. The biggest project launched in connection with the Green Paper is the development of health and advisory services. The use of funds from the Structural Funds for the new period has begun in the interests of public health, which means that we have EUR 10 million to use, which is aimed specifically at preventing alcohol dependence and developing advisory services. It is a desire to take it to a new qualitative level in Estonia, so that it will have a long-term impact on alcohol consumption, including people who have put their health at risk by drinking too much. Each year, the Ministry reports on the implementation of the guidelines for the Green Paper to the government and civil society organisations as well as to the general public. Each year, the government receives a report on the activities of the previous year, together with an annual report on the population health plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U63	Now, questions to the Minister of Health and Labour. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U64	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. It seems to me that, somehow, this alcohol policy is going very badly. First, a green book was written for years. It now turns out that the Green Paper did not have an operational programme and is just beginning to write it. It could take years, too. It's not like there's any way we can get results. Of course, all such dissuasive and preventive actions are necessary. But it can be seen that they do not produce the expected result. The last major drop in alcohol consumption was in 2006 when a ban on the sale of alcohol at night was introduced. Since then, alcohol consumption in Estonia has actually moved up. There's only been a few decimal places down. I believe that more clear prohibitions and restrictions are needed. The city of Tallinn has issued a proposal to ban the sale of alcohol on Sundays. Have you discussed this in the ministry and in the entire government? How do you feel about the proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U65	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I do not know which statistical database is based on the argument that alcohol consumption per capita has fallen dramatically since the ban on the sale of alcohol at night. I've got a table in front of me that shows the amount of absolute alcohol per capita in liters. For example, in 2006 it was more than 10 litres, and in 2007 it was more than 12 litres. It cannot be said that this ban led to a decrease in consumption, on the contrary, in fact to an increase. The same is true for 2005 and 2006 - a clear upward trend, not a downward trend. But that's it. I would point out that this is not a matter of developing a specific implementing act, but of achieving the objectives set out in the Green Paper. This requires a very broad social agreement. We will take from there some indicators that are important to us when we compare ourselves with Europe. One such thing is certainly the consumption of absolute alcohol per capita. We want it to be consistently less than eight liters. We will try to achieve this through the actions agreed in the Green Paper. Actually, I'm sure we'll achieve that. As for banning the sale of alcohol on Sunday, I do not quite understand what the city of Tallinn is thinking. At one point, labels for alcohol were put out; the next day, it is said that the sale of alcohol should be banned on Sunday. I do not understand this, I do not see a policy based on a very clear strategy and no convictions. I think that if we want national influence, every measure that is being launched with this aim must be sensible and its usefulness must be proven to some extent. The problems of alcohol consumption are described in the Green Paper and there we also have very many ambitious targets. The results of international studies have shown that if consumption of absolute alcohol exceeds six litres, it will have a negative impact on both human health and the economy. That has to be taken into account. We are trying to move forward step by step and, in fact, we are convinced that we can also achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U66	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In some ancient Greek cities, undiluted red wine was allowed for young people from the age of 30. In the United States, the ban on buying alcohol, even buying beer, is a crime until it is 21 years old. We have what we have. I'm interested in your personal opinion. Let's take a scale, for example, 18 to 30 years. What age could a young person have from which to obtain the right to buy strong alcohol? I'm just curious.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U68	My personal opinion is that alcohol consumption is clearly a cultural issue. Perhaps playing with the introduction of specific years of life will not produce such a result if it gives us an informed education, the point of which is that it makes sense for us to control alcohol rather than vice versa. Alcohol must not control our consciousness. Knowing these different attitudes and perceptions, I am actually convinced that the question is not so much whether the buyer is 21 or 25 years old, but how alcohol is viewed. We must start to view this attitude as a part of culture, based on the conviction that alcohol must be handled with great care and discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U69	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I was somewhat astonished in your answer by the explanation of how the Green Paper could not in any way be produced to the effect that it was possible to prohibit the sale of alcohol at a gas station. Well, the store is made out in the name of its own owner, but there are other reasons. A lot of countries have been able to walk around a bit, where there is a store on a gas station and alcohol is not sold there. Anything's possible. Only we can't. I imagine these round-table discussions were probably held with the owners of gas station stores. Then, of course, no agreement could be reached. But are you, as Minister, unable to put forward a concrete draft to implement such a proposal? I think the Riigikogu would support the fact that alcohol would not be sold at petrol stations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U71	In fact, the Minister expressed the practical approach of this working group to achieving some or other alcohol policy objectives. And a common understanding was reached that such a ban would not bear fruit. As I said, any measure that is being implemented in a country should, very well, bring it closer to its objective. Very many gas stations are located near the shops. Indeed, if a driver could not buy alcohol at a gas station, it would seem logical to conclude that in the future we will have fewer drinkers driving and fewer injuries. Unfortunately, it doesn't quite work out at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U72	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U73	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. This probably does not want to prove that the availability of alcohol is linked to alcohol consumption. Actually, it's sad. More than 6,000 drunk drivers drive our roads every day, but nothing is done. Here's the question. If I go to the grocery store and I want to buy groceries, should I go through the liquor shelves on a mandatory basis so I can buy something? Or should these shelves be in a separate room?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U74	When it comes to the logic of access to products sold in shops, in the context of the Green Paper, the question of whether alcohol should be in the general space or in a stand separated from it will certainly be the subject of the following discussions. This issue is on the agenda and will certainly be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U75	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U76	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! At one time, a bill tabled by the Central Party was discussed in this Chamber, which was intended to limit alcohol advertising, and then the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi answered the questions, who should now be our colleague in this Chamber. He said he'd be very busy, but somehow he's missing today, otherwise he'd confirm what I said. Jürgen Ligi, answering my questions at the time, said that alcohol advertising could not be restricted, because it would clearly harm the interests of local producers, which is not a patriotic activity at all. As a member of the same government, do you agree that the production of alcohol is one of the important links in our country's economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U77	As a minister, I think that alcohol production is simply part of economic activity. If you are asking if the alcohol advertising in Estonia could become even more liberal, then as a minister, I will definitely say no. In this regard too, there are proposals in the Green Paper that we would like to implement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U78	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I would like to clarify what concerns the economy. If you take the figures for the previous year, what was the turnover of alcohol production in euro and how much does the state budget receive in relation to alcohol sales? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U80	Thank you. In order not to be mistaken, I will not mention specific figures, I am prepared to specify them later. But it is clear that the current government wants to achieve precisely that alcohol is not so readily available because of its price by increasing excise duty at a premature rate. We are convinced that the more expensive the alcohol is, the less the overall consumption is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U81	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, This summer several of my acquaintances from the Netherlands visited Estonia and looked at our channels in Estonian. They were surprised that there were a lot of alcohol ads at night, almost every other advertisement related to alcohol. Have you not discussed the possibility of reducing alcohol advertising on television?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U83	I hope your honorable guests have also noticed that alcohol advertising occurs at a certain time on television. This restriction is imposed by thinking that minors will not see these ads. I will stick to my words that advertising as a whole should not be increased. Now the question of where and whether to restrict at all. Restrict Advertising on TV or in Other Forms? If we look at the media more widely, we must recognise that there is alcohol advertising in the media and elsewhere in our environment. But I can't be in favour of it ever increasing. We still want to move towards a reduction in the share of alcohol advertising and less success cults and instigations in this advertising, that it makes you feel comfortable. This means that visions that differ from the current advertising clips are also possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U84	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U85	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. Listening to the Minister responsible for this area today, it is a little unfortunate to see how the problem that affects almost all Estonian people is being treated. I mean, not just those who drink too much, but the consequences of this, be it road accidents, domestic violence, etc. With these consequences, all humans have been exposed. Clearly, 11.6 litres of strong alcohol per capita is very, very high. This is considerably more than on average in the European Union. If you listen to the Minister, it is clear that there has been no other action other than such preventive action. Once again, this action is clearly necessary, but it has not led to results. I would like to stress that the last real and impacted measure was the ban on the sale of alcohol at night, first in Tallinn and then all over Estonia. I welcome and welcome the new proposal by the City of Tallinn to introduce a ban on selling alcohol on Sunday. I think it's going the same way as it did with the ban on the sale of alcohol at night: Tallinn will do it, for a while the state will watch and see that it works in Tallinn, and then set it up throughout the country. If not before, then after the Centre Party is in the government coalition. We'll do it then. In addition, we ban alcohol advertising on radio, TV, the Internet and the outdoor media. A radical change is needed to make progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U86	There are no further requests to speak. Is there something the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. I will also close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U87	Now we're planning a free microphone, after a hammer hit, of course. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U88	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, That's a start. In some years I take a special course in one university or another, usually it's practical political science. Speaking to the students about propaganda and political advertising, I will, of course, give them examples. I have an example of a successful and very selling ad with me right now. It is not quickly forgotten, you probably remember it, and our viewers all over Estonia will remember it. I have it in Russian, but he was both Russian and Estonian. What's in here? A down payment on the utility. In fact, what a humiliation of public utility payments - 50% in our world, where everything gets more expensive! Usually students ask if people are so stupid that they believe in such things. Even a young student realizes that in a world with inflation, 50% is just a mockery. But people believe, they do! 'But what happens then,' the students ask, 'if in four years, utilities have increased by 50% instead? ' I say they expect this thing to be forgotten. You see, there's Juhan Parts standing on this commercial, such a nice, beautiful young gentleman. If that happens, he'll make some new material. By the way, esteemed speaker, are you aware that we are in the country now, sorry, the obšchegossudarstvenny referendum, or national referendum. But it's on. I got this letter in my personal mailbox in Narva. Very beautiful letter, six words in Estonian, the rest of the text in Russian. In Estonian, "Saaja pays postal charges' and "Ajame Eesti tehju'. Everything else, as I explained to the students, is another campaign that has to fool people. Here it is offered to make income tax exempt for some vast amount. It is likely to be exactly the same idea as this 50% idea at all! It's not conceivable. My modest calculations show that if this were done, the state budget would lose about half a billion euros, with local authorities losing about a quarter of a billion euros. At present, they receive just under 800 million euros, which means that almost a third of the local government revenue will simply disappear. Why am I saying this? Because everything ends here with 800 euros. You don't look any higher. My students find it particularly interesting to see that those who are poorer are given and that nothing is taken from those who are richer. Works very well in two directions! Anyone who makes more than 1,000 euros can see from here that no one touches him. And, of course, it's still possible to get a scarf or some weird paws if you pass on your data and look again at that noble face who promised you something four years ago, you don't remember what he promised, but there was something beautiful. And again, something beautiful is promised! But the big news is, of course, we have a referendum going on in the country. I'd like to know now that I don't exactly remember who's organizing it and how. And who will take the decision to hold a referendum? There's another good news. Don't tell me that my election materials are only in Russian. I'm gonna put this letter under your nose, and I'm gonna suggest that you go and look in another place for those who are willing to spend money on bilingual materials. It would be very easy, wouldn't it, to send them in two languages? No, they didn't. They kept it together. Everybody's gonna stick together. And, of course, the third thing: thank you for sending it to me personally! I'm very grateful. My students are grateful. And I hope that fantasy will continue to be the brother or sister of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I do not know who he may be, because elections are coming and coming and coming and fantasy is still needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-03_U89	There are no further requests to speak. Monday's session is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.51 p.m.
