ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 19 March: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. Currently 81 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present and 20 members of the Riigikogu are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U2	We are going to address today's agenda items. The first point is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to ask Mart Nut, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U3	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission initiated this draft law on 29 January with regard to proposal No 21 of the Chancellor of Justice. The current Citizenship Act provides that an alien who wishes to acquire Estonian citizenship must, among other things, have a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence. In addition, the person must have lived in Estonia for at least eight years on the basis of a residence permit or right of residence before the date on which the application for citizenship was submitted, the last five years of which are permanent. There is also a later waiting period, after submitting the application for Estonian citizenship, the person must have lived in Estonia for six months. This practice fully meets the requirements of the European Union, but the Chancellor of Justice found that the application of these conditions, i.e. the existence of a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence, to a person who has effectively resided in Estonia during the period required, but who did not have a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence, infringes the fundamental right of equality under the Constitution. Therefore, for persons who, although in fact, lived in Estonia but who did not have a legal basis for doing so, an exception should be made. In this context, the Commission initiated a legislative amendment. The exception is granted to a person who applies for Estonian citizenship after the age of 15 and who has stayed in Estonia for at least eight years before the age of 15, whether or not he or she had a legal basis for staying in Estonia during that period. This should be a personal-friendly change. However, on the basis of the draft law and in line with the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, this person should fulfil the following conditions: First, he has not settled permanently in another country. Secondly, he or she has legalised his or her stay in Estonia at the time of applying for citizenship, i.e. he or she must have a valid residence permit or right of residence at the time of applying for citizenship. Third, he has lived in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit or right of residence six months after his application for Estonian citizenship was submitted. The number of these persons is not very high. As of 14 February, according to the Population Information System, there were 407 people under the age of 15 who did not have a valid residence permit, but 384 of them were under one year old. So this problem does not concern a very large number of people. Siiri Leskov, adviser to the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior and Julia Koger, legal adviser to the same department, were present at the preparation of the draft. I will also introduce procedural decisions. All decisions were taken unanimously, so there is consensus among the political parties in the Riigikogu on this issue. We proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 18 March. a, to conclude the first reading and to set 10 working days for the submission of amendments, i.e. proposals to be submitted by 1 April 2014. My humble person was appointed rapporteur. As I said, all the proposals were made in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U4	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U5	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I think I have a very wrong idea. Correct me, please, if that's the case! This problem does not concern those under 15 years of age but older people. [[???M. Nutt: 'Just!'???]] Can you specify their number? How many of these people are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U6	I've already read that number once, I'm trying to do it again. Siiri Leskov replied to this question that, according to the population register as of 14 February, there were fewer than 15-year-olds who did not have a valid residence permit, 407 but 384 of them were under one year old. This topic does not concern them, as if they do not have the nationality of any country, they will have the opportunity to receive Estonian citizenship by registration. Unfortunately, the exact number of persons affected by this question who are over 15 years old is not known to me at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U7	Any more questions? No more questions for the waitress. Thanks a lot, Mart Nutt! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 586 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 586 amendments. a on 1 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U8	Our second item is the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu' of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu Committee on Inquiry' of the VEB Foundation' draft 606 first reading. For a presentation, please contact Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry on the Processing and Settlement of Claims Aggregated by the VEB Foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This draft decision of the Riigikogu requires the Commission to submit the final report on the outcome of its work to the Riigikogu and the public by 18 June 2014 at the latest, after which the mandate of the committee ends. This point was under discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and was supported by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Indeed, for the sake of history, it should be said that the VEB Fund investigation committee unanimously set September 2014 as the first deadline, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made a consensual change. The six reasons why the Commission should be extended are as follows: Firstly, the VEB Foundation Committee of Inquiry remains in contact with one key witness, the former chairman of the board of TSL International, Mr Mati, with whom we have an agreement that he will still come to explain to the Commission. Secondly, there is still a need to analyse the documents. The deeper the Commission has dug with the National Audit Office, the more material has been found. A good example is the 20 files found in SEB a month ago, 500 pages each. Everyone claimed that they had been destroyed, but had not, in fact, been preserved. Thirdly, as new versions have emerged, we are forced to interrogate several people, such as members of the governing bodies of former North-Estonian Bank and Eesti Pank, for a second time. Fourthly, the National Audit Office negotiates with the Court of Auditors of the Russian Federation. As a result, we hope to get new documents from Russia on the matters to be clarified, which have not yet been dealt with. Fifthly, we have consulted the Estonian Forensic Institute. The Institute has proposed ways to identify the authors of a misinformed letter as a result of the expertise. Sixthly, since its creation, the VEB Foundation Research Committee has consistently stressed that we are working with the National Audit Office and that the Commission should be able to use the results of the audit carried out at the same time by the National Audit Office, not vice versa. Perhaps when the Commission presents the final report, the National Audit Office should have already come up with all its arguments so that we can rely on them. Then there cannot be a foolish situation where the Riigikogu Committee of Research draws conclusions from data which the audit of the National Audit Office rejects two weeks later, for example. This is an important aspect of the extension of working time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U10	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. You rightly said that we have once extended the deadline for this committee's work. I remember that there was only one argument in the debate at the time in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: the National Audit Office has not completed its report and has extended the deadline for its work. There are now quite a number of compelling arguments. Can it not be that, by 18 June, which is the new deadline according to the draft, the remaining arguments have not fallen away and that the Commission must again propose to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Parliament a prolongation of the work of the VEB Fund because of these three or four arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U12	Thank you. Indeed, this extension also started because on 25 February the National Audit Office sent us a letter informing us that they would extend their deadline. But if I answer you honestly, I certainly can't rule out a new extension. After all, there may be circumstances that literally alter all our activities or our existing principles. They may be apparent from what Aleksandr Matt says, but also from the expert analyses of the Estonian Forensic Institute. A new extension cannot be ruled out, but I consider it unlikely. I repeat, all these renewal decisions have been taken unanimously in the Committee on Inquiry, and we will continue to maintain this line.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U13	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U14	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! As a Member of the Commission myself, I know quite clearly that all the ideas we have are empty in the sense that we cannot change the world on their basis, because even if someone has done something wrong, it is all outdated. Does it not seem to you that the work of the Commission at one point, and above all I am talking about the chairman person, may look like a show business that is used to achieve political objectives, but the actual content of this work remains relatively modest?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U15	Thank you. The Commission and the Chairman of the Commission have done their work on the basis of the Riigikogu, our own decision of March 2013, which formed this committee. There were four objectives, and we want them to be fully achieved. Once we have chosen this path together in this Chamber, I see no reason now to decide on the side that no, we will leave the job incomplete and do it properly. On the contrary, we study all the possibilities and versions and put together the result of this work in a report so that Estonian society can evaluate the actions of the day. If we look at our work, we cannot say that nothing has happened when criminal proceedings have been opened. In society, it is also known that it is often more important than a fine or some other punishment that your good name is smeared. So I cannot agree with Mr Riisalu that the Commission has done empty work or that it is in someone's show business. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U16	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U17	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. My second question is about one particular person you expect to testify to. I'm interested in Alexander Matt. As we know, the Commission has been doing its job for nearly a year, and this gentleman you have been waiting for about that long to be heard. You mentioned as one important argument why it would be necessary to extend the work of the VEB Fund committee, precisely that you would like to hear what he said. What gives you reason to believe that, in the time remaining until 18 June, this witness will have to testify if he has not done so in a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U18	Thank you. First of all, the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act also provides that if no one comes to give statements from the committee, they can be fined with 300 fine units. In our committee, for the first time, there was a need to implement this provision, but then it became clear that there was no extra-judicial tribunal to do so. We have proposed that this be done. The answer to a specific question is very simple. The Commission has done a good job and it is clear to us that this person will come to our committee. We're in contact with him now. We searched for this contact through all kinds of channels, we did it through power structures, we wrote him certified and ordinary letters. Today I can tell you we're in contact with him. It is a clear sign that he will come to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U19	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I'm a little confused. You expressed the view that all your members of the Commission were consensually in agreement with the extension of the deadline. Väino Linde thought it wasn't like that. I also listened to Mr Riisalu's question, and I asked myself, in turn, where do you have this consensus then? But my question follows from this logic that the chair of this committee should belong to a representative of the opposition. Do you share this view? Will the chairmanship of this committee go back to being divided?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U21	Thank you. Firstly, as regards the consensus on the decision, we can review from the protocol that it was a consensual decision, supported by all the members of the Commission: Aivar Riisalu, Väino Linde, Marko Pomerants, Rainer Vakra and also Andres Anvelt. As far as the other side of the question is concerned, I think it is up to the Commission to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U22	No further questions. Thank you, Rainer Vakra! Mr Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to ask for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the extension of the deadline for the work of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry on 11 March. Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, and Tarmo Olgo, Auditor General of the National Audit Office were invited to the discussion. I will not repeat the reasons why the committee of inquiry wishes to extend the deadline, but I will talk about what the National Audit Office thought and what the debate in the committee was. Tarmo Olgo said that the National Audit Office mainly evaluates whether the decision of the Riigikogu on the formation of the VEB Fund was carried out as decided by the Riigikogu and within this framework it will be determined whether the correct information was provided to the Riigikogu at the time of the decision. The National Audit Office will also determine whether the VEB Fund register was formed as decided by the Riigikogu and whether it was held according to the rules that the Riigikogu prescribed in its decision. One of the key issues of the audit is whether comprehensive and correct information on TSL International transactions has been provided to the public. Olgo explained that in the beginning the National Audit Office thought that the audit would be completed by the end of March 2014. But it has now become apparent that it will be ready by the beginning of June. This is due to the fact that it was initially underestimated how much information has survived in SEB. It has now become apparent that SEB has stored a great deal of information, 20 to 25 files, plus account cards, daily balance sheets, etc. This information makes it quite possible to restore how the claims of the Vnešekonombank were created in the first place and which persons are related to those claims. The National Audit Office has been restoring the entire movement of funds of two banks in Vnešekonombank since the beginning of 1992. As the information is not well archived, it will take some time to process this data. Olgo noted that the National Audit Office must check the information several times so that the information provided to the public can be absolutely certain. The members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had many questions. I will mention some of them. To the question of exactly when the National Audit Office discovered the materials in SEB, Tarmo Olgo replied that about three weeks ago. To the question of what specific documents would need to be examined and evaluated at the Estonian Forensic Institute, Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Investigation Committee, replied that the criminal proceedings initiated by the prosecutor's office concerned those documents which Vahur Kraft himself brought to the Committee of Investigation on 16 September 2013. In addition, the letter signed by Vahur Kraft on 5 April 1995 has a handwritten date in the upper part of the letter. The position of the Estonian Institute of Forensic Science is that it is theoretically possible to determine by exclusion who wrote the date there. The chairman of the committee of inquiry replied that the reason was the decision of the Riigikogu of 12 March 2013 on the basis of which the committee of inquiry was formed. The committee of inquiry has worked to ensure that the decision adopted by the Riigikogu is implemented successfully, that the truth can be clarified as far as possible and understood by society. Vakra felt that she did not see any reason why the decision of the Riigikogu should be executed in a non-exhaustive manner. He explained that the fear of the committee of inquiry is that if the committee presents the final report and the National Audit Office later rejects the result of the committee in principle, the committee of inquiry, as well as the Riigikogu as a whole, will remain in a foolish light in society. The material of the National Audit Office is the basis for the final report of the Committee of Inquiry, because the National Audit Office clearly has several times more capacity to process documents than the Committee of Inquiry of the Riigikogu. Tarmo Olgo added that the committee of inquiry did not assume that the VEB Fund register was correct. The committee of inquiry expects this to be correct. The National Audit Office examines whether specific persons were still in the VEB Fund register and whether they had such a requirement as they claim, and whether this requirement was in the right size. The National Audit Office wants more time to check all claims several times. Today, there is reason to believe that the VEB Fund register was not entirely correct, but in order to say it publicly, it must be absolutely convinced. To the question of whether the National Audit Office can proceed with its investigation regardless of whether or not the Committee of Inquiry of the Riigikogu is still working, Olgo replied that the National Audit Office will in any case proceed with its work. After a long discussion, a consensus within the Commission was reached that the deadline for the work of the Committee of Inquiry should be extended, but not as long as the committee of inquiry initially requested. The date of 18 June 2014 was unanimously considered to be the right date. In addition, the Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 March, i.e. today, and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 20 March 2014. The rapporteur was appointed here. When the first reading of the draft is completed, we will propose that the draft be sent to second reading by 27 March 2014 and then the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-18_U24	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Peep Aru! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of draft 606 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 606 amendments. 15.15 p.m. on March 20th. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10:26 a.m.
