ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 15th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and three other members of the Riigikogu, I have the honour to present an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Urve Palo. The inquiry is called "the fulfilment of the objectives of the Ministry'. You know, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, it is also strange for me, as a representative of the opposition, to pass on such a benevolent question to the Minister for Economic Affairs in a situation where the growth in total production was negative in the first quarter and where we should pay much attention to the Estonian economy. The only hope was that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications would come up with new ideas and help us get out of this, say, crisis hole. I was hoping for it, and it came. If, in the previous job, the most important objective of the Minister was to integrate and integrate, integrate and integrate, then now this idea also came over the economy. One of the first steps the Minister for Economic Affairs took was that he went to schools. He went to explain to schoolchildren that the Estonian economy is now dependent on them. In my opinion, the fresh idea is not to communicate with economic people, employees and employers, but to communicate with schoolchildren, to integrate them into the Estonian economy. Glad to see the fresh winds that have come with the new minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 67 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 34 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U4	Dear Riigikogu, we are going to today's agenda. The debate on the national issue 'Roadmap for Youth 2014‐2020' is of key importance on the agenda. I will present to you the progress of the debate. First of all, Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, then gives a presentation for up to 20 minutes and questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Third, Reet Sillavee, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Youth Association, will make a 20-minute presentation, followed by questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Now, get your attention! A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to all rapporteurs on this item, three after two oral questions. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. All members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. At the request of the Committee on Culture, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups be heard first, then other members of the Riigikogu. The debate will run until the end of the Thursday, which is today's session. Let's get to the reports. First of all, I would like to ask for a presentation by Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture in the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U5	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased that the issue of youth has reached the Chamber of Riigikogu as a key national issue. Youth work is one of the priorities of the country. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has already discussed youth issues three times this year, and now today's debate on a matter of national importance in this Chamber. We have involved all those involved in the youth field in our discussions and received quite a lot of interesting ideas and initiatives from them. Here's what I'm gonna give you. The aim of the country is to involve young people from the age of 7 to 26 even more in social processes and the sustainable development of high-quality youth work, so that our young people have more opportunities for development and self-realization, to become full members of society. Our focus is on five aspects: firstly, creating more opportunities for young people to develop creativity, initiative and joint action; secondly, reducing the impact of unequal circumstances on young people's development opportunities and avoiding exclusion; thirdly, active participation of young people in the community and decisions; fourthly, success in the labour market; fifthly, high-quality youth policy and youth work. There are currently some 29,00007-year-old young people in Estonia, who make up just over 22% of the total Estonian population. Unfortunately, this number is in decline. In addition, we still have a number of negative trends affecting and threatening the youth sector, such as the growing exodus of young people, unemployment aged 15 to 19, which is a bit high in the number of young people who are not in education or employment, high in relative poverty, and also problematic health behaviour, smoking, alcohol and drug use. At the same time, the structure of youth work in Estonia has become quite diverse over the years. It is based on its own initiative and covers 5000 posts, plus volunteers. The main forms of youth work are, for example, youth centres, recreational schools, youth associations, youth participation bodies, school youth work, etc. One of the key words in the youth field is, in my opinion, education and education. Everything starts at home, home education creates a foundation for young people's attitudes, attitudes to life, behaviour later on, etc. In doing so, it is important to identify and support young people at an early stage and to raise parents' awareness of potential threats, ways of solving problems and the opportunities offered. A good education is one of the pillars of success in life. Education must be competitive and meet the expectations of the labour market. I want to emphasise the importance of lifelong learning, because learning does not end with graduating from high school, certainly not. The national curriculum must help make choices and encourage creativity. More emphasis should be placed on practical activities in the curriculum and the number of electives could be higher in schools. Learning programmes should be more flexible, offering both full-time and part-time learning, in particular in higher education, which would be more conducive to the development of work habits. Non-formal education is also important. An interesting example of real life for you. Mariana Mutso, a young girl, was involved in the scouting movement and engaged in mountain climbing there. From there he became interested in the area and had the opportunity to set up his own company, a private limited company called the Ronian. Currently, this company is active and is active in this field. Again, a good example of how non-formal education can actually lead to job creation for yourself and others. Greater integration of formal and non-formal education is undoubtedly important. In my opinion, such qualities as entrepreneurship, activity and courage, learning ability and the ability to adapt to change need to continue to be deepened. Of course, there is also a need to develop the ability to manage, process and analyse information with a large amount of information, logical thinking, as well as 'financial literacy', which would enable a person to cope materially well in real life. A large part of these skills are covered by the Entrepreneurship Learning Programme, which has successfully taken up upper secondary school and which I believe should also be vigorously applied in primary school, so that young people get these skills and experiences as early as possible. A very important block alongside education, which is actually the basis of everything, is health and a healthy and athletic lifestyle. It is particularly good to mention this during this year's movement. Say 'A healthy body with a healthy spirit! ' is very correct. It is important that the state also promotes sporting and healthy lifestyles. When your health is well, your spiritual activity will be fine. We all know that after a little running exercise or swimming, thinking is a whole different level. Unfortunately, the physical health of young people has become considerably worse over the years. This must be taken very seriously and given more than ever. I consider positive examples in the form of friends, teachers and parents to be an important part of this. Young people have many opportunities to spend their time athletics, healthily, at school there are physical education classes and various sports competitions, sports clubs and sports clubs, as well as playing with friends in the fresh air, walking in the forest, etc. But our kids are still too much behind computers, smart phones and TV. Consideration could be given to including one physical education class in the curriculum and to enabling young people to use sports bases free of charge in cooperation with local authorities. When dealing with the youth field, the so-called NEETs cannot be overcome or changed. These are young people who do not work, do not complete education or participate in training. This is the most problematic target group of 15 to 29 years of age, which needs to be given more attention. There are about 40,000 young people in Estonia.In 2011, they accounted for 13.4% of our young people, which is true, a slightly lower figure than the average in the European Union, where it is 15.4%. The problem, as well as the challenge, is reaching out to these young people. Open youth centres play an important role here. The inclusion and integration of NEETs in society is a clear priority for the country. When we talk about the labour market and unemployment measures, we need to start with a very painful issue of youth unemployment, which is a major problem in the European Union as a whole. Youth unemployment in the European Union is increasing, with an unemployment rate of 4.18 million young people in 2008, with an estimated 5.56 million young people this year. In Estonia, however, youth unemployment has decreased quite significantly. Our youth unemployment was the highest in 2010, when this figure was 33%, now this percentage has fallen to 16. When it comes to long-term unemployment for men aged 15 to 29, this figure was on average 7.5% in the European Union in 2013, while in Estonia it was considerably lower than 5.3%. According to Eurostat, the figures for women are 6.6% in Europe and 4.6% in Estonia. This does not mean, however, that there is no problem in Estonia. The conditions for registration as an unemployed person and registration as an unemployed person also play a role here. A possible solution is to propose even more free movement of labour and a more unified but dynamic economic space. The principles of the European Union Youth Guarantee have been developed to combat youth unemployment in Europe. The focus is once again on NEETs. The aim is to develop national measures to ensure that young people up to the age of 25 have a high quality of work, education, apprenticeships or traineeships at the latest four months after becoming unemployed or leaving formal education. The Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund has 20 measures aimed at the unemployed, and young people use them quite actively, such as training, career guidance, job search workshops, work placements and wage support, which are the most popular measures among young people. When it comes to entering the labour market, the problem is the lack of young people's work experience and skills. Businesses estimate that working life is relatively different from the education system, so synchronising and aligning these two parties could be one of our goals. I find that our young people are at times too impatient, they want to get a good job, a big salary, and so on right away. Reducing such impatience could be one of our goals for young people, it must be explained that not everything can be done right away and at the same time. It is important to create work habits and work experience, and it is interesting to point out that entrepreneurs also value young people's hobbies in recruitment, such as participation in scouting circles, volunteering, sports and art circles, etc. However, the main thing in all of this is the fulfilment of the obligation to attend school, which should be firmly focused. It is also important to offer more traineeships. In addition to vocational and higher education institutions, these opportunities could also be created in comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools. Career counseling is important. If we expect a young person to make a fundamental decision after 9th grade, whether to choose an application direction or academic direction, or to go to work, career guidance will play a very important role in this. The Estonian Student Association has proposed to include career studies in the tertiary curriculum of basic school. Chess are one of the most popular places to enter the labour market. It is true that there are very different chess places from one region to another, with larger cities and other settlements. There is certainly a need to create more chess places outside larger settlements. The role of local authorities is important here. In order to involve young people more in the labour market, it would be wise to give certain incentives to businesses, such as to compensate for training costs, to appoint supporters, etc. The Enterprise Estonia has a number of measures to encourage entrepreneurship and also to bring young people into business, such as support for start-ups, entrepreneurial days, business weeks, mentoring programme, counselling, start-up and growth grants, competitions for business projects, etc. It is a pleasure to note that we have developed a network of big entrepreneurs called 'Dreams of Life!' ' with 123 partners. Their aim is to visit schools, study trips to companies, organise competitions and trainings. They also look for partner companies for schools. I think it is a very good initiative. A little regulation. Labour regulations should be more flexible. We have come to the conclusion in the discussions in the Committee on Culture on this subject that the regulations on working time, prohibited work, to some extent contract terms, should be reviewed and made more flexible. Businesses have highlighted excessive bureaucracy. At the same time, it is still important to have continuous monitoring to ensure that young people's rights and young people are protected. What are young people's opportunities to participate in society today? The main thing is for young people to be active and to have the courage to participate, to have a say in improving the processes of society. The participation of young people in youth organisations and decision-making bodies is important. I know this from my own hands, having worked for a long time in the local youth club, council and youth council. Scouting, sports clubs, political youth organisations, student municipalities are just a short list of all options. The need to expand the opportunities of youth councils has been highlighted in order to increase involvement and cooperation at regional and local level. One of the issues that has led to many debates, has been many years and is still on the agenda, is the award of the right to vote in local elections since the age of 16. Here is a good example of Austria, where young people have been allowed to participate in all elections since 2007, as well as Norway, where in 2011 young people were experimentally granted the right to vote in local elections. We also need to consider this possibility in Estonia. The last important block is youth work. Unfortunately, the level of youth work in Estonia is currently uneven across the country. This is primarily due to differences in financial and, of course, human resources. In our opinion, it is important to ensure that all young people have as equal access as possible to their services, to participate in public youth centres and hobby groups, etc. And to do so, of course, as close to home as possible. One measure could certainly be to put in place a long-spoken round of money here, so that, above all, young people who are at risk of poverty can have better access to education of interest. An individual approach to all young people, whether in public youth centres, interest groups or other organisations, is of the utmost importance. Greater use of ICT opportunities to better integrate and integrate our young people is also important. Greater attention should be paid to the inclusion of young people with special needs. We have places where people in wheelchairs, for example, or people with other special needs, can't access. This too must be looked at critically. Cooperation between public youth centres, hobbies and local authorities is extremely important in order to exchange experiences and receive new information. International cooperation is also essential for the exchange of experience. We need to look at what other countries have done and what we can do better ourselves. Training young workers is also essential. In recent years, training opportunities have improved and competence has increased, for example, the University of Tallinn is planning to introduce master's studies in addition to diploma studies and provide further education. Financial stability and infrastructure development are of course important in the field of youth work. Here we will be helped by the European Union's action in 2014. It is good to note that the contribution of local authorities to youth work has increased considerably. We have 221 local authorities spending on youth work. To sum it up. The problems listed need to be addressed urgently and the proposals made are considered. If the proposals are reasonable, they must also be implemented quickly, and this must take place in close cooperation between the state, local authorities, youth organisations and families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U6	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I agree with your statement that youth unemployment is a major problem in the European Union and also in Estonia. However, I would like you to confirm that in Estonia youth unemployment is much lower than the European Union average. How much unemployment among Estonian young people in the European Union is there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U8	Thank you. That's a good question. Indeed, Estonia is in a good position compared to the European Union average. In Europe, this problem is much more serious than we have here. For example, if we look at the ratings or indicators of youth unemployment below 25 years of age, according to Eurostat, the EU average was 22.8% this March. In Estonia, this figure was 15.7%, and with it we are going to be the fifth place in the European Union. So we are in a very good position compared to the other 27 countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U9	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U10	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am asking about a measure such as 'My first job', which, according to the press, started to be implemented last year and which supports the employer in recruiting young people up to 29 years of work experience with partial reimbursement of salary and training costs. This measure is supported by the European Social Fund. Can you say anything specific about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U11	What exactly do you want to know? This is one of the measures that will help our young people to enter the labour market. As I mentioned, we still have a number of these measures, but this is one of the most popular. I think this is very welcome. The more we offer opportunities to bring young people better into the labour market, the better, whether it be social measures or entrepreneurship-enhancing measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U12	Thank you. Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U13	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to take part in the debate in the Committee on Culture. As you know, I am concerned about the limitations of young people's employment, starting with a time limit and ending with a list of prohibited jobs. This relates in particular to the age group 15 to 17 years. At the same time, it is known that the day-to-day schooling of young people of this age together with home learning often lasts more than eight hours. Do you think that all the current restrictions are justified or that changes can be made there, and if so, will we be able to do something in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U14	Thank you. This is an important issue which I referred to in my presentation and which has also been the focus of the discussions in the Committee on Culture. Indeed, it is a fact that sometimes young people's days, when they spend their studies at school, doing homework, exercising, and other things, are longer than their parents'workdays. In my opinion, the fact is also that the opportunities for our young people to gain work habits and experience are currently somewhat inflexible. As I pointed out in my report, for example, working time is one thing that we can make more flexible. The European side has, in fact, set slightly looser criteria here. We also now have a fairly comprehensive list of prohibited and permitted areas of work. I see that changes can also be made in this respect, making work more flexible for young people. So there are possibilities, and we're considering them. Together with my colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta, I have discussed this issue, possible amendments and what needs to be analysed, with Minister Urmas Kruus. We will definitely go on with this issue and see what can be made more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U15	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U16	Thank you. I am a little surprised by the small number of people who want to ask, given that this is indeed a matter of national importance. The aim of the focus on youth is to help socialise young people in the broadest sense through certain national steps, including access to the labour market, leisure, self-confidence, etc. Does it not seem to you that this age limit, which is similar to that of young people, may have been placed too high? Isn't it a little weird that in some cases we treat a 26-year-old or even a 29-year-old person as someone who has to be pampered and artificially assisted in some way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U17	Thank you. Isn't that the concept of youth, yes, different interpretations. I think I'm young, too, even though I'm, unfortunately, 32 years old. But when speaking about young people, the keywords that pass through do not necessarily have to be that young people need to be pampered or assisted in any way. Indeed, the Youth Work Act sets this age limit at 26 years. Whether it's a year here or there, I don't think it's very important. But if that's the deal, fine. The main thing is that young people are active. And it is precisely those young people who are unable or need to be pushed, such as NEETs who do not work, study or participate in training, that should be helped. Whether he is 27 years old, 25 years old or 26 years old, he is still a problem for society if he does not work, study or participate in training. He'll have to be dealt with anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U18	Thank you. I think we all think we're young. Andrus Ansip, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think I'm young too. I support the establishment of a Youth Guarantee in Estonia, but I cannot fail to ask a spiteful question. What is the link between youth unemployment and overall unemployment, the correlation between the European Union as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U20	Thank you. If we look at the overall unemployment in the European Union, Estonia is again in a relatively normal position compared to the other European Union countries, as I see it, with its 10th place on the ground. While the average unemployment rate in the European Union was 10.5% in March this year according to Eurostat, it is 7.8% in Estonia. We are promoted by old democracies such as Austria, Luxembourg, Denmark, etc. I would not say that the Estonian figure, compared to other European countries, would somehow be bad. Rather, we can set an example for Europe with our flexibility. When we are talking about youth unemployment in Estonia in 2010 versus unemployment now, when it has come down from 33% to nearly half, I think we could set an example for the old Europe and other European countries with our measures and flexibility to bring young people back to the labour market. We can certainly share our experience here with other European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U21	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! My colleague Paul-Eerik asked about the upper limit of youth. My question concerns the 'lower limit'. From time to time, politicians have been discussing bringing the age limit for participating in municipal elections and also becoming elected to 16 years. What do you think of this, and have you discussed it in the Committee on Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U23	Thank you. As I mentioned in my presentation, this issue has been repeatedly highlighted both in the discussions of the Committee on Culture and in various other debates, where I myself have participated over the years. I know that next week there will also be a major interparty debate on this topic at Tallinn University. My personal view is that young people from the age of 16 could certainly be given the opportunity to vote in local elections. This is in favour of successful practice, for example, in Austria, as I mentioned, where, as early as 2007, all elections were elected from the age of 16. This was also started in 2012 in Norway. I do see that giving young people the opportunity to participate in society by being able to vote in local elections is very important, because at local level there are issues that are very clearly affecting young people. If I recall myself in high school seniors, where we were doing things for the construction of a skateboard park in Haapsalu, then I would certainly have liked to have supported this council candidate in local elections when I was 17 years old, for example, who would have allowed the skateboard park to be established. Since I didn't have that chance at the time, I promised it myself when I was 18. But in general, yes, I am certainly in favour of young people being able to vote in local elections by the age of 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U24	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this review. My question is based on the finding that there are still young people in every place in Estonia. In order to activate young people, call for more cooperation in the community and among themselves, it is certainly very important in youth work. Here, both the state and local governments have their own tasks. The report also stated that the level of youth work is uneven across Estonia. When preparing this important issue, did these keywords reveal how to approximate this level more or less?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U26	Thank you. Indeed, this level varies relatively across the country, mainly due to differences in financial opportunities and differences in human competence. We don't have competent people everywhere. It is true that there are 221 local governments in Estonia, as I mentioned, who contribute to youth work. This is, in my opinion, a very good indicator and it is very good to move on from this basis. Certainly also in those municipalities where there is not yet a public youth centre or any kind of circle of interest, the creation of such centres should be considered. Or local governments should cooperate more closely so that young people can, for example, go to a neighbouring municipality if the distance is not too long. Exchange of experience and cooperation are two important keywords here. Of course, the state has also increased funding from year to year, for example to open youth centres, various youth organisations, in order to make young people more active. This has been a national priority for years, and it will certainly continue to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U27	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U28	Thank you. If you look at the figures, youth unemployment is directly linked to other unemployment. In those countries where youth unemployment is high, overall unemployment is also high. My question is this: is it right to address these problems separately, because young people have their strengths and older ones have their own? The collection may be better able to look at these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U29	Thank you. That is certainly the case. The measures of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund are also aimed at solving unemployment as a whole, young unemployed people and some parents are not classified in a very specific way. Although we are all young, as has already been said. These measures are aimed at reducing overall unemployment and should be 'universal'. Of course, all the unemployed are also very individualised, i.e. looking on a case-by-case basis at how the individual can best be helped. Similarly, EAS entrepreneurship measures are aimed at everyone, whether you are young or a little older, whether you are able to apply for start-up support, growth support, support for your start-up, training and whatever else. So, to sum up, yes, this subject needs to be viewed in a complex, one as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U30	Thank you. Please, Meelis Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U31	Thank you. Dear colleague, thank you for raising very important questions. In order to succeed in life, it is important, after learning well, that young people get a low - working habit from the ground so that they grow in initiative. I think it is particularly important that they be entrepreneurial. What do you think we should do to have many more enterprising young people who will be able to give themselves a job in the future and perhaps create jobs for others?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U32	Thank you. Indeed, it is very important that young people begin to develop entrepreneurship, creativity, courage, will to learn, will to do something, and also a sense of responsibility for what is being done at the earliest possible age. As I mentioned in my presentation, very important skills are provided by entrepreneurial learning, which I consider to have been quite successful at upper secondary school. I have also studied in the economics class according to this programme, and I think it is a very good experience to get a picture of what entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship I stress about the different meanings of these two concepts, what it means to start a business, to create a business model, etc. The development of entrepreneurship education is certainly extremely important, and I am pleased if we are able to take the entrepreneurship programme to basic schools as well, so that young people at the earliest possible age are actually exposed to what entrepreneurship is and what is an active and courageous start-up. So what you're exposed to from an early age, the better. I also mentioned that, in addition to higher education and vocational schools, the curricula of primary schools and upper secondary schools could also focus on a more practical output, considering the integration of additional traineeships. This is definitely an opportunity. As I said, the business network is 'Dreams of Life!' ' I think it's a very good initiative, because entrepreneurs themselves are trying to find partner companies for schools, they go to schools to talk, they make trips for students to companies. It all shapes a young person's worldview, evaluations, and opinions. If he sees a real entrepreneur in front of the class who has built a large company with his hands, sweat and tears, it will certainly inspire him. I am very much in favour of the continuation of similar programmes and should be further encouraged. There are a number of measures and I believe that the situation is good in Estonia now, but it is always possible to get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U33	We have time for a short question and a short answer. Please, Tatiana Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, and the waitress. My concern is still young people's physical abilities and physical development. I see that school programs are very long, say, school days are very long and physical education classes are one or two per week. In my opinion, this is very little for the development of a young organism.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U35	I couldn't agree more. As President of the Estonian School Sports Association, I can say that adding one physical education class to the curriculum is a clear priority in the school sports union. So, of course, I support this idea. For our part, we are trying to create opportunities for making even more effective use of the little time young people now have in their physical education class. For example, we have created an interactive study program, you can watch on the Internet in the YouTube environment or on the schoolport website at schoolport.ee to see how to do some particular thing about stretching exercise, tossing, jumps, pushes, to do the right thing. Once you learn the theoretical base at home, it will be much easier for you to use your physical education class for real sports. This is one of the measures with which we have tried to improve the situation. But, yes, of course, you should consider adding one physical education class.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U36	Thank you very much. With this, Lauri Swan's question time has been exhausted. Thank you very much, Lauri Luik. Next, please speak to Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U37	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I hope to stay within the time frame, although there is quite a lot to say. First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu Committee on Culture for organising a hearing dedicated to youth policy and youth work and raising this topic as a matter of national importance. As Lauri Luik has already said, we now have 22% of the youth population, which means 290000 Estonian residents belong to the 7 to 26 age group. The central issue of youth policy is how society sees it at 22%, whether it is a resource for us, a driving force, or whether we see it as more of a problem and a threat. Moreover, the second part of this question is how this 22%, or the same youth, interacts more widely with society, what their expectations are, and how they see their involvement in society. Youth is a concept whose definition is usually based on biological age, which varies from one country to another, ranging from 0 to 35 years of age. So Lauri Luik and I would also qualify as young people in some other countries, but in Estonia it has been decided to treat the age group 7 to 26 as young people. Besides biological age, young people, as well as this age group, are characterised by a number of characteristics that make it a social group with special status and specific opportunities. I'll mention some of the more important ones. First of all, youth is the time of various transitions from education to working life, the transition from economic dependence to independent, autonomous life, the transition from parents' home and family to family and life. In many ways, this transit zone can be described as a movement between uncertainty and confidence. Trends in modern society have led to the individuality of these transitions, as well as instability, an old-fashioned pattern of life, family, school, work and independent life, have been replaced by a move-on between education, employment, unemployment, economic dependence and independence. It's called a jojo effect. The transition periods in young people's lives today have clearly increased and become more difficult than in previous generations. Success in these transitions is very important for young people's future opportunities. Years of research have confirmed one fact: those who find themselves in difficulties at this stage of life are at risk of being in a social group throughout their lives, which can be called social exclusion. That is why we need a systemic approach to youth policy. Another important factor that characterises young people is that the status, rights and voice of young people are weaker than those of other age groups in society and that young people have significantly fewer opportunities to influence their life situation. It is also understandable when we think that young people under the age of 18 are minors, so it is more difficult for them to influence how their lives are organized, purely on a formal basis. In today's society, we see an increasing dependence on the financial support of parents. Difficulties in acquiring independent residence are limited, employment opportunities and active citizenship are limited. There are different and unequal conditions in young people's lives, which mostly depend on conditions, as I said, which young people themselves cannot or cannot control. At the same time, however, we expect young people to have the same capacity as other age groups to cope successfully with problems and competition, for example in the labour market. A large number of young people, of course, are able to cope and gain valuable life experiences, but unfortunately, the established social organisation is being re-produced, and those who come from more complicated conditions than those who fail to take on individual responsibility remain sidelined, which deepens social stratification. As a third specific feature, I would point out that young people face disproportionate difficulties in the labour market, as has been said here today. A few years ago, in the context of the labour market, young people were defined in a pan-European analysis as the segment of the European population, which employs the highest percentage of jobs requiring low qualifications and low pay. The employment situation of young people in Europe has generally only deteriorated since then, and what it means to be a risk group in terms of the labour market has become much more obvious. Young people are the first and the most painfully affected by all the changes. Statistics show that unemployment among young people is twice as high as the average in the population. Young people have a kind of closed loop where prior work experience is needed to enter the labour market, which cannot be obtained without entering the labour market. In other words, from this point of view, the challenge for a sadly large number of young people is actually the commitment to overcoming difficulties. And so, in many European countries, the generation of young people whose hope of living better or even the same as their parents has been able to do so may not come true for many. However, when considering the definition and status of young people in society, there must be no excessive generalisation. Despite global trends, there are significant differences in the situation of young people. For example, the widespread perception that we are an ageing society in many European countries does not reflect the situation in many Asian countries. The real situation and needs of young people in Europe also vary considerably from country to country as well. In Estonia, the age of 7 to 26 is certainly not a homogeneous group either. Age, gender, nationality, culture, state of health, place of residence and socio-economic situation are an open list of the aspects that lead to differences in the life that young people live in Estonia and the opportunities that open up to them. The share of young people in the population continues to decline in Estonia. Ten years ago, we had nearly 70,000 more people in this age group than we do today, with 26% of the population, with 22% today. According to Statistics Estonia's forecast, the share of young people in the total population will continue to decline until 2022, when it will gradually grow again. It grows until 2039 and then begins to fall again. Given the changing situation of young people over the years, particular attention is required by the negative trends that have been highlighted in the past: increasing youth emigration, high unemployment of 15 to 19 years of age, high numbers of young people not in education or employment, high relative poverty rates, problematic health behaviour, especially for young men. The focus on these trends is primarily on the causes of their emergence, the prevention of potential consequences and the reduction of undesirable effects. It is also necessary to pay attention to the continuation of positive trends. Looking at the results of the international comparative study PISA 2012, in addition to the subject-based results, the positive fact that Estonia has a socio-economic background less than the average of 65 countries participating in the survey has an impact on learning outcomes. The results of the PISA test are among the best among a third of young people from the worst socio-economic conditions. However, what remains outside the school continues to have a great impact on the economic opportunities of the municipality and the parents. We have too many young people who leave school very early and do not continue their studies. About 10% of their studies either complete basic education or do not even complete it. Often low or non-existent work experience also leads to a situation where young people find it very difficult to enter and cope with the labour market. Labour market problems and unemployment at a young age, especially long-term unemployment, are experiences that often leave a scar for life and lead to mobility from one precarious job to another. It also aggravates social problems. Estonia has contributed and continues to contribute to the quality of education, to the well-being of parents and children and to the development of a sustainable economy, which must also take into account the problems of the youth sector. Despite the fact that hopes for a good future are very important for a young person, the choice of whether a young person connects his or her future to the community and country often depends on his or her life experience. Young people are not only the future, as is often said, they are present, or members of society, even when they are young. Whether a young person is listened to at home, at school and in the community, whether he or she feels connected with his or her peers and whether their collective engagements are meaningful in the community depends on young people's sense of belonging and perception of involvement, which helps to avoid the need and desire to express themselves radically and destructively or to leave the country. The subject of today's debate is how to improve the situation and opportunities of young people through informed youth policies and high-quality youth work. Opportunities to support the diversity of young people's development, address the causes of problems and provide solutions in the event of difficulties have flourished in recent years. The development of youth policy worldwide has been strong over the last decade, and the need for its development has been confirmed in a number of EU policy guidelines. Several of the countries that set an example for Estonia have renewed their youth policy. In the strategy approved in 2006, Estonia set itself the goal of developing coordinated and purposeful action in different areas, i.e. creating a horizontal youth policy based on the real needs and challenges of the young person. The overall indicator of youth policy is the situation and quality of life of the young person in Estonia, the basis for measuring and evaluating which has been developed during this strategy period. For example, a system for monitoring the life situation of young people has been set up, bringing together indicators and data on various areas related to the situation of young people, which have been covered so far by different databases. The database is actively used and also referred to by other bodies that are in contact with target groups of young people. Youth work has seen an increase in the number of structures created for young people and can thus be more involved. The number of youth work structures increased dramatically during the strategy period ending. The number of hobby schools doubled between 2006 and 2013, compared to 275 in 2006, now 562. The number of open youth centres increased by a third, from 145 to 237. The number of youth councils increased from 14 in 2006 to 81 in 2013. As a logical continuation of the increase in the number of structures, the number of young people involved in youth work increased. For example, 48000 young people took part in the work of hobby schools in 2006 and 77000 in that academic year. Against the background of these growth figures, it is important to recall that the number of young people fell from 349000 to 290000 during the same period, so, in proportion, there are now more participants in youth work than ever before. The main level of organisation of youth work, both in terms of responsibilities and responsibilities, and in terms of the scope of their activities and the planning of financial resources, is the local government, i.e. the local council, the municipality or city government and its institutions. The organisation of youth work in municipalities is governed by the Youth Work Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. This model of youth work is based on an important principle that youth work must be as close to young people as possible and take full account of the real circumstances of a particular municipality. The surge in youth work structures and youth councils described above shows the continued interest of local authorities and the need to invest in youth work. In describing the development of the youth field backwards, significant progress has to be recognised, which has mainly been achieved by local government actors and umbrella associations. The Estonian Youth Association, the Estonian Open Youth Centres Association, associations of youth workers and interest leaders, Archimedes Foundation, the European Youth Office and the Estonian Youth Work Centre have been strong partners and I consider it important to highlight their contribution here. Against this background, we can go to the future. Last December, the Government of the Republic approved the development plan for the youth field for the period 2014 to 2020. This is the third strategic planning document in this area, the first one drawn up in 2001. The difference between the current development plan and the past is that it focuses on objectives and measures that help to achieve a positive change in the most important challenges. This means that the new development plan is much more focused than before. The development plan has been developed on the basis of the current principle of Estonian youth policy. This means that, firstly, the young person as a whole must be considered, which means that it is necessary to look at the whole life situation of young people and the factors affecting them in order to implement genuinely effective actions and measures, and not to remain within the administrative framework of a single institution or sector. Secondly, we must involve young people themselves. Thirdly, there is a need to achieve synergies, i.e. to strive for the greatest common impact through the involvement of different sectors and the use of diverse knowledge. The development plan sets the main objective of a society in which every young person has broad opportunities for development and self-realization, which in turn supports the development of a coherent and creative society. The implementation of the development plan is focused on four sub-objectives. Let me briefly consider each of them. The first sub-objective is to create more opportunities and opportunities for young people to unlock their creative and development potential. It is often through youth work that the young person in Estonia is able to discover his interest and creativity and learn an informed area of interest. Youth associations, youth centres and hobbies offer many opportunities to acquire such valuable social competences on the labour market. Voluntary activities, such as youth projects, which require active self-initiatives, make a valuable contribution to the development of a wide range of knowledge and skills, in addition to often personal success experience and also initial work experience. The youth sector has the capacity and opportunity to further influence the opening up and development of young people's potential compared to the current one. Professional capacity of the sector's staff, access to institutions and organisations and an appropriate resource base are necessary to develop new methods and thus involve more young people. Our goal is for 60% of young people to participate permanently in youth work by 2020. Based on the programme of the Government Union, the Ministry of Education and Research is launching a process aimed at developing a concept document to support the participation of young people in various forms of action, including interest education and activities. On the basis of what has long been referred to as "circulation money," or rather, a concept is being developed to support youth work and recreational education for different target groups. The second sub-target of the development plan is a situation where young people would be less risky to be excluded. The ability of a young person to create a life for himself that he has reason to value is largely based on whether he actually has opportunities for personal capacity and really available development. It is therefore necessary to consistently pay attention to the obstacles young people are facing and to make greater use of the opportunities offered by youth work and youth policies to remove them. In order to prevent and solve youth labour market problems, we will implement an action plan in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is linked to the achievement of the objectives of the European Union Youth Guarantee in Estonia. The idea of the Youth Guarantee is that every young person can continue education or find a job after leaving school. The third sub-objective of the development plan is to support more young people's participation in decision-making. I mentioned earlier that the number of participating collections in Estonia has multiplied in recent years, but the more versatile meaning of participation is also more important than the active involvement in the life of the community and caringness is still developing in Estonia. Fourthly, the implementation of the development plan will continue to support the quality assessment of youth work and the systematic development of youth research and the provision of training opportunities for the workforce in the field for the more effective functioning of the youth field. High-quality youth can be more supportive to young people, but must also be more recognised as an equal player in providing solutions to the challenges facing society. In addition to these four objectives, it is important to follow cross-cutting principles such as taking into account the diversity of young people, developing health values, supporting the integration of society, early detection and achieving cross-sectoral synergies in the implementation of the Youth Agenda. Although the existence of a development plan is very important, it is only a document. Returning to the beginning of his speech, the issue of who young people are for society and what young people expect from society is at the heart of youth development. In Estonia, we have decided to pursue a society whose political and economic energy is aimed at supporting young people so that everyone can have the best opportunity to fully realise their potential. This requires not only the development of the youth field, but also meaningful and consistent cooperation with other areas. There is already a good basis for this on the basis of progress to date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U38	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You had doubts that a national alcohol policy could have no effect on young people's alcohol consumption. But suddenly, though, the state has some kind of measures? In some countries, alcohol purchases are every higher than in Estonia, for example 21 years of age. What do you think, personally, of every lift?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U39	I think that alcohol policy certainly has its influence, and the availability of ex-alcohol is also one aspect. However, I do not believe that the additional restrictions formally imposed at the level of the law, which relate precisely to age limits, could significantly change the situation. There are likely to be much more effective measures, such as those related to alcohol advertising. Personally, I always thought that it should be much more regulated in Estonia. Raising the age limit, I guess, isn't going to work alone. We have this limit of 18 years of age, but as Jaak Allik pointed out, it has not prevented children in the ninth grade from getting alcohol. So I think it is not an effective instrument in itself, but there are other options that are much more effective. But I come back once again to the fact that alcohol consumption, in my opinion, depends primarily on the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U40	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U41	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It has been pointed out on several occasions that young people are not getting a job or enough practice during their summer holidays. In fact, it would be in the interest of all of us, especially young people themselves, to have an internship experience before they have completed all the schools and go to the first job. I have been in contact with quite a number of young people who have worked abroad during summer holidays, not only in Europe but also in America, and their criticism of our country is that we have, in our laws, as we have been overreacting, over-regulating youth issues and imposing harsh conditions. Not to mention that they could have some benefits. As a representative of the government, you have probably also been in contact with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance on this issue. Are you ready to ease these things and meet young people? If we make any proposals in the Commission, can we move in the direction that young people want?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U42	Thank you. Thank you very much for your very good presentation. I'm asking about lowering the age limit, too, but a little bit different. You have repeatedly emphasised in your very good youth policy platform that young people's experience in participating is too few, but does not offer concrete ways to increase them. Would you be willing to support a reduction in age in student self-government, i.e. the introduction of compulsory student self-government in primary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U43	In this regard, too, we have not formed an opinion. However, we have very good cooperation with the Association of Estonian Student Unions and when this topic comes up, we are certainly ready to support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U44	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for a very good presentation. It is a good thing that there is a youth representative in front of the Riigikogu today, not only are we talking about young people and how to organise their lives. As far as the report we have just heard is concerned, of course, both your personal contribution and your entire umbrella organisation's contribution to the development plan has been very great. You've identified some problems. One of them has been the survival of the organisation, or its funding. Unfortunately, funding has been quite as large as we once agreed for quite a number of years. There are different reasons why this sum has not increased. What directions do you propose for restructuring funding, and how much would the role of roofs remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U46	As I said, we are currently in the process of analysing the financial capacity of Estonian youth associations. As a result, in cooperation with the other parties, we will make proposals on how to change the financing model. Indeed, at present, this is a major problem for the survival of organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U47	Thank you. Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I, too, am convinced that young people are highly responsible and, in a positive way, rather critical voters. But here's what I want to ask you. Jaak Allik spoke about the age limit for the purchase of alcohol and the election in one key. Which do you think would be more useful to allow a young person to take part in elections or buy alcohol? What's your recommendation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U49	Definitely participate in the election.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U50	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U51	Thank you. What other policy orientations should, in the opinion of the ENL, be redesigned in youth policy and policy at all? You mentioned formal education, apprenticeships, socially excluded young people, but what other needs do you see? Of course, the reduction in the selection age is only one measure in order to bring more young people into the picture. What are the other problems you would like to highlight? This is a good way to talk about it, you have 14 minutes and 30 seconds left. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U52	I believe that one way to put the problems of young people more into perspective is to step up the activities of participatory bodies and to accept them in local governments. You might ask them for advice and accept the advice they offer, for they are most closely involved in what young people go through every day, what they encounter every day. For this purpose, participatory bodies have been set up to bring concerns, as well as positive observations, to decision-makers. The most comprehensive way to tackle young people's issues is to step up and take account of participatory bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U53	Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you, Reet Sillavee! We're opening negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Kalle Palling Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Dear young people and colleagues, Dealing with youth is a specific priority for the Reform Party. I will just bring out a few keywords of what has already been heard in this Chamber today, and I will repeat them in this key, which is extremely important to the Reform Party. I will start with education policy and, above all, I want to underline the importance of entrepreneurship education. 'From young to entrepreneur! ' could be a priority for all young people. Getting an entrepreneurial experience at the earliest possible age certainly provides a good basis for not only 2% of Estonian residents in the future to have the experience of making their own money. In addition, I propose that entrepreneurship education should also be included in the comprehensive school programme in the future. I bring positive examples of cooperation with entrepreneurs already taking place in a large number of basic schools and upper secondary schools, such as the Back to School programme. But it could certainly be much more frequent and the presence of entrepreneurs in school economics classes could be a rule rather than an exception. Learning programmes should be reviewed and modified in such a way that the development of entrepreneurship, creativity and logical thinking is a priority in all kinds of learning programmes. I would also like to point out that it is particularly important for us that IB education, i.e. international education, develops at an even higher level in Estonia than it has been in place in these few years. As a passionate sportsman, I began at a relatively late age, stressing that a healthy lifestyle is certainly of paramount importance. It has to be dealt with in early years, at school. Lauri Luik, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, suggested that an additional physical education class per week would be a very good solution. For my part, I would add that all physical activity outside of school, the development of sports opportunities must certainly be a priority. I've heard the claim that health sports are expensive. But let's look around, especially in the countryside, in recent years there have been a number of decent sports buildings, stadiums and health trails, mostly free of charge for everyone. It is a pleasure to see this, and I assure you that the development of such projects will also be one of the priorities for the next budgetary period of the European Union. Now, a little bit of collusion. Today, all the speakers have spoken about youth councils. I, too, have to say that over the last few years, I have discussed various topics in various municipalities, especially in youth councils. Certainly, in local government councils recently, young people have become more listened to and involved in decision-making. I think that those municipalities that do not yet have a youth council should certainly think about creating it. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U55	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U56	Making your voice heard is certainly vital. The Minister, the Youth Representative and also the Chairman of the Committee on Culture spoke about reducing the election age to the age of 16. The Reform Party Group, as well as the Bureau, have discussed this issue on several occasions, and I personally am, and a large part of our group considers that this is an issue that needs to be considered very seriously. I would point out that this is not an easy decision. This also requires changes to several sections of the Constitution and will certainly take time. In order to reduce the election age of local elections from 18 to 16 years of age, the two successive compositions of the Riigikogu must be in favour of amending the Constitution. The current composition of Riigikogu XII, elected in 2011, would reach a decision before the end of its mandate in March next year and the Riigikogu elected in 2015 would be able to make a decision in the same year or 2016. Following the second adoption of the Constitution, this amendment requires that, in particular, reforms in civic education provided by schools should be carried out in order to minimise the risk associated with the reduction of the selection age. The reduced elections could take effect at the earliest in the selection of local government councils in 2017. On the other hand, these local elections may be too close to allow the constitutional amendment to take effect, because it is good political practice not to change the electoral rules before the elections. We therefore come to the conclusion that 16-year-olds could only be elected at the national elections in 2021. This will lead to a seven-year period during which it will be possible to implement the changes brought about by the reduction in the election age, in particular reforms in civic education in schools. It is also a long enough time for young people to get used to this knowledge and to get acquainted with what is happening in society. This rather detailed end of the annual speech was intended for those sceptics who think that this amendment can be made very quickly. It can't go fast, our constitution just doesn't allow it. And, as has been said, in this seven years, we would certainly also raise the social awareness of those young people who today think that they are not smart enough to make a decision by then who could become members of their local government council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U57	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask Barbi Pilvre on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U58	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu, I welcome the raising of the issue of youth policy as a matter of national importance. I also consider this important as a parent; in my home too, a young person grows up. One of the key issues of youth policy, which has been discussed today, is the problem of youth employment, or youth unemployment. In Estonian identity, work has always been a central concept. You're working, and you have to paraphrase everything but the classic. For others in Estonia, the person is primarily the one who works as a doctor, journalist, entrepreneur, member of the Riigikogu. If a young person does not start working at the right time, it is safe to fear that by our mentality he will never be the right person. Young uneducated men living on land live in the back rooms of their mother's home, while female literary specialists with a master's degree do time in North Tallinn cafes. Above all, of course, this is a personal and family concern that everyone has to solve for themselves. However, in the longer term, it is a great burden for society and a specific financial concern for the state, as unemployment easily leads to a social isolation and destructive feelings about the surrounding. Speech, i.e. pohuism, aggression in virtual space or on the street, and emigration for more active young people, all of these phenomena can be linked to unemployment. As the previous speakers have already said, a few years ago, during the period of economic downturn, an idea emerged in the European Union, the political outcome of which is the creation of a "youth guarantee" scheme, or a comprehensive youth employment project. Fortunately, it has come to the conclusion that it is cheaper for a young person to pay off his first job than to compensate for his or her failure in society later. It is good that the problem has been highlighted by the so-called NEETs (not in education, employment or training) who do not work, study or participate in training. I repeat here that the purpose of the Youth Guarantee is to develop state measures to ensure that young people have a job, a continuation of education, training or an apprenticeship after leaving the education system. Fortunately, Estonia has started to deal with this. We have also launched a series of EAS measures and measures to be implemented with the help of the European Social Fund. Despite this, according to the statistics of spring 2014, 16% of young people are unemployed in Estonia. So almost 1 in 6 young people are unemployed. That's a lot. Fortunately, the situation has improved, for example, in 2010 more than a third of young people were registered as unemployed. At the same time, we know that in some European countries, such as Italy, Portugal and Greece, youth unemployment exceeds 40 and even 50%. Against this background, Estonia's situation is not at all bad. Compared to neighbouring countries, we have a good situation. At the same time, Estonian youth workers say that there are large scissors between registered unemployment and actual unemployment. For example, a young person may be inactive for a short time after school or internship has ended. There is no job, no application at all, and he counts himself unemployed. At the same time, he may face the Year of Adventure in Australia or America, but formally he is unemployed. On the other hand, it can also mean a longer stay away from working life, passive homework, and loneliness. Here begins the problems that can send a person for the rest of his life. In Estonia, the prevailing thinking is that everyone is the blacksmith of his own destiny and the person who sheds his own happiness. In this light, youth labour market measures are something completely radical. We may understand that in Italy or Spain, soft and lazy adult boys still have a mama to feed and care for, but things should be different in Estonia. We've already got knee-length running, a newspaper pack in our hands, between cars, to start a million-dollar career in ten years' time. Evidently, those in this hall have also always been good, going to turnips in the summer of school, weeding strawberries in the garden, and throwing mortars somewhere in the middle of college. We've never spent summers just hanging out in front of a TV. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U59	Thank you. On the contrary, we tend to carry an Estonian overworking culture. At the same time, today's middle-aged people who are already facing major challenges at a young age may not be well aware of the situation in which this generation of young people is present. We may not sense that the strawberry land here is largely occupied by those who represent the golden middle age, who are not going to retire yet. The public is dominated by those who were already in the '90s in politics, journalism, culture. Young people are left with spiritual or physical support, even if they have a better education, a wider circle of eyes, a wider experience from the world. Young people do not have social networks, and I am not talking about Facebook. The university years spent abroad have taken the opportunity to make the necessary contacts; they do not have contacts in the right places. Newcomers such as 28-year-old ministers are only a pleasant exception in Estonia; it is more common for us to have a 28-year-old insecure young person looking for his place. I know the educated and exemplary people in my community, who have a good and nice young person at home who does not do their educational work, even though all the prerequisites are there. Parents are in trouble because, despite the assumptions and the example of Mom and Dad, the situation seems hopeless. The lack of the Youth Guarantee is considered to be the fact that solutions may be short-term and difficult to access. For young people, solutions are inefficient. At the same time, it is pointed out, as a positive aspect, that this raises an important issue in society and that youth unemployment is clearly formulated as a separate problem. The Youth Guarantee scheme offers quick solutions and may mean short-term success, but it also creates a context for better understanding and solving the problem. By 2020, the European Union is planning to bring youth unemployment below 10%. This is an ambitious task even in the Estonian context. National youth policy is an important measure on this path, and the Socialist Group wants this issue to remain constantly in the interest of decision-makers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U60	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U61	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Liisa-Ly Pakosta Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U62	Thank you. My personal position, as well as my party's position, is supportive; it is our party's programme position. Speaking from the ministry's point of view, from a purely youth policy point of view, the greater participation of young people is certainly of value, and I think there is no reason to oppose it. However, the wider issues of electoral rights are not a matter of the administration of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U63	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When I was a young, 10th grade student, I published an article in the Youth Voice newspaper at the time, where I found that school should also be taught to drink in a cultural way. Of course, it caused a storm, but at that time there was no sexual education in the study plans. I am still of the opinion that there should not be a sphere of life that is not addressed or dealt with at school in the position of ostrich, that it is forbidden. But the forbidden fruit is sweet. What is your opinion on this question? Or should we continue to read from time to time in the newspaper, as the children in the ninth grade drink their eyes off at school nights or proms?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U64	Thank you. I believe that promoting a healthy lifestyle is certainly something that the country should deal with, and of course it should be done honestly, otherwise it will be of no use at all. At the same time, I doubt that the country has any key role to play in influencing young people's alcohol consumption. I think the first level is definitely family here. But it is probably possible to talk through youth work about what is reasonable and unreasonable, both in alcohol and in other matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U65	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U66	Thank you. I will focus on this group of young people who are really at an age of development, namely school pupils. From time to time, society has raised the question of whether our school does not have too long summer holidays, which, among other things, also brings with it a burden on how to fill young people's lives with reasonable activities, to create employment opportunities, opportunities to satisfy their interests, etc. What is your understanding of this issue? Is it possible and reasonable from this point of view, within the limits of the academic year, to dissipate a bit of this non-study worker's time? The overall length of the break could remain the same, but it would not fall at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U67	While I was in the 10th grade, I liked long breaks, of course, but basically I don't see why this system couldn't be more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U68	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U69	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The main part of youth work is, of course, left to local authorities, but unfortunately local authorities treat it very differently. Open youth centres and hobbies are not an obligation for the local government, they are an option. And I can tell you that in my opinion, only a quarter or a third of the municipalities have this opportunity for children. I'm afraid so. I ask whether there is one reason for the administrative reform that has not been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U70	Thank you. There is perhaps no reason to open the debate on administrative reform here. However, different abilities are certainly a problem, and that is what I referred to in my speech. I also referred to a possible solution that the Ministry of Education is developing. In particular, we have mapped out opportunities for youth work and recreational education in municipalities. These problems vary in Tallinn and, for example, in some smaller municipalities. These problems are very different from the major cities. We have been able to qualify them into groups and, on this basis, we will also develop by the end of the year the principles for supporting more active youth work, recreational education in these different groups, municipalities and youth groups. We are of the opinion that this support should certainly be differentiated, i.e. addressed to solving specific problems in specific municipalities. This would actually enable the state to level out the natural differences that exist between the municipalities. And the administrative reform itself could, of course, be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U71	Thank you. Please, Barbi Pilvre, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U72	Thank you. This is a very important issue. Just because there is no separate chapter here for young people with special needs does not mean that we are not taking this issue seriously. We have also talked about this with the Minister for Social Affairs, and this area is certainly extremely important for the implementation of this same development plan. The reason why this issue has not been introduced separately is because, as I have already pointed out, we have based our development plan on a comprehensive approach. We are striving to overcome these obstacles, which are different backgrounds and opportunities for young people, without specifically identifying specific risk groups, whether they relate, for example, to physical disability, ethnicity or socio-economic background. This has not been done in the development plan, but, for example, in the operational programme of the same programme, which is on the way, these specific risk groups will certainly be given more attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U73	Good kids! Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a very hopeful debate today, and as a mother, I will leave this hall much happier than I came here. Young people and children are the only serious topic for the future of Estonia, and I, like the whole Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, am pleased that this is the national issue of discussion in the Riigikogu today. We would like to thank the Ministry of Education and Research and all the other ministries and colleagues who have worked on the development plan for youth, but above all, of course, all the young people who have contributed very actively to this process. Several things that are good have already been said in the speeches today. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union are pleased that very important issues have been raised in this development plan and concrete operational programmes are coming up. We also stress, for our part, that a young person who is truly, disheartened, unworthy of feeling and acting is a very great tragedy, both personal and social. After all, the best opportunities for self-realization should be for young people. They're more capable, stronger and healthier than we are middle-aged, aren't they? We support all discussions with the Fatherland and Res Publica Union about the possibilities that can be done in Estonian society specifically in order for young people to be more trusted. In many cases, we believe that there is a solution to greater trust in young people. The reduction of the selection time, of course, needs to be discussed. Greater say to youth councils, of course! For schools, with student self-governments, the greater strength is, of course! All these issues are very important. Reviewing labour law with the aim of greater trust among young people, of course! All these issues have sounded endless here today. However, there are two sets of questions whose solutions have been less addressed. The first issue that the Youth Development Plan also has to do with gratifyingly is that every person, including, of course, young people, needs a secure relationship and the recognition of their loved ones and friends. When we look at the national curriculum of Estonian schools, we see not only a small proportion of physical education, but also a lack of family and relationship education. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that only twice in 45 minutes is dedicated to the birth of a child and the upbringing of a child throughout the 12 years? During this period, there will be no real talk about anything other than avoiding pregnancy. Let's keep looking at the bill! The proportion of graduates must, of course, increase and this target is well available in the development plan. In 2012, 10.5% of young people remained in primary education or did not even graduate from primary school. The target for 2020 is 9.5%. Professor Mati Heidmets has said of these young people: "This is a loss. It's a group of people who leave education unreasonably early. ' I bring out statistics that for every 100 men with higher education there are 250 women in Estonia who have completed higher education. The 10.5% mentioned above, too, and if we do not do anything, the 9.5% of 2020 will probably be made up mainly of young men. That means almost 1 in 5 young men. Prevention and helping young people, helping children, especially boys, must start from kindergarten and primary school. Only then will we get to that 9.5% and maybe an even better figure. The second question is a little more complicated. I fully agree with the previous speaker, Barbi Pilvre, that it is extremely important to shape work habits and a serious attitude towards work, to find the first job. Unfortunately, the Youth Development Plan has one target with a crutsky: the initial level of youth unemployment is 20.9% in 2012 and the recommended target is 10%. Sounds good. But let's look out the window! It's a beautiful day. It's almost full summer and it's gonna be a long school break. Do you know that youth unemployment is always growing in the summer? And if you do, have you wondered why? It is known that many young people work in the summer, yet youth unemployment will always increase. However, this is due to the fact that the European Union is calculating the percentages that we are talking about here today with great tragedy on the basis of the next question. Young people will be asked if you have been looking for work in the last four weeks and will be specified whether you have been following job offers ads or addressing relatives or acquaintances to find a job. And when a young person answers that yes, he has been interested that he really could take a small job during his school vacation, such as working part - time, this good young person goes on a jobless note. It is also a reminder that we are talking about 15-24-year-olds who should all be studying somewhere. Let us be honest, in fact, the higher this percentage, the more young people we have who are interested in gaining work experience and earning their own pocket money. Some, however, also agree to gain experience in volunteering. The smaller we try to push this percentage, or the more we give young people the message that any job search is from the devil and brings down Estonian statistics, the more clearly we are on the wrong path. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association stresses that the Labour Code, as well as school teaching programmes, should definitely be reviewed in terms of traineeships and entrepreneurship education, as well as in terms of work education. When we look at the statistics, we see that the unemployment fund had a 19-25 census. 123 children aged 16 to 17 years on the account until December 2011. There is also one child on the account of the unemployment fund too much. Meanwhile, 384 children were employed. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that there has been no statistics and no research on how many young people actually work, both in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole. This has been acknowledged by both the European Union and the Estonian Statistical Office. To conclude, we also need to carry out research into the work of young people and move forward with a view to supporting and encouraging young people to work to a reasonable extent and gaining work experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The previous rapporteur spoke about how he basically supported young people's right to vote when they were 16 years old, and also mentioned that this had been discussed in the Commission and perhaps also in the political party. What is your position and the position of the Ministry: will legislation do anything about it in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U75	Thank you very much. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U76	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U77	The Estonian Youth Association has not developed a position on the purchase of alcohol. As a personal opinion, it makes no sense to raise this border to the age of 21 because a young person is also able to decide on it at the age of 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U78	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U79	Thank you. I also have a question about reducing the selection time. Do you think that this threshold should be lower only in local elections or should it be in all elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U80	We have certainly been positively open to the discussions that have taken place in the Riigikogu on this subject. However, this is an area in which caution must also be exercised. How to guarantee the rights of young people and at the same time give the opportunity to work is not only a matter for the Ministry of Education and Research, but also a question for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Justice. But this debate is certainly appropriate in itself, and I hope that it will also be effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U81	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U82	Thank you. Dear Minister, I, too, support, and a large part of the Reform Party Group supports, the reduction of the electoral age to 16 years of age. Many young people themselves say that a 16-year-old young person is not yet ready to take this responsibility and make an adequate choice. What do you think about that, do you agree with that? And in order to lower the elections, would it be necessary to change something in school education programmes, perhaps at an earlier stage, to include civic education in the schedule?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U83	If the law is changed and young people can start to choose when they are 16 years old, then it certainly means that the school programme must also take this into account. I'm probably hurting a lot of people, but from conversations with a lot of young people and discussion groups on this subject, I've heard the greatest opposition to lowering the voting age from young people who have just reached the age of 18. It is in their opinion that the 16-year-olds are not yet ready to make such decisions, which they are now, of course, ready to make. As far as the organisation of local life is concerned, I think it makes every sense for young people to have a formal choice. Then their interests would be much more represented in the local community. I do not believe that local politics is so complex and incomprehensible that 16-year-olds cannot make sensible election decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U84	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U85	Thank you. Good waitress! I would like to touch on the same subject that Tatyana Jaanson asked me about, i.e. the number of physical education lessons in the curriculum. As a minister, how do you feel that this could be discussed in order to add one physical education class to the national curriculum so that our young people are more physically active?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U86	Thank you. In general, I try to treat proposals to add lessons to the curriculum conservatively. There's a lot of hours in the curriculum. I guess there's all kinds of proposals coming from different places that should just keep putting things in there. If you look at this program, there's no over-empty spots. Certainly this can also be considered in the ordinary review of subjects and curricula, but I think that, basically, the promotion of physical activity should, however, remain outside the formal education system and could be more focused on it. As I said, there are currently principles in the pipeline for public support in this area, and this could actually be a much more effective measure. Physical education is still one of the general things everyone has to do, and it doesn't always meet the interests of all young people, they can't choose what they like about physical activity. I guess we all probably remember from our physical education classes those activities that didn't really motivate us to go to that class. So perhaps it is more sensible to support the activities that young people really want to do most by contributing to non-formal education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U87	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U88	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue to develop the subject you have just talked about, i.e. sports activities outside hours. Unfortunately, this is difficult in Estonia today after it was decided to close up sports schools and switch to sports clubs. It takes a lot of money to participate in sports clubs and, unfortunately, many parents do not have it. Why didn't the Social Democrats fight to make sure that the coalition agreement included money and that children had a real chance to do something?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U89	Thank you. You've got it all wrong with what I've been saying this whole time. The Government Union agreement states that by the end of the year we will develop the principles on which state support can be shared. We have been talking about round money here for how long I do not know, but, in fact, it has not been possible to propose the principles on which it would be paid in such a way as to achieve all the objectives at the same time, i.e. to increase both diversity and availability. These options, which have been proposed so far, do not fulfil their objective precisely because of what you said earlier: namely, local authorities are in very different situations. While in some smaller places the problem is that there is not enough diversity in the education of interest, in some larger cities the problem is that there is diversity, but there is little availability. The problems are different, and they also need different solutions, it is not possible to hit everything with one tree. So now, at the end of the day, the principles on which, I hope, we will also come to the decisions to introduce this support next year will be developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U90	Thank you. Please, Maimu Berg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U91	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. How does the development plan combine the opportunities of young people and the needs of society? There has been a lot of talk here today about the need to develop creativity and entrepreneurial nerve in young people, but in fact society now may need more skilled workers. How does the development plan strive to lead young people to the specialties that we need most today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U92	The position of the ELL is that elections could be reduced in the selection of local authorities, as many youth-related issues relate to the local government level, not so much to the national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U93	Let's just say that the Youth Development Plan is certainly not a substitute for basic educational policy documents, such as a lifelong learning strategy, or basic business and labour market documents, which are done in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and elsewhere. In the development plan, we will focus first and foremost on overcoming certain obstacles to young people's success and success. The Ministry of Education will, of course, contribute to its other activities, based on the lifelong learning strategy, so that the outputs of the Estonian education system correspond to the needs of the labour market. Important reforms have already been carried out and are being carried out here, such as supporting science, precision and technology disciplines in universities. The decision to grant professional scholarships in the so-called smart specialisation disciplines has already been made. In VET, the new VET Act is subject to a study programme review in order to ensure that this compliance is increased. Entrepreneurship is also involved in the work of vocational education and training institutions, for example, at a formal level. So we will certainly work to ensure that learning outcomes meet the needs of society. But, of course, the problem still exists, including the fact that 70% of graduates go to upper secondary school, for example. If we look at labour market needs, we would certainly like to see a significantly higher percentage of the invitation to study. Unfortunately, the reputation of vocational education in Estonia continues to be low, although I think it is largely unwarranted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U94	Thank you. Please, Tatiana Jaanson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U95	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Why has so little attention been paid to young people with special needs in this development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U96	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U97	Thank you. We have time for a short question and a short answer. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U98	Thank you. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their emphasis on healthy lifestyles and sport and ask whether specific activities could also lead to physical education at school every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U99	That's what they said, although they probably offered one more hour a week. I said that in general I would try to be a little conservative on the proposals to add lessons to the study programme. If we look at how much free space there is to add substances, there isn't very much. I also said that I think it is more effective to develop non-formal physical training than the formal physical education class. I think it's a better approach. Of course, the proposed proposal may also be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U100	Thank you very much to the Minister. The time for questions is exhausted. We have another report to hear. Reet Sillavee, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Association of Youth Associations!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U101	I am pleased that the previous speakers touched on the issues that are also coming up in my speech. This clearly shows that the different parties share the same understanding of the concerns. The repetition is the mother of wisdom, so on the way! Estonia's independence was restored 22 and a half years ago. During this time, a new generation of young people born in free Estonia have grown, for whom independence and freedom are self-evident things. However, we know about Estonia's history, and this is also demonstrated by the current security situation in Europe, that this is not at all the case. Today's young people have been born in a free country and most of their conscious lives have been able to travel around the world, have a wide circle of eyes and unlimited opportunities to obtain information. At the same time, their opportunities for extracurricular learning and social participation are limited, so they do not feel like the owners of our country and their sense of citizenship is also weak. I bring out here the Estonian Youth Association's understanding of the pains and how they could be alleviated. The paradigm of formal education needs to be changed and society needs to give more value to volunteering. The Estonian formal education system is factual and does not fully meet the needs of the labour market. There is a great deal of dry book wisdom that inhibits the development of young people's creativity and practical skills. ELL cooperation partner The Estonian Student Association has formulated this problem in its educational platform as follows: 'The learning environment is overly oriented towards facts and learning, thus less explaining, justifying and understanding. ' The ENL also considers this to be a problem. We have proposed a number of solutions in our youth policy platform. The national curriculum must become more focused on the acquisition of practical skills and the volume of electives and non-electives in both primary and upper secondary schools must increase, as must the contribution to career guidance, with choices generally having to be within the competence of the student. Initiatives promoting young people's creativity and independent thinking must be supported. Our second cooperation partner, the Estonian Student Association, is of the opinion that there is a need to increase apprenticeship opportunities in higher education institutions and to make higher education more of a high quality; it is also necessary to raise students' awareness so that they are more interested in entering professional employment. Progress has been made on education reforms in recent years, but this is not enough. One way is to better combine formal and non-formal education. Schools need to pay more attention to opportunities for non-formal education, and knowledge acquired outside the school could also be taken into account when completing and entering the curriculum. Both in schools and in society at large, there is a need to enhance the value of volunteering and the experience gained in this process. Volunteering must be much more recognised. These young people need to be introduced to the public and employers could assess more the skills and experience acquired in volunteering when recruiting workers, both in Estonia and at European level. This could be based, for example, on the further development of a voluntary passport system. More support for young people's participation is needed. The Estonian state has recognised youth councils as a traditional form of participation in the development plan for the youth field 2014 to 2020. Over the years, youth councils and youth councils have developed the specifics of their work. Most youth councils operate on the basis of the basis established by the municipal or city council and as such they are reliable and necessary partners for analysing local youth issues. Unfortunately, the ENL sees that the majority of participating bodies tend to become weak, unable to stand up effectively enough for the interests of young people in the local government. We need to find root causes for this and develop solutions to be implemented through systemic development. The participation bodies of the ELL have always represented the view that the collections of participation are a separate institutional channel designed to deliver the voice of all local young people to decision-makers. The Youth Work Act also states that the youth participation body represents all the young people in the local government, after all, it has been democratically elected for a specific purpose of being an advisory body of young people working at the municipal or city council. We have worked very closely with the Youth Department of the Ministry of Education and Research and with the Estonian Youth Work Centre, to whom I thank you very much! Another important form of youth participation is youth associations, whose greatest concern is the lack of sustainability and funding. The national annual grant for youth associations, including the Estonian Youth Association, has been more or less the same for several years, although inflation has increased. Less money inevitably means fewer opportunities. In addition, annual grants are always delayed and the system discriminates against smaller youth associations. The ENL is currently conducting a study on the financial capacity of youth associations, after analysing its results, we will soon make proposals to change the funding system for youth associations. A major problem, the existence of which cripples the whole of society, but unfortunately little is said about, is the significant number of NEETs in Estonia. In fact, the concept of NEET is confusing. NEET comes from the English term not in employment, education or training, and it means young people who are excluded from society. At the same time, it also includes young people who are freelance or are volunteering, as well as those who are on maternity or parental leave. A freelancer who is active in his/her field of activity is often not in need of outside help and various programs to get a job. In general, it is clear that the definition of NEETs needs to be clarified. We also lack a clear understanding of what channels and methods can be used to reach NEETs in order to reduce their exclusion. There is certainly a need for increasing emphasis on prevention in order to reduce the risk of young people entering the NEET category. In order to reduce exclusion and effectively prevent it, a wide range of cooperation between the various parties is needed. It is a good thing that many resources are already targeted at NEETs and at risk in general. We expect this direction to continue. We also hope that the candidates of a member of the European Parliament who signed up to the platform of Estonian youth umbrella organisations for the European Parliament elections are really ready to address this issue in Brussels. It is a great pleasure to note that NEETs are also addressed under the Youth Guarantee scheme. It is a national programme that provides services for young people up to 25 years of age, which they will have the opportunity to return to school or apprenticeship or find a place or suitable job within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving school. However, under the Youth Guarantee scheme, work placements and places of education should not automatically be shared, much should depend on young people's own actions. But what do young people think about the risks and opportunities of entering the labour market, developing entrepreneurship at school and outside school and creating their own company? In autumn 2013 participation cafés were organised throughout Estonia in 15 counties, where Estonian youth discussed, among other things, unemployment problems and ways to encourage local initiatives. Regarding unemployment, the following problems were identified: Young people lack the courage to offer themselves to work, there is no professional career education in schools, formal education is too theoretical, or there is simply no work corresponding to their education at home. Young people also proposed possible solutions, such as guest lectures in schools and youth centres, which include entrepreneurs, unemployment fund specialists, etc. Schools could organise study visits to companies, work fairs and educational fairs more often, such as Road Links, and offer the opportunity to participate in student and job shelter days. Schools should certainly begin to provide proper career education. Improving young people's participation opportunities, policies aimed at them and civic education at school are steps that will lead us to an important milestone, which is to bring local government elections to the age of 16. The Estonian Youth Association has been working closely with young decision-makers, teachers and NGOs for seven years to reach this milestone. The aim of reducing the age of choice is to provide a very important practical experience of behaviour as a member of society to the youngest possible people. This is an excellent addition to upper secondary school education, since 16-year-olds are mostly ninth or tenth grade students. Several other arguments are also in favour of reducing the election age. The Estonian population is ageing. In the event of this demographic trend, it is very important to equalise the picture by increasing the number of young people entitled to vote. Today, politicians obviously serve more the interests of the elderly and their attention to this age group is likely to grow further. The reduction in the election age will lead to raising young people's problems to the focus of society and will continue to help the policy landscape to keep the demographic balance goal in mind. Many important rights and obligations for young people already arise earlier. A young person who has reached the age of 14 can be held liable for wrongdoing or crime, at the age of 15 the right to get married if the parents agree, at the age of 16 a limited right to drive can be obtained. The right to petition is also granted to a person who is at least 16 years old. Young people are mature to lower their age of choice. In 2009, an international survey of civic education was completed, which was conducted in Estonia by Anu Toots, a lecturer at Tallinn University. One of the conclusions was that the 14-year-olds already understand what is happening in society. The survey 'Civic culture of young people 10 years later' showed that the participation of young people in volunteering and local civil society has clearly increased. The activity of young people is also reflected in the 2012 data on the implementation of the objectives and the implementation plan of the Youth Work Strategy 2006-2013. According to these, the participation of young people in youth associations was 4% in 2006, compared to 7% in 2012. In 2006, 14 youth councils were active in Estonian municipalities, 85 already in 2012. In order to reduce the age of election, it is necessary to implement changes in civic education, which must become more close to life and more practical. There is certainly a need to talk more about elections, so young people will be consciously thinking more about politics, and this will ensure the justification for reducing the voting age. Giving young people the right to vote also gives them a certain responsibility for the development of their place of residence. They have the opportunity to express, by means of their vote, what they think about important municipal decisions, such as school meals and schools, public transport, the state of the streets, public space, cultural life, sport and investment. This degree of coherence increases the possibility of young people returning to their home place after their studies. Austria reduced the election age to 16 in all elections in 2007. Austrian experience shows that young people's interest in politics grew and that youth issues became the focus of social interest. The election behaviour of young people did not differ radically from the average electoral behaviour. The Association of Austrian Youth Associations analysed the first elections in the country after the reduction of the electoral period. It turned out that the participation of young people was equal to the average and that the socio-economic and educational background had an impact on election behaviour. Young people wanted to make a decision on the basis of substantive information and criticised excessive slogans, their political interests related to education, youth employment and rights. In our own Ministry of Justice's analysis in 2011, 'Download of Valiumia. The experience and legal considerations of selected foreign countries' it was found that no negative consequences have been identified in Austria and Germany in relation to the reduction of the selection age. Experience shows that youth electoral behaviour is similar to the overall electoral behaviour. Even theoretically, the triumph of extreme forces is not only applicable with the help of young people, as in any municipality of Estonia, 16 or 17 years of age make up no more than 3%. In Estonia, there are about 25,000 young people aged 16 and 17. At the same time, in the 2011 Riigikogu elections, the threshold was about 29,000 votes. The shadow election analysis carried out in 2013 found that as the campaign is not targeted at young people, their participation is also low. The conclusion of the Association of Austrian Youth Associations was the same: as for all other voters, the election behaviour of young people depends on a message addressed to a particular electoral group. Our analysis of the Ministry of Justice also shows that, according to the experience of Austria and Germany, the participation of young people in elections does not fall short of the usual electoral participation, as well as directing political campaigns to young people. On the contrary, among the 16- to 18-year-olds, election attendance was even higher than among the 18- to 24-year-olds. However, in order to take a closer look at this topic, I invite you to a conference organised by Professor Anu Toots at Tallinn University on 28 May, which will present the analysis he has made of the effects of reducing the age of active voting rights. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian Youth Association has completed one ball with its partners in the last seven years. Now, let's give it to you in the best of faith and hope that as the fruit of our joint effort, we can get this ball to the gate. Once again, in Europe, we show that Estonia is an innovative and fearless small country that understands the trends of the future and is able to use them well for the benefit of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U102	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Lauri Swan, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U103	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you very much for the beautiful overview and the description of the situation. I look at the Youth Policy Platform of the Youth Alliance and I am pleased to note that the content of one chapter is the health of young people. Just for the sake of interest: what have recently been the major ENL initiatives to make young people aware of the importance of a healthy and athletic lifestyle?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U104	Some time ago, on the initiative of one of our member organisations, we supported the banning of the sale of alcohol at a song festival. This is one of the last initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U105	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U106	Dear waitress, You were very energetic in defending the proposal to lower the elections for young people. At the same time, there has also been the idea of raising the threshold from which you can buy alcohol from a shop to the age of 21. Would you like to comment on the possible combination of these two measures? At present, the limit is 18 years of age in both cases. Do you think it's possible for a young person to have the right to choose the mayor, but there's no right to choose what to buy at the store?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Respectable young people both in the hall and in the balcony! Today we are discussing a development plan for the youth field and setting targets until 2020. Just a few years ago, we discussed the previous Youth Development Plan and then a number of quite similar issues arose. What does the development plan we are discussing today stress? This could be a set of goals for all of us; it was prepared as a result of the work of a very broad target group. Young people themselves were involved in many ways. However, it is a question of whether everyone can find their own sentences there, because in the meantime the scheme has become a formal document such as most development plans and, behind a number of complicated sentences, it is quite difficult to understand the work done by one youth association or another. But the real job was done. For example, creating greater opportunities for young people to develop creativity involves a great many young people's proposals on how to develop non-formal education, how to involve young people more outside the school, what opportunities to create for them, etc. Or, for example, reducing the impact of unequal situations, to avoid exclusion certainly involves hundreds of people, I dare say that the daily work of thousands of people, many volunteering, would be noticed, supported and brought back to society by young people who, for various reasons, have been excluded from attention. The active participation in the community is set out in several places in the development plan. Today, this has been discussed in both positive and negative terms. The labour market has just been discussed at length, and young people themselves have highlighted a number of points to which I come in my closing words. But first, I want to praise the young. In doing so, I do not want to start by being young myself and so on. It is a young politician complex that we cannot admit to ourselves that we have actually moved on one generation, the next generation has grown on top, and they think that we could give them a little more space. I just want to congratulate young people and say that there are a lot of initiatives by young people in Estonia that can serve as an example. Let's start with student companies, young inventors. We are very proud of the charity projects of young people. Throughout Europe, our good order and environmental protection projects, various forms of creative activity, have been observed. We have immensely talented winners of video and other film, theatre, poetry, literature, art, music and other creative competitions. Very often, we can say that we are proud of some or others. We have classic stars, we have songs, we have youth band competitions that involve a wide variety of genres. We have good athletes; we also have young people who will only be discovered when they reach a little higher, European or global level from the Estonian level. It was quite nice to see the headlines that you can imagine, this and this Lääne-Virumaa school have had several World Cup contestants whose achievements were not known until the first results of the World Cup came. Great guys! We have a wide range of youth initiatives regarding guides, scouts, young eagles, home daughters and all kinds of other movements that emphasize self-defense, pride in Estonia and support the feeling that it is our own country. Some of the Youth to Young projects. I would like to thank all the young people who have taken the trouble of speaking in a language that young people understand: drugs, the same alcohol issue raised by young people themselves, HIV, various other dangerous diseases, the 'older sister, older brother' project, which supports weaker families, all kinds of mentoring, as well as topics from school bullying to social exclusion. These are many of the young people's own initiatives. Someone has had some negative experience, noticed somebody's very sad situation, and as a result, the problem has been raised in the whole community and all over Estonia. I would also like to say here that the subject of young politicians is often taboo. However, I would like to commend the courage of young people to form youth associations on the basis of different world views and to try to play a part in politics at councils. It is, of course, a question of whether they are doing so in the youth council or whether they are talking about their own views that politicians can align with in order to pursue an honest policy and support tolerance and the development of life at home. As far as financing is concerned, I will say in haste that I do not see any reason why a sudden decision was made a few years ago that youth associations are not yet so mature political organisations that they could be financed. When we used to finance back then, the idea was to introduce it without distinction, whether it is political or other organisations, precisely to give young people every opportunity. The fact that the amount of money allocated to them has remained the same is one question; the other is that we certainly should not intervene politically and prescribe which projects should be preferred and how they should be implemented. When I mentioned funding, I could point out that the approach of the ENL is very correct. If we analyse the reality of the situation, we will see that real support for young people, which is very important for youth associations and their 'tops', constitutes a not very significant part of the state budget, as well as of the Ministry of Education and Research's budget. Increasing it is a fundamental decision. Just once, I remember, that's exactly how those decisions were made. Much has been said today about unemployment, school drop-out and weak support structures. However, I would like to conclude by saying that all the moments that have been highlighted today by the ENL, as a representative of the umbrella organisation and other previous speakers, lead to the conclusion that the young people's own proposals need to be listened to more. In many ways we have already done so, whether they concern unemployment, youth involvement or support for support structures. Let's listen to young people and support them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U108	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Central Party Group of Mailis Reps. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-22_U109	Thank you very much. The negotiations are over and our agenda today is exhausted. Thank you very much to all rapporteurs, questioners and preparers for the debate on a key national issue. Today's trial is over. See you next week! Closure of the sitting at 12.19 p.m.
