ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday 22 January, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 18 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U2	Let's get to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law 507 on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Any requests? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 507. Since this requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we are once again exercising control over the presence. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 507. Please take a stand and vote. 70 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U3	Today's second item is the Government of the Republic's overview of the stability subsidies granted by the European Stability Mechanism and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Stability Mechanism. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I will present to you the procedure for this item on the agenda. Firstly, the presentation by the Minister of Finance is up to ten minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu may then ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations involving representatives of the political groups speaking. Please, Minister Jürgen Ligi, I am waiting for you to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A little over a year ago, we had heated debates about the ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. One part of our agreement at the time was that the Government of the Republic reports to the Riigikogu once a year on the activities of the ESM and Estonia's role in them. The first year of operation of the ESM was fulfilled on 8 October without salutation and quietly, without the fears expressed here and in the courtroom that the billion payments threatening Estonia would have come true. First of all, I would like to remind the members of the Riigikogu of some of the figures concerning the ESM. The ESM capital of EUR 700 billion is paid-up capital of 80 billion, with Estonia's share of EUR 148.8 million. Four fifths have now been paid in, the last instalment will be paid in April 2014. Then the ESM will also achieve the maximum lending capacity of EUR 500 billion. I would point out that paid-up capital is not used to finance support programmes, which is a guarantee that ESM will issue debt in different forms. Due to the high share of paid-up capital, also in comparison with other international financial institutions, and the top-class ratings of Fitch and Moody's, short-term and long-term cash injections are favourable from the markets to cover the financial needs of ESM support programmes. Unlike EFSF guarantees, which increase our debt burden virtually, ESM-related capital payments or ESM's own payments do not do so. In 2012 and 2013, ESM has provided financial stability support to two countries: Spain and Cyprus. In Spain, the recapitalisation of the banks was supported by grants. This programme ended in December 2013 and eventually amounted to EUR 41.3 billion. We remember that the original promise was to borrow up to 100 billion. The programme's objectives have been met. The collapse of the Spanish banking system was prevented. Spanish banking regulation and supervision are now heavily reformed. The threatened banks received restructuring aid, which has also enabled the failing banks to improve their positions and contribute to the recovery of the economy. Restructuring activities in both the banking and the wider economy will continue in 2014 and now without the support of the ESM. The European Commission and the countries of the European Union will continue to closely monitor Spain's development even after the programme has ended. Support for Cyprus will be more broadly based, including support loans for bank recapitalisation, public finance restructuring and structural reforms. The ESM money is set at a total of EUR 9 billion, of which 4.6 billion have already been paid out to Cyprus. The progress of the Cyprus Programme has been assessed twice. The conclusion is that the country will soon meet its target and perhaps even exceed it. Of course, further efforts will have to be made, with the support of the programme expected by Cyprus until the end of the first quarter of 2016. In view of these two programmes, the ESM has a free resource of EUR 449.7 billion. Last year, the Riigikogu expressed its willingness to be involved in the preparation of decisions concerning the ESM. This will has been taken into account by the government. We have brought the ESM and EFSF combined loan ceiling for approval to the Riigikogu, as well as the terms and conditions of national economic policy programmes. The Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs has regularly received reviews of the implementation of the programmes as well as of the preparation of a new, yet planned support instrument, i.e. the recapitalisation of banks. Experience to date with Spain and Cyprus says that if the amendments to these programmes had been assessed by this House, this would have been an overdoing exercise. Decision-making on financial stability issues may sometimes require urgent action. I would like to thank the Riigikogu for taking this role into account and allowing the necessary operationality and flexibility. However, the real test of the procedures agreed has not yet taken place. If, in future, the ESM should be more implemented as a banking sector protection measure, the possibility of urgent incidents will be greater and your operationality will be even more critical. What is new expected in 2014? First of all, Latvia becomes part of the ESM as a member of the euro area. With Latvia's accession, our relative participation in the ESM will decrease from 0.186% to 0.1855%. In nominal terms, our participation will not change. The set of rules for the direct capitalisation of banks is becoming mature. Therefore, according to the ratification law, I will soon come to the new ESM instrument for your consent. At the moment, it seems that Cyprus will remain the only active client of the ESM for some time. Possible interventions by the ESM could be considered as a safety net for countries departing from the EFSF programme. The aid would take the form of a security loan or a preventive credit line. Ireland did not take this opportunity. These discussions are yet to be held with Portugal. The assistance of the ESM may also be considered when it is necessary to fill the capital shortfalls of banks that may occur in the analysis of banks by the European Central Bank, but only as a last resort. Compared to the ESM's long-term mission, one year is a very short time to make an assessment. However, I dare say that the ESM, in cooperation with other steps such as strengthened euro area economic governance, and the European Central Bank's measures and promises, constitute a strong safeguard against financial stability. During the last year, storm winds have been successfully repressed. We now have a means of delivering support, and we no longer need to negotiate the form and content at the same time as before, but we can focus on the content. The ESM-funded programmes have so far achieved their objective. Spain exited the programme and Cyprus, at least initially, is making good progress. The ESM is a source of last resort funding and is also amplified by the behaviour of creditor countries and problem countries. The lenders do not want to give more, if they do, only on strict terms. The countries in need do not want to ask for help either, because they are reluctant to have the conditions and the accompanying controls. Thank you for listening and I hope that good cooperation will continue. Power in parliamentary scrutiny of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U5	Thank you very much. Now it's time to ask questions. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U6	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You're giving an overview of the ESM today, which should replace the EFSF. My question is about the Greek programme. The EFSF was set up as a temporary programme and the second aid programme for Greece was intended for 2012/2014. Today, you predicted developments this year, but can it be predicted that if the support from the EFSF is not enough for Greece, will it also become an ESM customer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U7	In principle, the activities of these two funds are merged; there is little difference anymore. The Greek programme is currently going as planned. The country has probably reached.. does not yet know the precise indicator of the primary surplus, which means that it is possible to start reducing the loan burden if you wish. The country is getting better. Growth is expected. There are no special bad news or surprises in this area, although, yes, Greece is certainly the worst of the programme countries and not all the news there is good. There's another review going on. I need to update my factual knowledge based on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U8	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U9	Thank you. Mr Secretary of Finance! When we go to different regions and meet people, we often talk about the limitations of our state budget, Estonia's poverty and lack of money. The most frequent question is still the same: why must a small country like us support superpowers who have received the most generous euro support and enjoyed a more prosperous lifestyle? Why do we have to save banks in rich countries who have voluntarily taken these disastrous risks themselves? What would you say to people whose children live in one tenth of absolute poverty and relative poverty by 17%? That's the most common question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U10	Well, the answer depends on the person asking. Very much depends on the tone of the questioner. The complexity of my answer, too, depends on the questioner. With you, I speak a bit in a different language than with a simple voter from your region, because people have different understandings. I'm sure you should translate my story into a nicer language. I say that we are also saving our own economic environment, or rather not that, but above all that. We're trying to maintain our self-esteem. After all, we have not forgotten the times when Estonia received very great help in difficult circumstances With this, we have achieved very rapid development. And that time has not ended; the Estonian state is still a country that receives much more money from Europe than we pay there ourselves. This is about solidarity and dignity. If you're already wearing your feet, and you see that your ally is in trouble, you have to go together and help. Nor can it be denied that, thanks to the ESM, the European Union's economy has stabilised, which means that we have the opportunity to export and invest and the overall trust. So the granting of aid has not been unselfish. In no way would it have helped to alleviate poverty in Estonia if we had just distributed it a little. All in all, the overall prosperity of our country would be less if the crisis continued. Only targeted funding will help to eradicate poverty, but financing mechanisms for large processes are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U11	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U12	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Estonia's participation in the ESM under the Treaty is known to us in this Chamber because we ourselves ratified it. My question is, what is the share of Estonia that is currently in real use, or given to those in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U13	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U14	Thank you. As I said, the Estonian state's paid-in money is not in use at all; the ESM is operating in the credit market. What we pay is the fund's core capital. This is the trust on which the market then receives very cheap loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Finance! The rules of the European Stability Mechanism are that those who have benefited from it, just as they leave behind the supporters of the black box, and those who have not received it, keep paying. Someday the time will come when some have left, some will remain. In view of the behaviour of the Estonian state so far, it may happen that Estonia is one of the last to remain in the cash register and must support others. And if we are one, say, of the five last to stay there, are we among the five wealthiest countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U16	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U17	I'm sorry, this must be some other item you're talking about. Today we are not discussing a black box or our own economic situation, but a European stability mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U18	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of last year, Slovenia and Italy were also considered to be highly likely to become ESM customers. So far, well done, these countries have managed without aid. What is the state of these two lands now? Is the greater threat over?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U19	Thank you. No serious mention has been made of aid to Italy. There has been talk of a potential banking programme for Slovenia, but it is being rejected by the Slovenian Government or the Slovenian Finance Minister himself at each of our meetings. As I said in my speech, no country would be happy to accept such assistance. Rather, there have been problems with a few countries that have delayed the adoption of this aid for too long. One was Greece and the other was Cyprus. There is no reason to talk about Italy. There is reason to talk about Italy as a somewhat stagnated and debt-bound economy, but not as a European country that would not be able to borrow from the market. In the case of Slovenia, there is close cooperation and monitoring is ongoing, there are no indications that any programmes are coming in connection with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U20	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U21	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Recently, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Greece and Cyprus have already been mentioned, Italy and Slovenia have also been mentioned. What other countries are in line? Or 'in order' isn't really the right word, but who else can ask for this help and get some of the programs that improve their banking? That's one question. Secondly, how do you currently assess the behaviour of us and our neighbour, Finland, in practice? Was their guarantee position better than ours or other European countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U22	Like I said, there's no help programs coming up. But within the framework of the European Banking Union, basically there are agreed ways in which crisis assistance will be provided to banks in the future, and the ESM is the last choice. This is the position of Estonia I have referred to when I have been presenting our views. The ESM is the last step helper in direct capitalisation of banks. The second question was about Finland. What Finland has ever done is such a distant past that I cannot even say exactly how much of their positions are still valid at that time. Certainly their general behaviour at the negotiating table does not remind us of the platform at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U23	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, On 12 April 2013, the Eurogroup endorsed the political conditions attached to the granting of financial assistance to Cyprus and the Troika's proposal to extend the terms of the loans granted to Ireland and Portugal. In order to facilitate the full return to markets, ministers discussed the extension of the terms of the EFSF and ESM loan for an average of seven years. Who gave the representative of Estonia the mandate to vote in favour of extending the loan deadlines?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U25	Thank you. I was not able to pinpoint this piece of news, but I assume you mean the decisions that have been coordinated in the European Union Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As is known, direct recapitalisation support will be provided to banks at the request of the Member States and only on the assumption that the bank receiving the capital injection will be viable afterwards. While you just answered the question, you stopped saying that this is the last resort in line, but do you see any danger in this that the possible aid from the ESM was extended to banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U27	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U28	As I said, I have always defended this position that, as far as banks are concerned, the ESM is a senior assistant. However, the private sector comes first from owners, comes state, state responsibility, and if this does not help, then the ESM will be the case. But we are also building this stabilisation mechanism, the second pillar of the banking union. The second pillar of banking stabilisation is also before the ESM. I would not predict that in the near future, in a visible future, the ESM will need any recapitalisation of banks. Of course, it takes time to build the second pillar. In conclusion, we have rejected this opportunity by putting responsibility first and foremost on the other parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U29	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Our ESM toolbox will most likely be accompanied by an instrument for direct bank capitalisation this year. The Estonian representative needs a decision of the Riigikogu to vote in favour of this amendment. When will this bill come to the Riigikogu? I'm asking for this time to avoid the risk of you coming here, for example, 12 hours before the decision is made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U31	As soon as we get there, we'll be there soon. I'm sure there's no 12 hours here. We'll be there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U32	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U33	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Reading the report by the Government of the Republic on Estonia's participation in the European Stability Mechanism, it can be said that mostly everything is recorded in a positive undertone. That is why I have this question: are we really doing so well and there is no reason to use black at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U34	We have a lot of problems, but they're not related to the ESM. The ESM has been only useful so far. It has given the European economy a great deal of credibility and enabled the European Union as a whole to finance itself, with the exception of the individual exceptions of the countries that are in the programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U35	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U36	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As you rightly said, the storm winds over European finances have subsided for this time and confidence in the European Union's finances has recovered. I would like to congratulate you on your great contribution to the creation and deployment of the ESM, which has been very unpopular in our country, but it can be said that this is the right thing to do. The EFSF has provided loans amounting to EUR 192 billion. Does Estonia still have guarantee obligations in relation to these loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U37	First of all, thank you for the good words, but I'm sure it's not worth highlighting anyone's personal contribution here. It's been a collective job. True, the Minister of Finance has also been thrown at the Supreme Court, and with quite ridiculous arguments, can be confirmed afterwards. But you asked about EFSF. The amounts of EFSF guarantees are the same, these guarantees are valid. I should check these figures, but it is likely that Estonia has guarantees in the order of 150 million euros. But it should definitely be over-checked, just today is not on the agenda for EFSF, which is why I might be a little wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U38	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U39	Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Finance! Last December, Greece was speculated on the allocation of a third, perhaps even fourth, aid package. You said in one response that Greece is actually doing well and that the economy is already on the rise. Greece is currently the Presidency of the European Union. Could these speculations have been linked to the Presidency's costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U40	I lost what kind of speculation. That Greece needs extra money? This has been an opportunity in itself all along, and, of course, Greece's budget expenditure forecasts also take account of the Presidency's expenditure at all times. The fact that the need for extra money cannot be ruled out has been my position. The time when decisions will be made is getting closer. Perhaps more funding for the Greek programme will have to be decided this year. This does not necessarily mean extra money, it certainly does not mean a larger contribution from Estonia, but it may mean adjusting the deadlines and so on. It's been done a few times. Again, it depends on how Greece fulfils its conditions. The pressure method should be used, but the method of recognition is both available. If countries have carried out the programme with great responsibility, it is nice that they also receive some political support by saying some good news to them in the meantime, so that it can be seen as an expression of attention. It is not a good decision to extend the loan period, but the tensions in society in countries that have to reform and cut costs under external pressure are understandable. We managed to make these moves in time for our decisions, which made it easier for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U41	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Finance! At the time of the creation of the ESM, the volume of its total capital was a serious issue. Finally, it stood at EUR 700 billion, of which EUR 80 billion was paid-in capital. The ESM has now been operating for over a year. In today's context, how does this selected total capital look?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U43	I don't know if I lost a few words in the meantime. If you asked for the current situation, this capital is four-fifths of this 700 billion. I think that's what you asked. Did I answer the right question? Try to clarify the question, maybe I got the answer a little wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U44	We now have a procedure that allows everyone to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U45	Maybe someone will help with their question, so I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U46	Priit Toobal may be helping Vladimir Velman. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Priit Toobal has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U48	You can ask for two, then I'll answer twice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U49	I would like to ask about the Latvians of our southern neighbours, or rather about the Latvian state, because the euro was also introduced this year and Latvia is also joining the ESM. And it is known that members of our government like to communicate with the governments of the nearest countries, some get it better, some worse. I'm sure you've been in contact with the Latvian Minister of Finance. What are the moods of the Latvian government and the public in connection with joining the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U50	I think we're all really good at communicating. We have a very friendly relationship. It's a matter of how anyone can express themselves, I'm not thinking about myself right now when there are no neighbors. It's been a problem sometimes. But I have no reason to say that about myself. The Latvians' attitude at political level has been much more unanimous. I was beginning to get the impression that when our fights were still going on, that Latvia would never have this kind of humour around the ESM. I didn't hear the whole thing up there like we did. After all, it's embarrassing to remember what our high opinion didn't say about the ESM. The rhetoric around the ESM has been very pointless. Whatever the problems of the future, this criticism was not credible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U51	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I would go on with the Baltic friendship and the Latvian topic. Can you tell me how much Latvia is worth to pay up to the ESM? Is it bigger or smaller than Estonia's? I've had enough of an answer, bigger or smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U53	I don't know the absolute value. I know their participation will reduce ours by 0,0005%. But I don't have the absolute value at hand. I assume, however, that, given the proportion of the population in the given formula and also the size of GDP, GDP in Latvia is slightly higher than we do, it can be assumed that their share in the ESM is also slightly higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U54	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U55	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, In the case of Cyprus, at least on the basis of the press, one of the main problems has been their limited anti-money laundering mechanisms in the Code. I understand that their contributions are partly dependent on it, and I think this has also been discussed in Ecofin. Have these contributions improved over the past year and have the Greek tax receipts, i.e. the State tax collections, significantly improved over the last year in some order of magnitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U56	Thank you. The ESM and related issues are primarily the subject of the Eurogroup, but Ecofin is still concerned about this. I did not catch up on whether you asked about Greece or rather Cyprus. But when it comes to Greece, Greece's tax receipts have found persistent criticism, but they have carried out reforms and listened to advice. They've done things that were unthinkable before. The thing is, if the tax culture is out of hand, how soon will it be controlled. It's a more complicated question. Yes, their structural reforms, privatisation and tax administration have been constantly criticised, but we are looking forward to this ongoing review. News is received every day at the level of officials, I should update the data for myself to make some kind of assessment. Maybe things have improved since then. Not everything is going very well for them now, the tensions at home are very high, and we are talking about internal political barriers again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U57	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! There has already been a brief discussion of the EFSF. Here's my question. Looking at the total lending capacity of the ESM and the European Financial Stability Fund, it is EUR 700 billion, as has been mentioned today. EUR 192 billion has been granted to Ireland, Greece and Portugal from the EFSF. You will not present the state of EFSF loans separately to the Riigikogu. Perhaps you'll take a few minutes today and talk briefly about a few more countries. Greece has already been mentioned, perhaps you will also shed a little more light on the situation in Ireland and Portugal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U59	That would be very popular science. I should know more about the facts. But the big picture is that Ireland is officially out of the program, and that's great. The state of their finances is not excellent, but they have gained creditors' trust so that they borrow from the market. The Portuguese programme should officially end in May, if I remember correctly. There are a number of indicators that have greatly improved them. Of course, this directly affects the budget, but also, for example, the current account and exports and competitiveness in general. I think they're getting some loans on the market for a short time now. Once again, we need a more recent overview, which I regularly give to ELAK. I'm not prepared for this today. With regard to Cyprus, it was said that the estimates given to it were considered to be too optimistic and that the Cypriot economy would collapse completely if this offshore model were to be eliminated or folded. To date, they have exceeded expectations, which is very nice. Spain has exited the program. The problems with this economy are, of course, severe, particularly on the labour market, but on the other hand, it is good to see that one country is very constructive in its attitudes. While negotiations are under way between finance ministers, Spain takes a constructive, not reluctant, approach to many measures and programmes, building on its personal experience. I don't think there's any reason to name any more countries. Spain and Ireland have exited the programme and Greece and Cyprus remain. The situation in Greece is still the worst.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U60	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U61	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! In the normal financial world, any guarantee and guarantee is a similar obligation, which banks that have lent to me closely monitor, whether I be an entrepreneur or a private individual. The ESM will provide loans for up to 30 years and we will provide guarantees. How long-term is our longest guarantee now, and how much does it affect our country's financial balance sheet?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U62	We have paid in about.. I will now say 119 million euros by head. This is the guarantee on which the ESM operates EUR 119 million. I hope I didn't say wrong. That's our big guarantee. But we can sleep peacefully, it doesn't mean any tangible risks to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U63	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. Termination of this debate does not require a decision of the Riigikogu, so the second item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U64	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U65	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group 544. I thought that part of my report would cancel the part that was supposed to include an emotional speech about the importance of the availability and quality of jobs for the people of Estonia, our regions, municipalities and cities. This fact should be clear and understandable for everyone, at least for most of them in the Chamber, without explanation. But what is unlikely to be unambiguous is the depth of the problem. Probably one of the people in this Chamber thinks that the country is fine and that there is nothing more that can be done here. The second part thinks that there is trouble, and life can also be made better. It is probably not yet the same attitude as to whether the current situation is inevitable. One of the participants in the hall probably thinks that the processes that take place in Estonia are spontaneous and inevitable and continue regardless of what anyone does, whether it is the Government of the Republic or the Riigikogu. Poverty, emigration, urbanisation and stratification are inevitable. The second part of the hall thinks that the state in its community nature, from its highest level to each municipality and village society, can and must do the best possible to reduce and stop the effects of the listed trends. We can do something and we have to do something, and much more than we've done so far. Remember, in September, Mr Arro, the new head of the Development Fund, appeared before the Riigikogu, who, referring to the development of entrepreneurship and the activities of the EAS, said that what is being done is what is being done so far, but a little better. Colleagues, the attitude 'as so far, but a little bit better' is not working anymore and that is not enough! There must be some fundamental change in Estonia when we talk about the development of entrepreneurship and the economy, the availability of jobs and quality assurance. All political forces are talking about the need for local governments to work for jobs. How, though, can we ensure that this is really done? In the autumn of last year, the Social Democrats proposed to amend the COKS and Municipalities Act and to include the obligation of municipalities and local governments to develop the business environment as well as the corresponding allocations from the state budget. The bill didn't go through that time. The position of the Government of the Republic stated that it is necessary to develop a complex solution where practical opportunities to influence the business environment and job creation are also enshrined in sectoral laws. On that occasion, a good colleague, Priit, from this board, said that the majority of the committee shared the idea that all, including local authorities, had to deal with the topic of entrepreneurship. However, there was a difference of opinion as to whether the law should be worded in one way or another, and if it were to be substantive, precise and thorough. Now the Social Democrats have a new proposal. According to the draft, the Riigikogu should propose to the Government of the Republic to develop by 1 March 2014 a complex solution to support entrepreneurship by local governments, which includes practical opportunities to influence the business environment and create jobs and is also laid down in sectoral laws. The deadline is 1 March, which is obviously too close today, but this deadline can be changed during the Riigikogu proceedings. The Minister of Regional Affairs has dissolved a draft law on reform of the local government organisation. According to the explanatory memorandum, one of its objectives is to increase the capacity to develop local entrepreneurship and employment. The explanatory memorandum has expressed the hope that the merger of municipalities will increase their motivation to promote entrepreneurship. The draft also lists the tasks of local government, such as childcare and waste management, as they arise from COKS. However, the draft also states: in addition to the above, it is the task of the local government alone or jointly with neighbouring municipalities to develop the business environment and to ensure local employment. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that it is not the task of the local government to develop any business environment that has been laid down by law. According to the Constitution, tasks can only be assigned to the municipality by law. The merger of municipalities does not in itself increase the motivation to engage in the development of entrepreneurship. If we want the development of local entrepreneurship and employment to progress, as stated in the draft explanatory memorandum, we really need a complex solution where practical opportunities to influence the business environment and job creation are also enshrined in sectoral laws. This is the process that the Social Democrats have started now. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to launch the process of creating such a complex solution. I would ask the Riigikogu to support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U66	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U67	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! If you read the draft explanatory memorandum, it does not turn out that if this complex solution is actually being developed at one point in time, there should be a financial cover for the local government to implement it. Have you taken that into account? It is not stated in the explanatory memorandum that such a need exists. During the current Government of the Republic and the government coalition, it has often happened that tasks are given, but not money to cover them. What can we do to prevent that from happening this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U68	Thank you for your question. This draft must be viewed in complex terms, along with the previous draft. In the previous draft, which we presented last autumn, it was No 456.It was a concrete proposal to include an obligation in the COKS and Municipalities Associations Act and, at the same time, a provision that the corresponding funds should be allocated from the state budget. In this draft, we have simply formulated the matter in such a way that the Government of the Republic must develop a complex solution. And, of course, we also consider financing measures to be part of this complex solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U69	Thank you. Please ask your question, Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'm sure both of your drafts have been very good. Given your competence as a self-governing figure, you may think that you have made an estimate of the period of time after becoming a law, this bill will produce results in the employment of local governments. With this second draft, you have set a very short deadline for the government to draw up a work plan. Have you predicted when the results could come if everything worked out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U71	Really, this deadline is short. Somehow, the way it is, when you draw up a draft, the deadline you have chosen seems sufficient. We drafted this bill two months ago, and yes, now that it has reached the hall, it seems to be in a hurry. However, when setting the deadline, we have taken into account that the procedure of the bill and the deadline for the task to be given to the decision should not be very close to the elections of the Riigikogu in spring 2015. We thought that this complex solution should be completed in the first half of 2014. However, this time limit may still be discussed in the course of the procedure. When the decision comes to fruition, it is a question of divination. But if we hope that simply merging local governments will increase their motivation to develop an entrepreneurial environment, then it is likely that results will be expected in a far more distant future than if this obligation is imposed on them by law, if a complex solution has been developed with changes in sectoral laws and if appropriate funding is guaranteed. Currently, the municipality network is the best developed administrative network in Estonia. If we do not use it to promote the business environment, we will probably miss a very good opportunity to help our Estonian country forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U72	Thank you. In the meantime, I would point out that it is foreseen that a member of the Riigikogu may ask a question to both rapporteurs in the procedure of the draft decision on the proposal to the Government of the Republic. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U73	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The role of the opposition is to be the watchdog of the government and coalition. The Centre Party has made a number of concrete proposals to the government on this issue. Unfortunately, there are statistics on my desk that the Social Democrats have not given much support to these drafts. Do you really honestly believe that if you give the government a general task that does not mention specific responsibilities, they will do something? Where's that blue eye coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U74	This blue eye is likely to come from the Constitution. The Constitution provides for the Estonian state as a parliamentary state. Parliament has the opportunity, the power, the right and the duty to establish laws, to control the activities of the Government of the Republic and to entrust tasks to the Government of the Republic. If Parliament acts as a parliament, these tasks will also be fulfilled. That's what faith comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U75	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Neeme the Great! I would like to ask Priit Sibula, member of the rural committee for the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft Social Democrats last Monday, 13 January. Just as Mr Neeme the Great spoke, we were essentially debating this issue more or less already on 25 September and then on 8 October in this large Chamber as well. Since the draft was not approved at that time, the Social Democrats have made a new attempt, and this time it is a proposed proposal to develop a complex solution for the government. It was already said that the deadline was too short. That is what one Member of the Commission felt. But the truth is that the draft was handed over already at the end of last year, and in fact the Riigikogu Board decided that amendments could be tabled until 5.15 a.m. on 5 December. No amendments were received at that time. I am not going to go over the substance of the bill, Neeme has already reported what this bill is about. The Commission voted to support the adoption of the draft as a 544 decision. There were 4 and 5 members of the Commission in favour, and the Gulf ran along the coalition and opposition line. Therefore, the Commission did not support the adoption of the draft. That is all about the Commission's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U77	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress, why don't you explain to me what the Commission's argument was, why they didn't support the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U79	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U80	The members of the Commission, as I said, had several positions. One was, as it already sounded in this hall, that the deadline was too short. However, some members of the Commission do not consider it appropriate for the local authority to carry out business activities. In fact, the question was what these tasks could still be. But it's a little bit of an egg and a chicken kind of question, as if it's not supposed to be dealt with, the other way around, if it's going to be dealt with, if it's going to be in depth and what these problems are going to be. There are people, also in our committee, who think that entrepreneurship should be dealt with by entrepreneurs and that the local government should not intervene very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U81	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Commission waitress! I believe that the Government of the Republic should first deal with the employment of its own people. This is his primary task, along with entrepreneurs. If the local government can contribute, it is very good. Did the initiators of the draft bring any concrete examples to the Commission in the debate that took place on 13 January or in the debate that took place in September? For example, in my country, Viljandi, there is one municipality with fewer than 1000 inhabitants. In fact, there is already more than one municipality. How can such a small municipality develop entrepreneurship on the ground? Would you give a concrete example of what these measures would be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U82	If I remember correctly, the Commission was talking about Võrumaa. We have several people in the Commission from there. For example, Misso and Meremäe are active in entrepreneurship. They do this work more actively than the city of Võru. Different measures will be used, ranging from planning to looking for entrepreneurs to invest locally and create jobs. Very much depends on the leader of the municipality, or the mayor. I know the state of Misso's affairs a little better. It is true that when people have gone to live there, they are offered a job, they are thought of all the possibilities together, and the infra system is also designed to enable people to move. So there are opportunities already.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U83	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U84	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said there was a vote at the committee and it turned out that the members of the coalition's Riigikogu did not support the decision to make such a proposal to the Government of the Republic. At the same time, the previous speaker said that the Minister for Regional Affairs had drawn up a draft law indicating that local entrepreneurship should be developed and that every effort should be made to promote it also at local government level. Was the Commission also discussing this draft and was the Minister for Regional Affairs also invited to take part so that he could give an overview of what is meant by his statement in the draft? Or is the regional minister doing something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U85	I forgot to mention, yes, that the draft was presented in committee by the members of our committee, Kalvi Tõik and Kalev Eagle. Socialist representatives were also present, but there were no visitors at this session. What an explanation the regional minister was giving last time. At that time, this draft law on the reform of the self-government system did not exist, so we have not talked about this draft. It just went to the government coordination circle and we do not know whether or not it will receive support, and if so, in what form. Unfortunately, we have not yet had time to discuss the nuances you asked about in the Commission. But I'm sure we have that intention, and I assume we will.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U86	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U87	Thank you, esteemed performer. Experts have long made it clear that it is almost impossible to develop entrepreneurship on the outskirts of Estonia without state support. This also applies to South-East Estonia, and that is why I find Misso's example very childish. It's taken from a letter from the Võrumaa Journal, I understand. I know Misso's parish elder well, and I know the situation there. I can tell you that the situation is pretty weepy, even the head of the 'Come to Earth' project ran out of Misso Parish before New Year's Eve. So there is no point in giving such examples. Hence my question: has the IRL proposed anything in the government coalition to promote entrepreneurship in the countryside?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U88	I have to say I haven't read this reader letter, and I don't know if it was written by you or anyone else. But I've been in contact with Misso's last parish elder and the people who were there, and I can't say there was something very childish committed. I think there has been quite a reasonable development. What has the IRL done? The previous speaker mentioned that Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of IRL, has proposed a draft law on the reform of the local government organisation. This reform will be pursued as a comprehensive solution. Well, there are two options. It is somewhat understandable that an immediate and rapid response is being sought, as Neeme said, but the IRL has always tried to provide a concrete and more complex solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U89	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U90	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Listening to what you're saying, I have the impression that all the reasons why the coalition is rejecting this bill have been quite sought. The date of entry into force is really what it is now, but it can be changed. Business organisations across the country have considered it essential that the law obliges municipalities to develop and promote local entrepreneurship. Is it not really because the change requires some amount from the state budget? This money is not wanted, and maybe that is why the vote in the Commission ended with a relationship of 4: 5?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U91	I do not dare to confirm your words, but if you speak with such conviction that this bill will solve all these problems, then I will only have to reflect on why it was not realised while you were in the ministry. The IRL has always tried to plan the municipal reform in a holistic way, and we believe that it is reasonable to carry out the administrative reform in order to deal with other issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U92	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U93	Honourable waitress! The Minister of Economic Affairs has launched a sacred war against the so-called woodcutters. At the same time, the municipality sector continues to favour such inactivity and reliance on the state budget. Can you tell us why the government coalition cultivates such a selective order?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U94	I don't know why the government does that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U95	Thank you. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague, Priit! I am motivated to ask you about the subject you opened here, the administrative reform. This draft puts more support for entrepreneurship and employment on the shoulders of local governments. Does the state or municipality play a greater role in supporting entrepreneurship in implementing the administrative reform that this IRL is developing, or does the initiative remain for the entrepreneur? It is such a forward-looking issue. Maybe a comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U97	In my opinion, entrepreneurship can still be carried out primarily by the entrepreneur himself. But I understand what Kalev meant by his question of favouring certain inaction. We cannot only talk about reform of the governance system; we must also talk about changes to the tax system. The Commission discussed, and I agree with that, that the tax system must also be motivating, not demotivating, for the municipalities. A member of the Commission used the word 'jackass', which has recently become quite popular, claiming that the state is currently supporting dorky self-governments. Those who make less effort will receive greater support so that their income will come to fruition either way. However, those who make a great deal of effort are able to attract investment and create jobs in order to improve tax revenue will receive less from the state's support fund. These things are likely to have to be resolved together, otherwise there is no point in reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U98	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Let us move to negotiations, during which the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak. Please, as representative of the Central Party Group of Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U99	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have certainly taken account of the very noble aims of this draft. Unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that such a proposal has been made to the Government of the Republic, where the Government can decide for itself what it envisages as these measures so that local authorities can do better and life in Estonia will progress. In this respect, the position of the Centre Party is very clear: we, who in most of the Riigikogu have been in the Riigikogu for almost three years, no longer believe in fairy tales. The current government of the Republic of Estonia has disagreed with no opposition proposal; if possible, they have always been expelled from this Chamber. For this reason, good opposition partners, we are also running against the wind with this bill. So the only feeling left of all this is the tickling wind. A little bit I'd like to pinch my finger at you and, as we understand it, raise myself in this empty bill procedure. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U100	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U101	I mean my party. We, too, have tried to motivate the Government of the Republic with very concrete proposals, one of which has also been very clearly close to your heart, this is about restoring the personal income tax base to pre-crisis levels. We always hear that Estonia has done well, that we have a sound budget and a balanced budget. Why, then, should we not at least make this move to restore the pre-crisis level of the part of personal income tax that goes to municipalities? At the moment we dealt with this bill here, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven socialists didn't even think it was necessary to be there, not to mention that they would have dared to vote. We are talking here about the need for local governments to develop entrepreneurship and whatever. In this regard, too, the Centre Party takes a slightly different view. Rather, the local government can create social jobs linked to its own management. Now, over social jobs, we could talk about these as if they were jobs, but they are not the best solution. This is a means of helping people through life as a temporary measure. I am talking about travel attendants in Tallinn, people involved in various park cleanings, and anything that everyone together took very much to mock. But in fact, it helped thousands of people to keep working. The role of local government is rather to deal with such matters. Good Soldiers, understand that the economy is creating jobs. And now we're going to get to this more global debate. I and the Centre Party are not very in favour of direct payments, but we are of the opinion that through the taxes already in force in the country, even through social tax or whatever tax differentiation, it would be possible to ensure better conditions in the regions to create jobs in regions where labour tends to leave. For example, the idea of various industrial parks could be put into practice. Of course, it doesn't work if you're in possession, but in the county centers, for example, it's very possible to create them. This list could be continued. A little bit of infrastructure, too. When we introduced the draft law amending the Road Act so that local authorities would in any case receive a certain percentage of road maintenance money, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine Socialists were not even present, even less so that they would have voted in favour of it. Much better was done when the Centre Party introduced a draft law on labour market services and subsidies following this draft. There were only three social workers absent from the vote. How do you figure that out? For example, specifically Kalvi Kõrvi, a man who has led a rural municipality who knows how difficult it is to live near the border of Latvia, but he does not care. I don't care! Now that's sad. I would like to say that the Centre Party cannot support this initiative today for the simple reason that if we want to blow air, we will fill our lungs and blow: whoo! But nothing's gonna happen. The government must be given specific tasks. If they do not carry out these tasks, the government will have to be replaced in 2015. And I hope it doesn't result in a left turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U102	Thank you very much. Please, Kalvi as representative of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U103	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, And a good colleague, Aivar! I have a piece of paper here that says my speech, but I'm gonna put it next to it. Aivar motivated me to talk about something completely different. Dear friends, we know that in recent years 50,000 people have left Estonia, which means that the human assets of Estonia are 50,000 people smaller. It's a Võrumaa crowd. And, good Aivar, when we're talking about the garden, you came here to talk about the hole in the fence. The allocation of additional road funding to local authorities and other such measures do not directly affect whether or not people are leaving. People go away because they don't have a job on the ground. The road may be as good as it is, if there is no job, there is nothing to do, maybe the faster a person will leave the country. As a result, the social partners have made a series of proposals to motivate local authorities to create and develop jobs and entrepreneurship. The last of our initiatives - Aivar, you may be listening now - was indeed in this Chamber on 8 October when there was a procedure for a draft law of 456 aimed at writing in the Local Government Organisation Act and the Municipalities Act some points that would motivate and oblige local governments to develop entrepreneurship. What concerns us? Indeed, the government has said that the problem must be solved in a complex way, and this sacred cow is regarded as a municipal reform, including the merger of municipalities. If we look back in history, we will see that the consolidation and strengthening of local governments has certainly been mentioned for the last ten years, even more. As far as the future is concerned, yesterday, the Minister of Regional Affairs sent the draft law on the reform of the municipal regime to the Government's coordination circle. In this draft, it is a noble objective that stronger municipalities are more motivated to engage in entrepreneurship. But we do not know whether this bill on the government coordination circle will become a law, and we do not know whether in five years our municipalities will be stronger, whether they will be more motivated to engage in entrepreneurship. As a result, it is elementary that, within the limits of the local authorities' current capacity, they must be given both responsibilities and a motivational package, that is, a toolbox that they can contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and job creation. We must not wait for the outcome of the municipal reform and hope that all things will be better. Of course, with the same draft that was in this Chamber on 8 October, we also set out specific tasks and concrete measures on how to do everything, but the government felt that this would not change anything, a more complex and better solution is needed. Today we are here and say: 'Clearly, we, the legislative assembly, or Riigikogu, are giving the government a task, and this is what it is: make it a comprehensive and comprehensive solution! ' We will also set a deadline for this, not so that we will be sitting here together again in a year's time and say that thousands more people have left Estonia, some local governments are doing a lot of business work, some are not. And we're still in front of the broken trough, wondering why things haven't gotten better. I call on you all to support the Social Democratic Party's proposal to oblige our ministers to work quickly on this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-21_U104	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft decision. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 544. We are preparing for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, before the final vote, we must carry out a verification of presence, as this is a decision requiring a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu. 54 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 47 are missing. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote draft 544 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 8 against and 2 abstentions. The draft decision was therefore not sufficiently supported and has not been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is exhausted. I wish you all a beautiful day. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 11.23 a.m.
