ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U1	Hello, honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the tenth working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. For the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U2	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching 18 draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the VAT Act and the VAT Act. Secondly, the draft Tax Exchange Act. Thirdly, the draft law on creditors and intermediaries. Fourthly, the draft law on insurance business. Fifthly, the draft law amending the State Assets Act, the Defence Forces Service Act, the Land Register Act and the External Action Service Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Maris Lauri represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above five draft laws. Sixth, the adult education bill. Seventhly, the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Eighthly, the draft law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act and related amendments to other laws. Ninth, the fishing bill. In the Riigikogu, Mati Raidma, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Tenth, draft law amending the Prosecutor's Office Act and the Courts Act. Eleventh, a draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure and related amendments to other laws. The draft law amending the Prisons Act and the Penal Code. In processing the above three draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. Thirteenth, draft law amending the Law on Explosives. Fourteenth, the bill to amend the rail law. By 15th, the Act amending the Emergency Act, the Public Transport Act and the State Fees Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when dealing with the above three draft laws. Sixteenth, draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act. The Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütt represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above-mentioned bill in the Riigikogu. The draft law amending the Aliens Act and related amendments to other laws. Eighteenth, a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkur represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U3	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I and 11 other Members of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union want to hand over a draft concerning the amendment of the private school law. In the context of the judgment of the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court of 28 October 2014, in which the Supreme Court declared the failure to give legislative acts which would provide for the financing of the obligations imposed on local municipalities by § 222 of the Private School Act from the state budget, private schools are in a situation where, despite being entitled by law to receive support from the local government, they may have to apply to the courts for its actual acquisition. At the same time, the Supreme Court's decision gives the local governments the right to demand this amount out of the state budget, which may also require recourse to the court. In essence, there has been a situation in which two cases can start with support for each private school. It is not normal to see each other before a court. Therefore, we believe that the problem of financing private schools needs to be tackled urgently. Unfortunately, before the elections to the Riigikogu on 1 March 2015, the government will not be able to develop a new long-term draft law based on sufficient analysis or to give it a treatment. This has also been acknowledged by the Minister of Education. As long as a possible new solution is being developed in the Ministry, which may take a year or more, we have proposed in the draft a solution that is the easiest for both municipalities and private schools and does not change their situation and the existing right to receive support. In essence, the aim of the draft is to ensure legal certainty, particularly for private schools, to operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U5	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and of the 13 other members of the Central Party Group, I would like to make a question to Mr Kruus, Minister for Health and Labour, concerning excessive alcohol consumption. We believe that it is high time for the government to take its legs out of the belly and actually start to limit the excessive consumption of alcohol in Estonia. While the Green Paper adopted by the government has been in force for some time and has been the subject of quite a number of measures, experts estimate that the implementation of alcohol policy has not come too far. While the book outlines very important and comprehensive measures, the government sees an increase in excise duty as the only option. If any local government, such as the city of Tallinn, comes up with its proposals, then both the members of the government coalition in this Parliament and the ministers will find an opportunity to iron up and not to discuss and participate. At the same time, world practice shows that the environment of alcohol sales is constrained and measures to reduce shopping comfort are the most effective, and this is the way Tallinn has gone. Based on the fact that there is a problem, but the government has done nothing about it, we are asking the Minister a question, which contains four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U7	I have adopted 19 draft laws and one inquiry. All of them are treated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 75 members of the Riigikogu are present, 26. There is one clarification on the agenda. In particular, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed that item 7 of the agenda of Tuesday 2 December be removed from the agenda of the working week. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. With this amendment, I will put the week's agenda to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda and there are no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U8	Let's get to today's agenda. First of all, an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Urmas Reinsalu, Kaia Iva, Andrus Saare, Erki Noole, Aivar Koka, Peeter Laurson, Kadri Samson, Enn Esmaa, Vladimir Velman, Priit Toobali, Mikhail Korb and Mailis Repsi concerning the politicisation of the Defence Forces. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas answers and Urmas Reinsalu takes the floor on behalf of the heirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections are only on 1 March. Please respect each other with silence so that we can discuss the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U9	How many minutes do I have?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U10	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U11	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Prime Minister! Members of Parliament! The defence of the Estonian state must not be the object of party-political struggle. All political parties have different approaches to how to make the protection of the Estonian state better, stronger. It is certainly important, however, that the joint part of the parties is defined and that the organisation of national defence is stable. In a democratic society, there is an unmistakable principle that has sent us since the rebuilding of the Defence Forces. This is that political parties refrain from dragging the Defence Forces into day-to-day politics and calling into question the organisation of Estonian defence and military defence. Today's questioning of several members of the Riigikogu is motivated by the desire that the Prime Minister clearly distance himself from such steps and give his unambiguous assessment, which would reaffirm the above principles. According to the press, the political politician of the Reform Party, Ants Laaneots, has accused the Commander of the Defence Forces at the political meeting of the party of being a political puppet of Major General Riho Terrast IRL and has also claimed, I quote, 'the current national defence development plan is nonsense'. In this context, several other steps taken by the Reform Party politicians, which have received public criticism as attempts to get Estonian national defence into the electoral campaign, also fall into this context. On behalf of the heirs, I want to offer the Prime Minister the opportunity to give an unambiguous answer as to whether the current national defence development plan is reasonable or whether he supports Ants Laaneots' assessment of this development plan. Secondly, we ask the Prime Minister to give an assessment of the accusations made by the Commander of the Defence Forces in office, as if it were a political puppet. I hope that the Prime Minister will report on his position in response to the inquiry and distance himself from the claims quoted. As I said, it is clear that political parties have different views on defence issues, concerning concrete ideas on how to strengthen national defence. However, the unambiguous platform of Estonian political parties, especially in the current difficult security policy situation, must be that we do not drag the Defence Forces into an election campaign or into day politics, but maintain respect for the fundamentals of Estonian defence and the non-political role of the Estonian Defence Forces. I hope that the Prime Minister will provide clear and unambiguous answers to these questions, which coincide with the view of the heirs that it is not normal for the Defence Forces to be involved in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U12	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I thank the questioners for the opportunity to respond, and I believe and hope that this question is not motivated by the desire to drag the Defence Forces into a political struggle, because that would, of course, be regrettable. I'll answer your questions. Question number one: Do you share Ants Laaneots' view that the Commander of the Defence Forces, Riho Terras, is a political puppet? ' I very much appreciate the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, Major General Riho Terras, and I regard as unfounded any claims or questions that call his authority into question. The second question: 'Why does a representative of the Reform Party express such views in an election campaign at a party event in the Reform Party? ' General Ants Laaneots has explained his statements as follows: 'I have discussed with hundreds of people across Estonia plans to ensure Estonia's security even better. Although I noted in my last presentation the good work of our Ministry of Defence on the NATO route, the positive developments in the Defence League, the procurement of arms and equipment, the training of the Defence Forces units, the notes were ripped out of this debate, in which I personally see that we could be even better. ' General Laaneots' criticism was not meant against persons; he did not wish to undermine the authority of the Defence Forces or Riho Terras. At the same time, I think we shouldn't fight each other, our potential enemy is elsewhere, and we know where. Question 3: "What is your assessment of the military part of the current defence development plan? ' The Government unanimously supports the implementation of innovations in the Defence Forces, including the National Defence Development Plan approved by the Government of the Republic in January 2013 and the draft National Defence Act recently approved by the Government of the Republic. It is clear that in the case of both primary independent defence capabilities and NATO's collective defence, we will only benefit from units that have trained personnel and the equipment and weaponry required. The establishment of such units is undoubtedly supported by the National Defence Development Plan. In close cooperation with the Commander of the Defence Forces, we develop Estonian national defence in a thoughtful way, in accordance with the needs of the state and, of course, the possibilities. As a small country, we cannot develop all our military capabilities independently, but this is offset by the contribution of our allies. A good example here is, of course, NATO's air security operation. In a short time, Estonia has built a strong and combatable Defence Forces and, despite the rapidly changing security situation, Estonia has always been proactive in its threat assessments and plans to develop military capabilities. Question 4: "Do you support Ants Laaneots' assessment of the National Defence Development Plan? ' Question 5: " For what reasons does the representative of the Reform Party attack the Commander of the Defence Forces and the National Defence Development Plan? ' I will answer these two questions at once. The fact that the Retired General is critical of the points of part of the National Defence Development Plan should not be news to anyone. He has expressed his views in the past and they are based on his experience and work as former Commander of the Defence Forces. I highly appreciate freedom of expression and the multiplicity of opinions, and I expect the same from others who wish to participate in social processes. We should respect each other's views even if we do not agree with them. Question 6: Do you consider it normal for the Defence Forces to be involved in an election campaign by a representative of your party? ' Protecting the Estonian state is a common matter for all of us, and this debate must be solid and balanced. Politicians should not deal with the confrontation between Laaneots and Terras, but should focus on substantive issues. I consider it very important that we have a public debate on security issues. I noticed that in your oral speech you said that Estonian national defence must not be the object of party fighting. This can, in principle, be accepted, precisely because the word 'practical' has been used. If it is worded as either Estonia's security or national defence should be the object of an inter-party debate, then I believe it should. When we look at recent statements, not all parties agree on these issues. I read an interview in which one of the leading figures of the political party represented in Parliament, which enjoys a very high degree of popularity, said that NATO's presence is rather deplorable. I certainly do not agree with this assessment. I will be happy to debate these issues in the future with Edgar Savisaare or anyone and explain why NATO's presence is important and why it is important to ensure Estonia's security. So the subject of the discussion should definitely be defense. How to protect Estonia even better is not only the subject of discussion, but I dare say that the main topic of the next elections. However, a struggle could be avoided in all debates, which part of your argument I can undoubtedly only agree with. Thank you for the opportunity to clarify these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U14	Questions for the Prime Minister. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U15	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! As Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, I had the opportunity to debate the issues of defence with Ants Laane's head for hours and hours. Indeed, he expressed very clear frustration that the new development plan no longer had a place for them. To my question, why doesn't he make this clear to the Prime Minister as the Prime Minister's advisor, he said his hands would be short. Did the opinion of the specialists, specifically the Prime Minister's advisor Ants Laaneots, not count at all in the preparation of the new National Defence Development Plan? Perhaps it would have been wise to listen to him, because there are actually different opinions in the defence circles. Perhaps the only serious problem in Estonian defence is that of defence circles. Maybe we should go over this again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U16	Thank you. No, I don't think we should somehow cancel or re-examine existing documents. Ants Laaneots also expressed the same views when he was advisor to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, and perhaps these views were also well known to Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu. These things were discussed very thoroughly during the previous government. Both the party you belong to now and the party I belong to decided to jointly propose a solution and this solution has now become a reality. The Social Democratic Party currently in government also supports the solution proposed by the previous government. I also disagree with the fact that no experts were used to reach such a solution. I'm sure the Department of Defense officials and the Defence Forces made a very important contribution to this. Which does not mean that we must have a consensus of 100% between all of us on this issue. I don't disapprove of it as well as the former Defence Forces, the more so for the Commanders of the Defence Forces when they are no longer active troops, they have their own opinion on it and they want to explain it to society. I don't see anything deplorable about it. In my opinion, the debate on how to protect Estonia even better is necessary. Even if I do not always agree with all the views that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U17	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! Thank you very much for the very clear view that you do not agree with the radical positions of Ants Laaneots regarding the National Defence Development Plan. As regards the fact that freedom of expression is a good thing and that you respect it in every respect and that the views that also sounded from the mouth of Ants Laaneots are constructive, I still have one question to ask here. Ants Laaneots gave his assessment of the Commander of the Defence Forces in office, and you said that it is very nice to have different views, different opinions, as in the case above, as well as those concerning whether NATO troops, our allies' forces are in Estonia guaranteeing our security or not. I would not, in principle, agree that the "core choices" of Estonian national defence are at the heart of the ongoing political parliamentary debate and in the wind of attraction. On the contrary, I think we should look for a path that unites us, not confronting us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U19	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U20	Do you agree with me or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U21	Thank you. First of all, I stress my previous position. Indeed, instead of trying to rip out sentences that contradict Ants Laaneotsa and Riho Terras from the context, we should focus on content. I value both men very much, and I do not want the talk of Estonian national defence to focus on who said what and who, or whether any of these statements had failed. That's not the main question. I am, in fact, even though I do not agree with this position at all, I am very pleased that the leading politician of the Central Party, Yana Toom, stated the position of the Centre Party or, at least, its position on the presence of NATO. I think it is necessary that he said it, because then the people of Estonia will be able to find out that the Centre Party basically represents a different view of these issues. They do not see that NATO's presence in Estonia is helping to strengthen national defence. And if they say it before the elections, the Estonian people will be able to make their choice a little more transparent. I think it would have been worse if they hadn't said it. The Estonian people may choose to lead a country with a large majority, and then it turns out that it is a party that does not really support the presence of NATO troops or considers it unnecessary. In this context, I stress once again that I do not agree with Yana Toom's position at all, on the contrary, I consider it a very wrong and very short-sighted position, which is that she has said her opinion, in my opinion, open her eyes to the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U22	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the Prime Minister's previous answers were exhaustive and very reasonable, I do not want to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U24	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U25	Thank you. Prime Minister! Unlike you, who did not have any contact with national defence matters in the Riigikogu, I have been Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission. I dare tell you that the majority of national defence issues are resolved by consensus in the Riigikogu. The views differed when we opposed the war in Iraq, which did not have a UN Security Council resolution. As for the fact that you're trying to hide your misdemeanor behind so-called Yana Toom's broad back, admit that you're quoting him wrong. My question is that you, too, have now begun to politicise the objects of the Defence Forces. The week before last, you missed your response, leaving no answer to what coordination you had for filming the Ämaris political clip. You should be clear on that for today. Please give a clear answer to the Riigikogu, who agreed in writing that the Reform Party can film its political ads on the subject of the Defence Forces! Who was that named for the Defence Forces? On the other hand, was it the Prime Minister's advisor, or can you also appoint an official of the Reform Party who confused the office of the Prime Minister's office employee and the politician of the Reform Party? The simple question: who were the two parties who agreed to film the political clip?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U26	Thank you. First of all, I hope that even you will understand that the debate about Estonia's defence capabilities and the debate about what Yana Toom said is a thousand times more important than the one who agreed to make the clip. I understand that you are looking for a way to hide in a defence debate that Yana Toom said that the presence of the United States of America is not needed in Estonia. No matter what the wording he said, he made it clear. As Edgar Savisaar has made it clear that what is happening in Crimea is the free will of the people of Crimea. It is very good that they are saying it, because that is what we have a security debate about. Whether the clip coordination was agreed by an advertising office or party office is secondary in this case. As far as I know, an ad agency employee or the one involved in preparing the clip agreed to make the clip. They got permission from the Defence Forces, there was no dispute about it, the Defence Forces gave permission. True, it has been said later that it did not reach the Commander of the Defence Forces, but was given a lower level of consent. But this is not a place where we can make reproach on those who ask, and I personally certainly wouldn't reproach the Defence Forces either. The fact is that permission was sought, granted, and the fact is that the clip was sent for coordination before being broadcast, and this coordination was also obtained. That's what you can say about this thing. But once again, I'm sure you've seen a lot of important debates as Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission. Unfortunately, the situation is slightly worse today, because we do not have a consensus on very fundamental issues with Edgar Savisaar or with Yana Toom, and thus with the Centre Party, as long as the Centre Party is led by Edgar Savisaar. It is a fundamental debate about whether there were green men in Ukraine or a peaceful uprising of local residents. What was that? If you say this is a peaceful uprising of local residents, what would you say if something similar happened in Estonia? To be honest, I am terrified of your views on these issues. It is therefore a good thing that you have said them, and it is a good thing that this debate is taking place. That's a thousand times more important than the one who specifically asked for permission to make a commercial clip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U27	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U28	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I also think it is good for political parties to express their views before the elections. I am deeply concerned about the position of your partymate, Ants Laaneots, which he has stated about our borders. Unfortunately, this has happened at a time when the government department has been a Reform Party. I ask you directly whether you share the view of retired General Ants Laaneots, a member of the Reform Party, that the Russian Spetsnaz men have long practiced crossing our borders. When does Ants Laaneots contradict this statement, or what is the position of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U29	Thank you. This is not the place where a party position should be shaped. In the view of Ants Laaneots, that the construction of the Estonian border should be invested and that the border should be built properly, using the most modern technical means, I undoubtedly agree. The eastern border is now guarded by about 700 people, which is quite a lot. They do their job with their hearts and very well, but it is clear that if we properly mark down the border line and build the border, their work will also be easier. On this point, I think, the emphasis is in the right place.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U30	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U31	Thank you. Prime Minister! You repeatedly deplored the statements made by the Central Party politician, Yana Toomi, regarding the presence of NATO's allied forces in Estonia. Once again, I quote Ants Laaneots, the leading politician of the Reform Party. He said after the previous Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, considered it necessary to place NATO troops in Estonia: 'Figuratively speaking, placing U.S. units in Estonia would mean putting a red towel under the nose of a sort of bull. " Laaneots added that bringing US troops to Estonia would cause great tension and confrontation between Russia and NATO and would not bring any good to Estonia. 'In this sense, placement is probably undesirable and I am 99 percent sure that the United States will never do so. ' Such a quote from Ants Laaneots. So how do you view Ants Laaneots' position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U32	I am more than certain that in the current security situation, Ants Laaneots has reviewed this position. I know that he and I have not had any disagreements on this issue for a moment. He also agrees that the presence of NATO forces is very important, the pre-location of NATO equipment is very important, as are updated defence plans. These are the same things that we applied for and agreed at the NATO Summit. I believe that in your heart you understand that your party's views on these issues are much more similar to the views of the Reform Party than those of the Centre Party. Instead of trying to find very significant differences between the views of Ants Laaneots and Riho Terras or any one of their own, perhaps rather imprecisely quoted and somehow amplifying public statements, I think your party's interest in having a fundamental debate about whether or not the presence of NATO troops in Estonia is necessary. Or, for example, whether it is acceptable that Tallinn's city power allows school children to be photographed against the background of the occupation symbolism. I believe that you and I have quite similar views on these issues. There is no fundamental debate even between us here, which is why we are now seemingly the second on the other side of the front, in the opposition coalition. In fact, the enemy is somewhere else. There's no point in making this debate very sharp between us here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U33	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U34	Thank you. Prime Minister! I cannot agree with you in any way that there is nothing deplorable in the statements made by the former Commander of the Defence Forces when he calls the National Defence Development Plan, which we have approved, stupidity and the incumbent Commander of the Defence Forces a puppet. It is also a message to our allies, who will certainly monitor what our high-ranking politicians say and what they think about the defence of their country. However, when you answered the questions, you said that Ants Laaneots disagreed on certain issues, and I would say that on very important issues, they concern the defence districts and the location of NATO troops in Estonia. At the same time, you have chosen Ants Laaneots to speak for and develop your national defence and security plans. Please tell me how seriously we can take this! This is a somewhat schizophrenic situation. Is Ants Laaneots expressing his views or the views of the Reform Party? I am also thinking of the future elections and the electoral programme that Ants Laaneots is presently introducing in Estonia. Are these his views or the views of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U35	Thank you. These positions of the Reform Party, as described in the Estonian Security Strategy drawn up by the Reform Party, are places where there is no dispute and are supported by both Ants Laaneots and other members of the Reform Party. I would point out that the Reform Party has a lot of experienced actors in the field of defence. In addition to Ants Laaneots, Johannes Kert is also in the Reform Party, as well as the former Commander of the Defence Forces, there are two defence ministers, Margus Hanson and Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the National Defence Commission Mati Raidma, etc. These are just a few examples of military defence. All these programming documents and discussions have been born with heated debates. We were very accused of asking for an opinion, a very professional opinion, also from the people who are involved in the activities of the Defence League. I would point out that members of the Defence League, even though they wear uniforms, are the lion's share of civilians. The Defence League also includes the right number of members of the Riigikogu. So the participation of the defence allies in politics is, after all, not deplorable, but it was cast before us. We also asked them for opinions, and a security strategy has been put together on the basis of all opinions and knowledge. I would be very pleased if other parties had something to put aside. So far, this debate has been rather superficial. In fact, I would very much like to have a debate on the fundamentals and fundamental choices that have been enshrined in the security strategy. I agree with you that it will be closely monitored, for example, as politicians say about the Commander of the Defence Forces, and that is why I will repeat my first response in full. I very much appreciate the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, Major General Riho Terras, and I regard as unfounded any claims or questions that call his authority into question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U36	Lauri Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U37	Thank you. Let's try to figure out why our Prime Minister's own defence is so long. Johannes Kert, who joined your party, finds that these young men who have not completed military service are assholes. Those are his words. Every male Estonian citizen is obliged to undergo military service unless his or her health does not meet the health requirements if he or she has not completed at least a comprehensive school or is in prison. You've been an adult for 17 years. However, during that time, you have not been able to serve in the Defence Forces. In a hurry to complete officer courses alongside the Prime Minister's work, as you are now planning to do in the campaign, it is unfortunately not comparable to military service. It's the making of Potemkin, everyone understands, and it ridicules officers' courses. Why didn't you go through the military service when it was the right time and the Defence Forces were waiting for you? Even if your vintage was not invited to serve for some reason, did you not think of volunteering to serve in the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U38	Thank you for your question. I believe you remember relatively precisely our vintages and the reason why the Defence Forces were not invited back then. These were changes to the order of the Defence Forces, and it was that a number of years of young men were left uninvited. Whether it's good or bad is hard to say. At the moment, I think it is right to have the Defence Forces Service in Estonia. And I also think it is necessary that people who are not for one reason or another, this may in some cases be a healthy cause, but may also have any other reason for participating in the military service, be offered alternative ways of contributing to national defence. As one of the ideas, we have come up with courses that are free of charge for all interested people in order to create an interest in membership of the Defence League. I hope these courses are served. There must be opportunities for everyone to find their role in national defence, even more. Everyone has a role to play in protecting the Estonian state. I am now in the role of Prime Minister, but all those who have completed military service and those who have not done so have a role to play, according to their positions and personal opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U39	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U40	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Some questions ago you answered that your party's views on defence and security policy were more similar to the views of my home party than perhaps those of another party. Only a few months ago, when the Reform Party came up with its security and defence program, there was once again talk of an out-of-work wage army and the end of compulsory military service. The subject was taken off pretty quickly. The IRL has stood quite strongly for the same positions in defence and security policy for all these decades, and I think that defence costs have increased to what is now, especially thanks to us and the joint work within the government. How long will your party hold the current positions so that we can continue to share common positions in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U41	Thank you. I would really like to hope that IRL's views on national defence are more similar to those of the Reform Party than those of the Centre Party. I'm pretty sure of it. I guess you don't really question that yourself. The Reform Party supports the military service; we have made it clear. Also, in the working version of the programme, it was not the idea of losing military service, but the question was whether national defence training, if introduced into all schools, could be partially taken into account in military service or reduced in military service. This idea certainly has nothing to do with losing military service, so you're overinterpreting it. However, if you look at the working version of this programme, which has been made public under the name of the security strategy, you will also see unambiguous support for military service there, here the position of the Reform Party is very clear. IRL has also corrected its positions over time, and I see nothing wrong with that. With regard to reaching 2% of defence costs, the IRL did not support this at all from the outset. I remember these debates very well, both in the government and in Parliament, I myself was chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu when we reached that 2%. In recent years, the IRL has already supported this, but I also remember earlier debates, where the IRL did not consider this to be the most priority, then there were other issues that seemed to be important. Once again, I'm not gonna blame it. The security situation has changed now, and I am very pleased that we have a broader consensus on this issue, and it is certainly not wrong if political parties, assessing the security situation, assessing the changes, are changing their views. So once again: I believe and hope, let us say directly, I hope that IRL's views on national defence issues are similar to those of the Reform Party rather than the Centre Party, for example. I think you'll agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U42	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Today there was also an ad clip made in Ämar. Personally, I like this clip and, besides, it works very well with everyone discussing it, both the opposition and the coalition, journalists, etc. So it's a really good clip. My question is, if it's not a secret, then who's the author of this clip idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U44	Thank you for a good question. It would be nice to take all the credit, but I honestly admit I'm not the author. Such things are, as in any political party, the people who think about how to deliver the message they want to deliver most strongly and most clearly to the people. In my opinion, the most important thing in this clip is, in fact, not even the technical implementation, even though it has been said for a long time that real aircraft are flying there, which shows that this is a technically well-designed clip. But that's not the point of this clip. The main things are the emphasis, also what I say in the clip: we must make an effort to protect Estonia even better. The emphasis is that security and how to better protect and preserve your small but very sweet country is important. Try to argue with that. I hope no one's arguing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U45	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I am listening to you and I am going to honestly say that I am losing hope of getting answers to the questions we are asking you here, I mean, on the substantive side. My colleague Kadri asked you for two names. You spoke for a long time, but about a third- and fourth-rate thing that didn't even touch on the question. I have a simple question right now. My colleague Kadri asked you for two names who agreed to shoot the clip. I ask you this: did you not understand his question, or do you not want to answer his question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U47	Thank you. I understand the question. I can only name jobs. I'll be honest with you, I don't know what the name of the chief of the air force base was agreed with, but a team of a company called Kuukulgur was a connection or an agreement. I'm sure if you're specially interested, there's no big secret. This is a company that made a clip for the Reform Party, and the manager of this company said in an article, who exactly was it, who negotiated whether it was himself or his employee. I can check it out, but I think it's not really the main thing. The main thing is that this clip was cleared, authorised and sent for review before publication. These are the important facts that need to be emphasised. Exactly how the Defence Forces rulebook works, who has to be coordinated with, I believe it is best to be commented on by someone in the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U48	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U49	Ladies and gentlemen, I was forced into this chair by the Prime Minister's style. Unlike the Prime Minister who has not completed the military service in Estonia, the son of our former colleague, Yana Toom, has passed the military service of the Republic of Estonia. The Prime Minister spoke here about many defence debates held in Estonia. I have been in contact with national defence issues since the Riigikogu elections in 2007, when the party of the Prime Minister closed down the Pärnu battalion, when the party of the Prime Minister was very convinced against military service. Until last summer in July, Jürgen Ligi, Vice-President of the Reform Party, gave an interview where he has said that his attitude to military service as former Minister of Defence is critical, it is 'invisibly excessive compulsion to restrict freedom, which prevents the citizen from implementing himself in society on the basis of assumptions, not necessary in practice, because the applicants continue, it is a system-lazy, using defence resources inefficiently, because our only choice is a commitment to collective defence'. Perhaps if the Prime Minister is speaking here now, as if the Reform Party had always been consensually in favour of Estonia building up its defence capabilities, then this was not the case a few months ago. Yana Toom said the opposite in his interview: it is important to us that all people in Estonia can contribute. And his statements about NATO are certainly much softer than that of General Ants Laaneots, saying that, figuratively speaking, placing U.S. units in Estonia would mean putting a red towel under the nose of a bull, in addition to bringing US troops to Estonia would create very great tension and confrontation between Russia and NATO. Trying to squirm out of an embarrassing situation where the Reform Party has politicized the Defence Forces or is trying to politicise it using the Defence Forces' objects for its political campaign is not ethical to fall behind simply political confrontation. The attitude of the Prime Minister, his party in general, is superficial in defence matters. When he got into trouble in this chair under the questioning avalanche, he immediately began to explain that there was no point in getting the debate sharp. If, for years, we have had an approach in the Riigikogu that national defence issues are not politically heated, then the most and most ugly thing is that the desire to have another additional vote on a subject in which the Reform Party has never been credible works. So national defence issues could be above picking up day-to-day political points. To conclude my speech, I also mention that 2% of GDP on defence expenditure was already in the Centre Party's programme in 2005, when the Reform Party did not even talk about it. So the desire for points to be collected broadly undermines our Defence Forces, undermines our political debate and simply gives the impression that the Prime Minister is extremely superficial in another very important area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U50	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U51	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Prime Minister and ladies and gentlemen, I believe many of you know that national defence has been one of the most central issues of my life. That is why I was moved by the remote to come here today, perhaps a more acute discussion than the average one. That's not usually the case with enquiries. Therefore, I would also say some points of view. The first thing I would do is give the good prime minister a hand. Indeed, there are young men in Estonia who did not have to undergo military service. If they didn't volunteer for that commitment, they stayed out. In a changed security situation, I have a call to the good prime minister not to attend the reserve officers' course. As a good person, I wouldn't want to be an infantry man in your squad if you're not the Prime Minister anymore and you're taking your team to attack. But I invite you to join the Defence League, where you will be able to complete a soldier's base course shifted over time, in a perfectly reasonable way. As a good sportsman and as an intelligent person, it doesn't give you any problem at all. After that, in this very system, in the Defence League, you will be able to get a chest in a rubber, also to become an officer and make a very decent career. This is particularly the case when, for example, you are no longer in politics in the future. Then no one can attack you. But I will be honest and frankly saying that right now you would show society quite well in this direction, because this is exactly what I would like to call for, and that I have already done, to present to all the other members of society who are looking for their place in national defence. We have a unique, unique opportunity in the world to participate in national defence in this way and we have nothing to be ashamed of. The second issue I want to address today is the sharp talk. Indeed, filming clips on the sites of the Defence Forces is not reasonable. As for the fact that this is the way it went, I really wouldn't want it to get into any trouble or a worse story, for example, a service investigation would be carried out on this esteemed waterboard that gave the permission that it really shouldn't have given. But it doesn't matter. I would like to join Mr Kaljuvee's position and say that, in some respects, this clip works. But it would be relatively reasonable for the Prime Minister to say to society that he will admit that in the future we could follow the principle that the items of the Defence Forces will not be used in the election campaign. I would also like to travel to the Liberty Square with an armored transporter entrusted to me as state property and say, 'For Estonia to the death! ' I think it might work, but once again I say that at the moment when it closes behind my back... I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U52	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U53	... The barrier that leads to the Harju chess territory of the Defence League, I no longer have a politician for a gram. At the same time, I am calling on all of us, indeed, not to argue about this and to try to keep these debates on a reasonable footing. I've rarely had the extraordinary honor of going to Stenbock's house. I've come to Stenbock's house the most, however, at the invitation of General Laaneots, because of my work on the National Defence Committee. Indeed, General Laaneots and I discussed for hours and hours the fact that he did not accept certain views in the new national defence development plan. He then discussed these topics with me as an Estonian officer and a member of the Riigikogu. On my question, why don't you tell the Prime Minister whose advisor you are, he said no one would listen to him. Maybe they didn't want to listen. I think, however, that there was a hearing, but as the Prime Minister said on the floor today, it was decided differently. Here I have a sincere appeal to all people. I myself am a very sharp person, so let's say that my big mouth has probably caused me a lot of enemies in my life. All I can say to my comfort is that I'm not such a lousy man that I don't have any enemies. In this respect, I would like to call for some party-political discipline to exist. I dare say that if the party takes one course, it should try to make it clear to its members that its personal opinion can wave, in a good way, a good citizen who has the right to say what he means. But if you have taken on one responsibility and have decided to start a political career, then you should still take into account those views, at least in the public space that your party has established for itself in a programmatic way. That would make sense. We're actually sending the wrong signal to society with this kind of whacking. I assure you that when the American troops came to Estonia, there were indeed plenty of citizens who said that this was a new occupation. Since I have a lot of contact with people on these topics, I was shocked that there were also a lot of Estonian-speaking and, say, people my age, maybe a little older than me, who also remember other social arrangements. It was strange listening, but that's what people thought. They have a right to think so. But if we are professionals and shape defence policy as a whole, we should find such internal discipline that we can argue with each other, but we must send out a message to the public that shows that we are united on these issues. Then the option that we are looking for all sorts of quotes from different times in this Chamber would be excluded, and it does not really act as one. I think we have the common sense to stand up for this little country with national defence policy. But I'm still telling the good Prime Minister, whenever you go to our house, you can bring me that statement. I assure you, it would be a great honour for us, and it would be the best chance of fulfilling our civic duty in such a way that no one can attack you in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U54	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U55	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I didn't plan on coming here to talk either, but I had to come to see the Prime Minister's reactions. I understand that the Reform Party has found another internal enemy before the elections, and this is the Central Party. I can tell you, Prime Minister, this move is no longer working. After the March elections, you will see that such intimidation with the Centre Party has lived a long time ago. I can tell you that the Centre Party has always supported the allocation of 2% of GDP to defence expenditure, unlike the Socialists, for example, who challenged it last year. Nor has the Centre Party ever opposed the fact that Estonia belongs to NATO. However, the Centre Party opposes the fact that Estonia's area of internal security has virtually lost its capacity during the governance of the Reform Party. Ants Laaneots has not only talked about Russian Spetsnaz crossing the Estonian border one way or the other and organising exercises there. He has also said that the border guard's office must be restored. But the Border Guard Office was also broken during the leadership of the Reform Party. How would these people live along the border, and what might their sense of security be like a high-ranking officer like a retired general, a member of the Reform Party, call into question the protection of our borders? As long as the Reform Party in the Prime Minister's identity has not refuted this claim, this suspicion is still in the air. I hope that the Reform Party will, at least in the near future, bring together the force and will be able to admit that such an incident has been and that it will no longer be possible to do so today. But as long as that doubt has not been denied, it is still in people's minds. I hope that the Prime Minister will discuss with his partymates what it really was like and what the situation is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U56	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Would the Prime Minister like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U57	Thank you. Since the last speaker had a specific appeal that the Prime Minister should disprove his doubts, I am doing so here too. I confirm that the Estonian Border Guard, Police and Border Guard Board is doing a very good job to ensure that the Estonian border is well guarded. But, of course, we understand that if we invest in the border, it will be possible to protect the Estonian border even more effectively and help the 700 people who do this work. The fact that we invest in the border is extremely important. The work is happening there now, but it should certainly not be taken as if the border is now completely defenceless. I'm sure it's wrong to say that, I assure you. The second thing that I heard about the last speech is the argument that we can conclude that the Social Democratic Party would not support 2% of the contribution to national defence. I also reject this statement, having repeatedly discussed it with the Social Democrats themselves. The government, which also includes the Social Democrats, is even more so where the Social Democrat is the Minister of Defence, has even planned more than 2% of defence expenditure in the budget this year and next year. True, not much more than 2%, but still more than 2%. So we have no disagreements with social democrats on these issues, and they also support Estonia's contribution to national defence of at least 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U58	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U59	The next item is the question of the forecast deficit of the state budget. Aivar Kokk, Urmas Reinsalu, Margus Tsahkna, Kaia Iva, Siim Kiisler, Marko Mihkelson, Reet Roos, Andrus Saare, Juhan Parts, Peeter Laurson and Helir-Valdor Seeder have submitted an inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! According to § 6 (1) of the State Budget Act, the state budget must be drawn up in such a way that the structural balance of the general government is in balance or in surplus. According to the Act, this is based on the public financial forecast mentioned in § 15 of the same Act, but the European Commission's forecasts and estimates are also important. The government has submitted a draft state budget for 2015, claiming that its structural surplus is 0.8% of gross domestic product. However, according to the European Commission's forecast, Estonia's general government budget deficit will be 0.7% of gross domestic product in 2015. The financial cost of these two percentage points of the difference is approximately 300 million euros, which, according to the European Commission, the planned expenditure in the budget of the Estonian state for the next year is 300 million euros more than there are revenues. It has been a long time since the request for an inquiry was made, and the Prime Minister has already answered in writing the questions put by the Members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister for that. But this written reply did not bring much clarity. It might even be said that this made the situation more understandable and confusing, at least for the accountant. I would rather focus now on what was incomprehensible in the reply given by the Prime Minister. First of all, the Prime Minister answers that the European Commission estimates that there is only a risk that Estonia will not meet its budgetary position objectives, so no further steps are needed. It is strange that when the European Commission refers to a very clear risk, the government concludes that there is no need for further action or action. The European Commission's forecast is actually overlooked. Moreover, in a written reply, the Prime Minister says: 'It should also be taken into account that the European Commission assesses Estonia's fiscal policy on the basis of European Union rules, but does not assess the compliance of the draft Estonian state budget with the basic law of the state budget. ' This makes it very clear that the basic law of the Republic of Estonia is contrary to the rules of the European Union. Now I would like to get an explanation from the Prime Minister as to whether this is really the case and whether we in the European Union should not strive to ensure that the budgets and the basic laws of the Member States comply with the rules of the European Union. We should at least aim to ensure that the Estonian state's budget and base law comply with the rules of the European Union, so that the European Commission can make an adequate assessment. The third thing I would like to draw attention to in relation to a written reply. It states that for some time it was known that the European Commission's assessment of the cyclical position of our economy and the structural position of our budget are somewhat different from our own. This raises the question of whether our former Prime Minister, Mr Ansip, has now fallen into some very bad company, the European Commission, which in no way understands the functioning of the Estonian economy, its cyclical nature and, after negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, maintains its position and considers that the actual forecast differs significantly from the forecast of the Republic of Estonia. However, this forecast concerns the same financial year. I stress, not another period, but the same financial year as the 2015 budget of the Republic of Estonia. So the written answers raised more questions than they gave answers to the questions we asked. We hope to have an explanation from the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U61	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer your questions. Question 1: 'What steps is the Government of the Republic taking to bring the 2015 state budget into line with the State Budget Act, according to which the budget must be drawn up in such a way that the structural balance of the government budget is in balance or in surplus? ' According to § 6 of the State Budget Act, the state budget, as you rightly said, must be drawn up in such a way that the structural balance of the general government is balanced or in surplus, taking into account the forecast of the Ministry of Finance. The 2015 draft state budget is designed to have a structural surplus of 0.8% in view of this forecast. The European Commission's forecast shows the risk, as you rightly mentioned, but it is not automatically a prerequisite for taking further steps. Estonia's budget for next year is based on the budget strategy for the years 2015 to 2018. The balance figures foreseen in previous years were in a slightly smaller surplus. We decided that the planned surplus should be somewhat higher to mitigate possible risks, and then this 0.8%. So Estonia adheres to the medium-term objective addressed in accordance with the principles of the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact and is a structural surplus of the government sector. Question 2: 'Has the Government of the Republic discussed the withdrawal of the 2015 draft state budget from the Riigikogu procedure and the submission of a new budget in line with the law in relation to the European Commission's forecast? ' I would like to stress once again that the draft state budget for 2015 is in line with the requirement of the structural budget balance of the State Budget Act, and the budget-related objectives will be assessed by the Fiscal Council established at Eesti Pank in 2016. According to the correction mechanism set out in § 7 of the State Budget Act, the Government of the Republic must implement measures to improve the budgetary position when the economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance indicates that the structural deficit of the government sector is above 0.5% of GDP. The European Commission's somewhat different assessments have already been taken into account in the design of fiscal policy. The country's fiscal strategy, as I said, aimed at maintaining the fiscal position in a structural surplus of 0.2% of GDP in 2015. We have now increased this percentage and set a reserve target of 0.8% of the structural surplus next year. These objectives are set out in the stability programme submitted to the European Commission and the Council of the European Union. It is precisely in order to take these risks into account that, as I said earlier, a structural surplus of up to 0.8% is planned. The third question: 'The European Commission's assessments do not usually come out of the blue and apparently, at least the officials of the Ministry of Finance have received enough official or informal information that things are not in order. When did the information that the state budget might not comply with the law in force reach you or the officials advising you, and what arrangements have you then given to the Minister of Finance? 'The Commission's economic forecast was published on 4 November, so these figures were not known by the time the state budget for the following year was drawn up, which is remembered to have been handed over to the Riigikogu already in September. At the same time, it was known for some time that the European Commission's assessment of the cyclical position of the Estonian economy and the structural position of the budget are somewhat different from ours. This has also been announced to the public, for example in spring 2014, when the forecast of the Ministry of Finance was presented, and also when the summer forecast of the Ministry of Finance was presented at the beginning of September. Members of the Riigikogu's committees, in particular the Finance Committee, have been informed about the subject by introducing the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance as well as the state budget procedure. In recent months, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this issue both on 1 September when the Ministry's economic forecast was presented and on 15 September when the Fiscal Council presented its opinion. I would point out that the Board is independent of the Government. The subject was also discussed at the press briefing on 15 October when the Minister of Finance spoke about the Ecofin discussions. This topic was further discussed after the publication of the Commission's forecast at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which took place on 10 November. Thus, the European Commission's different assessment really did not come out of the blue either to the Ministry of Finance or to the Government of the Republic, and the members of the Riigikogu were not surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U63	Questions. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U64	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. You have now read the prepared answers to our question. I tried to read your written reply from the remote, and the additional questions arising from it, because I think the written response made the situation more confusing, not clearer. Maybe you can comment. What does it mean if you claim that the European Commission evaluates Estonia's fiscal policy on the basis of European Union rules, but does not monitor the compliance of the draft Estonian state budget with the basic law of the state budget? Do the rules of the European Union differ so much on these issues that we are going to hold different opinions and get different assessments from our own? Does the European Commission and the Estonian state treat cyclicality and the structural position of the budget in a completely different way in the economy and, after negotiations, the European Commission continues to believe that we are dealing with a structural deficit? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U65	Thank you. However, the final balance of the structural balance can always be assessed only ex post and this position will be shaped by an independent fiscal council in 2016. In response to the difference between Estonia's own rules and the rules of the European Union, I say that Estonia's rules are stricter. If the Commission considers that the Estonian state budget may be in a structurally weaker position if it is assessed by the Ministry of Finance, this does not automatically mean that the budget is in any way contrary to the rules established in the European Union. In the European Union, the deficit criterion of the Stability and Growth Pact is known to allow for up to 3% of deficits. We have set the bar far above us ourselves, and I consider it very important to stick to it. However, when you read out your question, you tried to emphasise that there was a forecast and an actual forecast by the Ministry of Finance. I believe you will understand that this is not the case. The Ministry of Finance and the European Commission still assess the prospects for the future according to their own models. It is very difficult to say which one of these forecasts is actually closer to the truth. We know that the Ministry of Finance prepares forecasts independently of politicians, that is what professionals do there and that it cannot be said that their forecasts would have been worse than international organisations, for example. It cannot be said that the estimates of other Estonian institutions, which are in turn independent of the Ministry of Finance, would be as conservative as those of the European Commission. What's the real situation? Time will tell. If you believe that we can further increase the structural surplus of the budget or improve the balance further, I am basically not against it. If you show us where you can either find more money or save expenses, then of course we are also prepared to discuss it. I believe that such proposals will be accepted with open arms in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where the budget procedure is currently under way, but, as far as I know, such proposals were not received at second reading of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U66	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U67	Thank you. It is understandable that the rules agreed according to the growth pact in Europe and the basic law of the Estonian state budget are different. What's worrying is the difference is pretty big. We have talked here about an August of EUR 300 million. We are not talking about whether our current budget complies with European rules and whether we should have expected any procedure from the European Commission, rather it is precisely the case that forecasts cannot be so different. It has been pointed out here that there have been similar things in previous years. My question is what we should do to achieve mutual understanding with the Commission. Ultimately, if we look at international money markets, at what affects companies and banks, perhaps the Commission table will still be considered credible. In other words, my question is: what can we do or what has the government done to resolve the methodological differences with the European Commission in future forecasts, so that these forecasts run more or less in the same direction and the difference is not so great? At present, this represents 1.5% of the total revenue of the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U68	Thank you. That is a very good and relevant question. Normally, if the tables are compared, the nominal balance will be looked at in particular. There is no dispute here, here it is also much easier to actually measure how high the benefits are, what the costs are and what the balance is. We know that this balance is nominally a minus within 0.5%. We also know what these one-off factors are, why he's in the minus side of all of this we know. It is more difficult to put such a number on a structural deficit or surplus, because it shows not so much how much the current year is coming and spending, but what the budget is, let us say, given the potential of the economy. The difference is that the Commission appreciates the potential of the Estonian economy in contrast to how Estonia evaluates itself. They will probably also take into account other factors, including the fact that the Estonian economy is growing faster than the average in Europe, which is a clear fact. If I try to clarify by simplifying it, the Commission anticipates that our economy is growing beyond potential, that we are, once again simplifying, as if in the booming period. I don't think we're in the booming period, but I'm not the one making the predictions. With a little interest in the economy myself, I believe in a rather subconscious way, like the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who, once again, have independently reached these conclusions that the Estonian economy is not in the boom, that Estonia actually has the preconditions to grow even faster. Here comes the fundamental difference. But, of course, I agree with you that it must be possible to clarify these differences. That's quite a lot I know of. The Commission has been tried to explain why 2% or 3% of economic growth, which would seem like a boom in most European countries, is not a boom from the Estonian point of view, why Estonia has the potential to grow even faster. This has been repeatedly explained to the Commission by the officials of the Ministry of Finance, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U69	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U70	The following question is about the construction of a LNG terminal in Finland. It has been presented by Marko Mihkelson, Urmas Reinsalu, Priit Sibul and Juhan Parts, who will also speak on behalf of the heirs. Please, five minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U71	Mr. Speaker! Mr Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 17 November, we learned that the government intends to conclude a so-called political agreement on the location of the regional gas terminal at the level of the prime ministers of Estonia and Finland. We have made an inquiry into this, which we say, having also got to know the text of the agreement, that the agreement is not in Estonia's interests. We will stick to this position. We're opting for a government step like this in three positions. Firstly, this agreement and the so-called compromise agreement, which should give Estonia Balticconnector to unite the Estonian and Finnish markets, are not a priority for Estonia. We agree that this agreement is important for the wider development of the gas market between Finland and the Baltic States, but the impact of this pipe on the security of energy supply in Estonia is zero. That is not what we say from a political point of view, but on the basis of the opinion of a number of experts. Therefore, it is not Estonia's direct interest whether the pipe will be built sooner or later. The second point where we opt for a government agreement is that the right to make a very strategic investment on Estonian territory was lost. The regional gas terminal is not only a bilateral issue between Estonia and Finland, but also concerns Latvia and Lithuania. The investment to build it would greatly enrich the economic environment and contribute to economic growth in the short and long term. If it is possible to be more specific later, I will tell you what it means when the terminal is located on this side of the Gulf of Finland and LNG is also physically available on this side, for investments in energy intensive industries, what it means to develop 'data warehouses' and e-state infrastructure in an international context and what it means for the strategic development of the transport sector. Consequently, the government should have stood for the terminal to come to Estonia. And there's a third reason why we're going to open up. There are well-known rules in Europe that require that all investments made by companies, which are planned on a market-based basis, be treated equally. By concluding an agreement where we believe that Estonia has received nothing, we have not protected the legitimate rights and interests of our companies enough, almost not at all. We have asked five questions, and we really hope that the Prime Minister will take advantage of this opportunity and will discuss as much as possible how such results have been achieved and why the three legitimate interests of Estonia that I have spoken about have been abandoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U72	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will respond to your request for information made on 19 November. The first question: 'When will the government disclose the text of the agreement between the prime ministers of Estonia and Finland on gas infrastructure? Will this agreement be binding on the Finnish State even if the Prime Minister changes? ' The agreement was concluded in Helsinki on 17 November 2014 and the text was forwarded to the European Commission and the Prime Minister of Latvia together with a joint letter signed on 24 November by the Prime Minister of Estonia and Finland. According to the agreement with Finland, the letter and the text of the agreement are public after the letter has been sent. The agreement is binding on both Estonia and Finland and is also the basis for further work. The Joint Letter of Prime Ministers calls for a roadmap for the implementation of the gas infrastructure priority projects listed in the Agreement and for the European Commission to be involved in the process. Question 2: 'On what legal basis did you conclude this agreement with Finland as Prime Minister? " This is a political agreement based on a decision taken by the Cabinet on 6 November. The legal basis for investment in gas infrastructure is Regulation 347 of the European Union of 2013. According to this, financing decisions are taken by the European Commission, but the latter has made a political agreement a prerequisite. This was confirmed by a letter from the Commission's Energy Commissioner to the Prime Ministers. Question 3: 'The European Commission, all the Baltic States and Finland have previously defined the definition and criteria of a regional terminal and agreed to give priority to a project that meets these conditions most. Please explain why the Finnish terminal project proved to be better than Estonia's projects. ' The European Commission, the Baltic States and Finland agreed on the basic selection criteria for the regional terminal in the high-level BEMIP working group on 25 March 2013. The main criteria for selecting the most suitable project were the conformity of the terminal with the size of the market, the independence of the terminal owners from the incumbent gas seller and the establishment of one regional terminal in the region, which would also be a prerequisite for EU support. The options considered in the negotiations so far were not suitable for financing from the European Union and the prospects for support further deteriorated due to the completion of the Klaipeda LNG terminal and the progress of the GIPL project, i.e. the gas connection between Lithuania and Poland. Finland's advantage over Estonia can be considered to be the region's highest consumption market. According to data for 2013, 3.5 billion m3 of natural gas was consumed in Finland, while Estonia's consumption was below 0.7 billion m3, indicating five times the difference in consumption. This means that, of course, if the investment cost or operating cost of a terminal needs to be covered, even partially, by the gas tariff, it will be several times easier to do in Finland. This is probably understood by all those who use natural gas themselves in Estonia. The criterion of ownership independence. According to the Finnish Minister for Economic Affairs, Finland will also start the process of ownership unbundling between the system operator and the producer on its gas market in accordance with the Gas Market Directive of the Third Energy Package of the European Union. It has also been brought to Commissioner Oettinger in a letter from Jan Vapaavuor dated 19 March. In February 2013, the Finnish Government adopted a decision on this in principle. Ownerial separation in both Estonia and Finland will certainly have a positive impact on the emergence of competition and boost the gas market in the whole region. To date, we know that decisions to transfer 75% of the participation to the control of the Finnish state have been made and these processes take place in parallel in Finland and Estonia. Question 4: 'Please explain how the agreement on security of gas supply and energy security for Estonia will improve the construction of a gas pipeline in Finland, where only gas produced by Gazprom is on the market today, and leaves the construction and completion of a regional gas terminal vague. ' The Prime Ministers agreed not only on the construction of the Balticconnector, but also on the construction of the regional LNG terminal. In addition, we agreed that if Finland fails to submit an application to the European Commission for any reason arising from Finland within two years, Estonia has the right to establish a regional terminal. We also agreed that Estonia will be able to build a so-called SOS terminal covering the needs of its market if it wishes. Actually, it was a wider deal. Both Estonia and Finland consider it important to diversify gas supply sources. This means that the common goal is to create real competition in the gas market. This requires the existence of several gas suppliers. According to the agreement, the regional terminal will be completed in the same time frame as the Balticconnector. And I would like to stress once again that in the event of a failure on the Finnish side to submit an application for 2016, it is possible to establish a regional terminal in Estonia. The gas pipeline connects the markets on both shores of the Gulf of Finland and creates a new large market. What does that mean? I think you actually know this very well as a former Minister for Economic Affairs. Pretty similar examples are the electricity market facilities EstLink 1 and EstLink 2, which is a very important step forward for Estonia in terms of energy security. And I am convinced that just like EstLink 1 and EstLink 2 in the electricity market, the gas pipeline allows for a long step forward in the gas market. The share of gas in Estonia's energy balance is considerably smaller and rather declining, but it is nevertheless important enough to ensure that no one on the other side of the eastern border can dictate to us the conditions under which we buy the gas or to dictate what policy we must pursue in order to obtain gas. In a large market, there will be more opportunities to manage consumption in the event of gas supply disruptions. Connections with the emerging large market and changes in the ownership of system operators create quite a number of opportunities. I believe that we can all anticipate and see what victory it will bring if Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are no longer an isolated energy island, as is called in the European slang, but the markets are connected from Finland to Poland and, of course, even further in the future. Question 5: 'How long is the Gazprom contract for the supply of gas to Finland and is Finland allowed to sell gas to Estonia at a lower price than the gas to be purchased? 'Gas supply contracts are business-to-business contracts and their terms and conditions are not public. So the Estonian Government has no official information about the Finnish treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U74	There are questions for the Minister. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U75	Thank you. Prime Minister, pull yourself together now! It is very important to us that you respond in substance. The first question concerns the impact of terminal investment on the Estonian economy. You said that the study discussed this issue in November and gave up this investment in Estonia, in a situation where the Estonian project was the best according to objective criteria. I assure you it was the best project, and I have not heard that the situation has changed. What positive effects that would have made Estonia's economic environment more attractive in terms of jobs and also attracted new investors who need liquid gas, we gave up the right to establish a terminal in Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U76	Thank you. You've confirmed a lot of things on this subject. I watched with great interest the debate programme 'Forum', where you confirmed that this agreement, which is now available to you in writing, is not written. You assured me that you knew better about me and Alexander Stubb than the result of our private conversation in Milan. You've confirmed a lot of things. However, when it comes to content, it is also worth noting that it is not necessary to give misleading signals or false claims. This also applies to an investment of EUR 600 million. In fact, we are actually talking about a size of 300 million, for which it is not known until the end whether the European Commission is paying 5% or 30%. In any case, most of it must be found. Where exactly do we find this money, whether the company can put it out on its own, whether and how much the company will ask Estonian gas consumers about this money back, how much this will affect the price of gas, these are, in fact, things that have not been clear to the end. To say that five times the need for the Estonian market, let's say conservatively, the construction of a gas terminal at least four times as large in Estonia without knowing for sure whether we have a connection to the Finnish market, and knowing that in Lithuania, which is the nearest large market, if you exclude Finland, the gas terminal is there to say that in this situation the construction of the gas terminal is unequivocally positive and a growth-enhancing undertaking, is relatively naive. At the same time, if it were possible to build a pipeline connection to Finland and the terminal and to do all this very quickly, our first preference would, of course, be to build this terminal in Estonia and to establish a pipeline connection very quickly. However, we have seen that the Finnish side is not ready for such an agreement. There were a number of individuals that showed that if we had completed this line, there would not have been an agreement for several years. One important feature was, of course, that the summer had run into sand and completely hopelessly sanded negotiations between companies, where Alexela and EG Võrguteenus participated from the Estonian side and Gasum from the Finnish side. You could see they couldn't make a deal. It was clear that if we did not intervene decisively now, as Alexander Oettinger, Commissioner for Energy, recommended in his letter to Mr Stubb, we would depend on only one source of gas for several years to come. What does it mean if we depend only on the gas coming from Russia? From an economic point of view, the price of gas, in any case the price of gas coming from Russia, has been competitive with LNG, rather than even more favourable, but we also know that we cannot be sure of that until the end. We know that in some countries, like us in Russia's immediate neighbourhood, gas has also been used as a political leverage. I will be honest: I do not want Estonia to be politically influenced in the future by any decision to make so that gas supply in Estonia is not disrupted. That is why I consider it very important that Estonia gets an alternative as soon as possible. If the alternative were to cut back on our position without listening to the views of the other party, and to think that national interest is an uncompromising, not an agreement, then we would achieve that there will be no agreement for several years and no visible steps will be taken for several years to find an alternative to Russian gas on the Estonian market. We have chosen the path of agreement and have chosen the opportunity to submit an investment request by next spring to start building the Balticconnector pipeline. We're going to start making investments on the section between Kiisa and Paldiski, which is a pretty long section. This investment of several tens of million euros, which comes directly to Estonia's territory, will certainly have a positive impact on the economy as well. In this regard, we have the knowledge that the European Commission is supporting this project in the lion's part. I would point out that, in the case of a terminal, it is not known exactly how much the Commission would be willing to support the project. But we know that this support would certainly be significantly lower than in the case of a gas pipeline. The Commission has unequivocally stated that market integration is their priority. It's worth noting. I listened to your speech and thought of the three arguments or doubts that have been thrown up. I cannot agree that this agreement is not a priority interest for Estonia. Also during the previous government, based specifically on studies, the merger of markets was considered priority No 1. If we look at the government's previous positions, as well as the studies, they show unambiguously that it is the connection of markets that best guarantees the security of Estonia, of course, if the connection of the markets involves the construction of a regional terminal. And it comes with it. If this is not done in Finland within two years, it is possible to start building a terminal in Estonia immediately afterwards. There have been many emotions around this subject in my opinion. But if you are now assessing the situation yourself, there has been no real alternative. This is the first tangible agreement and the opportunity to become independent from the gas coming from Russia. As such, I consider this agreement to be very important for Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U77	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U78	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! In my opinion, you have concluded a contract which may prove impossible under certain circumstances. It's about the construction of a gas pipeline. When Nord Stream gas pipeline was under discussion, our environmentalists opposed any pipe installation in the Gulf of Finland, and even studies were not allowed, because the base of the Gulf of Finland is full of toxic sources of pollution. Has the environmental conditions in the Gulf of Finland improved so much that a gas pipeline can be installed there, and have environmentalists changed their position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U79	Thank you. The funds have already been allocated for environmental research and can be started considerably earlier than the physical construction of a pipe. But in order to mitigate this risk that you have mentioned, which is in itself the right emphasis, we agreed that we could start the construction of the ground section of this pipe, where there are no risks such as those of building the bottom of the sea and where the preparations have gone further. This means that we can start building a pipe between Kiisa and Paldiski, which is to start building the section between the core network of Eesti Gaas and the subsea pipe. So we can get the construction stages, let's say, to rank priority or feasibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U80	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! You are talking about energy independence and that gas is used for foreign policy purposes. But the terminal does not come to Estonia; the terminal comes to Finland, another country. Finland may also begin to influence politically, not perhaps in 10 years' time, but in 20 or 30 years' time. Don't you think your rhetoric is a little short of logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U82	Thank you. No, it doesn't. If we look at history, if we appreciate current relations and statements and actions, then I see no danger that Finland will not be an ally of Estonia in 20, 30 or 50 years' time. I'm sure it is. Any such construction that Finland is going to have a political influence on Estonia with gas, as Russia has done in some countries, is, in my opinion, ridiculous. I can't estimate the probability of that from scratch.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U83	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U84	Thank you. Prime Minister! What makes you think that through the route from Finland we are independent of Russian gas when gas comes to the Finnish terminal from Russia? Where is this energy security place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U85	Thank you. This concept of gas coming from Russia to the Finnish terminal is the first time I have heard it. However, I assume that LNG can be delivered from a very large number of places. The nearest such big center is Rotterdam. There are many sources of gas origin. I believe that, in a five-year perspective, we can already talk about the gas coming from the United States. This argument that the terminal would have the same gas as the pipes coming from Russia is simply not true and is not technically logical either. In any case, if there is a terminal, it does not have to be a terminal serving the entire region, four times the volume of consumption in Estonia, it may even be a small terminal in Estonia, a smaller or larger terminal in Finland or a terminal in Lithuania, it is possible that the gas network will come from an alternative source. These ships can come, as I said, from Rotterdam, where there are large terminals, and they can come from many other places. That's what gives a real alternative. If there is a combined market, it does not matter whether this entry point is actually available in Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or Poland. There will be an alternative gas coming to the market, which will ensure that we do not depend on one channel or one gas coming only from Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U86	§ 140 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act provides an opportunity to ask a question at the time of the inquiry. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Juhan Parts, please! Please, an extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U87	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! First of all, I thank you for these answers, even though the heart still hurts. I would like to say a few words once again to open up this completely unexpected problem of agreement for us, which was probably at the beginning of the Prime Minister's solo and later was somehow finalised in the office. We were also shown this communiqué, and I have to be honest with you that I read it on the front and on the back. Knowing the Finnish negotiators, I must first make it clear that there was no agreement on any kind of terminal construction. It was agreed that the terminal would be submitted to Brussels. Whether they foresee the construction of a terminal in the near future, before 2025, God knows that, because the papers must be submitted to Brussels at the end of 2016. Question two. I understand this meta-level approach of the Prime Minister that there is a market and no matter where the terminals are and where the gas flows. I can understand that myself. But I think that's the problem here that made me say in a newspaper that the Prime Minister is being advised by men like the Bludvere Arn. Gas and electricity aren't the same thing. There is a big difference between access to LNG on the territory of Estonia or on this side of the Gulf of Finland, as LNG creates opportunities for transport, industrial companies and many other things. We are already seeing how a small meat factory in Saaremaa brings liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Russia to solve its energy issue. In fact, many industrial companies would need such an energy solution. It is not a question of whether or not the gas flows. The key question to which we did not receive an answer was that, as the Prime Minister rightly said, all the parties agreed on objective terminal criteria with the European Commission in spring 2013. It was agreed that whoever made a better offer would win. In fact, a better offer is not just an essay competition, but the most important question is how much money is being asked at the expense of the consumer to make an investment and how much investment support is being asked. The business plans have been compared at different stages in Latvia, at the beginning also for the two terminals in Lithuania, Estonia and Finland, and the project was the best one. In terms of location, Estonia's project was also the best, because it is not about Finland and Estonia's terminals, but it is about the regional terminal of Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. And one of the very strategic components of the regional terminal is that large ocean ships will be operating there. All the small terminals get gas from there. This is a very central issue. In other words, Estonia had a better project, but the Finns naturally defended their interests and we simply had to give in. Did we have to give in? No, you didn't. We had two choices. It is not true that this agreement, which was concluded in 2014 between the ministries of the economy and supported by the governments of both countries, as well as our previous Prime Minister, was stuck behind the companies. This really was a compromise because it intended to create the capacity of a regional terminal on both sides of the Gulf of Finland, especially in view of the economic interests of Estonia, which are connected with industry, new major energy investments and transport. Businesses I have also been following Gasum's press releases was stuck behind the fact that their so-called support from the European Commission could have been too small. However, here two governments would have had the opportunity to intervene again in September this year and to express their willingness to come to the aid of certain capital investments so that this real compromise could be realised. It wasn't done. Estonia would still have been able to take a very clear position. All right, next spring, the European Energy Facility will open its own funding round and let it be the one with the best project according to European law and rules. All parties show good will, and if the Finnish project were better, the Finnish project would win, if not, the Estonian project. I would point out that there is another problem. Indeed, if this round is opened in February or March 2015, companies will still have the right to submit applications. If the relevant Estonian or Finnish authorities, as well as the Brussels authorities, refuse to refer to the letters of the two prime ministers, companies will naturally have the right to make claims, because such an agreement does not really constitute a basis for European law. In other words, on the European Commission's guideline or friendly advice that boys can agree there on the Gulf of Finland, there is no legal basis for European'market competition'. And I think that the Estonian Government should have based itself on these two positions. My time is running out, but I want to stress in particular that when it comes to the impact on the economy, the impact of energy security, when I listen to the Prime Minister, is overrated. We need to assess the risks of security of gas supply in a more pragmatic and realistic way, rather than going to frighten people that the gas might run out. These risks need to be addressed, but they are not so fatal, gas is easily substitutable. However, I am most disturbed by the economic impact. This investment would have added an attraction to the Estonian economic environment; we would have given a very good LNG-based solution to operating industrial companies that use electricity or fuel oil as their energy source. Calculations have been made according to which an average company would gain up to 20% in heating costs or energy costs, perhaps more. Thirdly, it would have created an opportunity to attract very different types of investment into Estonia. As a result of my previous work, I can assure you that it not only concerns the so-called data warehouses or the server park, which is able to take certain positions on the global market, but also concerns a number of other very specific industrial companies, for which the proximity of LNG gas would be important, the possibility of LNG gas. So because of this agreement, we lost a great deal in terms of the attractiveness of Estonia's economic environment. I would also not underestimate that if this terminal had been decided to invest in Estonia, then I have realised that the developers of the Estonian project would be prepared to do so next year. During the construction period, the impact of such an investment on the Estonian economy would have meant 2000 jobs in three years. That's a very large number. In other words, when we say that the government is worried about small economic growth, that we are almost standing still, a light-handed abandonment of such investments shows that the growth or dynamic development of the Estonian economy is absolutely no more to us. It bothers me the most. What we are going to do with the Prime Minister after this answer is that we must discuss in our party. Anything's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U88	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U89	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Parts spoke up very nicely, because as former Minister for Economic Affairs he certainly has very detailed information on what is going on. I would now talk about this whole gas thing from the point of view of a simple person and, let's say, from the point of view of an entrepreneur who has to manage in Estonia. Let us be honest, if we are talking about one thing or another to ensure our energy independence, then it is ridiculous to have statements about a terminal that maybe will be decided in 2016, and if not, we will decide that we will decide to make it to Estonia. Looking at my social security number, I'm afraid by following this scheme, we can't guarantee gas security in any way, at least in my lifetime. Where does all this background noise really come from? We are honest, if this gas were such a mysterious and gas economy mechanism of such a complex nature, then there would not have been about two groups of private individuals in Estonia a few good years ago who started with the development of the gas terminal. One development project was clearly linked to the former Minister of the Environment, Heiki Kranich, who is part of the Reform Party. It can therefore be said that the launch of the Heiki Kranich project was certainly well known to the Reform Party as the ruling party in the country. The second group of private operators, which started the Paldiski terminal project, did not have such a party identity. The rivalry between these two groups was probably one of the most important factors for a long time, why the issue of the gas terminal was known to the public and why it was difficult to reach any real decisions. At one point, a project of a group of private operators, the so-called Heiki Kranich project, ceased to exist. In fact, it was completely reasonable management, because on paper, ideas were sold, which is what it takes to put something into practice. The other gas project, Paldiski's, we have a perfectly real, physical one right now. You get the feeling that we don't want to solve this gas thing because we're always looking and groping, where it's more sensible or useful to do something, maybe weird. I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U90	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U91	Let's be honest, independence doesn't exist unless you control the infra yourself. The most serious problem with the whole problem is that for a very long time there was a struggle for Eesti Gaas to sell its distribution network, because it is not in the right place. Now, once again, the state is the owner of the network, but we know what happened in energy, the network charges are very high. If the state controls nothing but these networks, i.e. pipes and terminal, it is LNG or some other G, there is somewhere abroad, then I am seriously afraid that the Estonian consumer will not be able to pay for this gas. Because if we put the cost of a pipe to be installed in the sea here, the infra-charges will be so high, and the country will have to make some money, after all. The peasant's mind says that the private-capital terminal to Paldiski is created anyway for the simple reason that men have gone too far and the concept of this terminal is very reasonable from the point of view of Estonia. There can be a large ship, it is relatively close to the port of war, that is, it is possible and reasonable to defend it as a strategic object, so let's say, in a heightened danger situation. It is possible to build a pipe in Finland quite quickly if there is a terminal, there is a relatively well-established network in Estonia, then you can go to Latvia and, in the future, maybe even Lithuania or anywhere. In terms of logistics location, the Port of Paldiski is significantly better than the Port of Finland, for the simple reason that the entrance of the Finnish port is much more complicated than the average, and getting large ships there does not seem very realistic. What are the solutions? I think that the Estonian state should not be afraid of being soulful and perhaps, at one point, financially successful. So I think it would be wise to buy up this Paldiski project, to say that the Estonian state will realise it. It is possible to raise very sound capital there. We can create a project that is understandable to the European Union in a relatively short period of time, to say that we have decided so, we are able to pull pipes from here to wherever, even to Russia. We're taking the risk of any kind of private capital out of it. I think that Estonia's pension funds, for example, could be used for capitalisation purposes. Instead of Greek bonds, the terminal shares could be purchased. This terminal could certainly be managed quite successfully here, up to the point that any transport of the Baltic Sea, perhaps ships, would take advantage of the opportunities offered by LNG, etc. I would urge us to think soberly. We cannot be sure of something that will perhaps come in 2016 or later. We could actually act now. We spend a lot of money everywhere. And if we know that the amount of EUR 300 million has gone through, it would be very reasonable to do a terminal for about EUR 300 million, for the simple reason that the day after tomorrow it might really cost EUR 500 million. I think that through this we would once again show that Estonia is a wise state and that it is taking advantage of all the possibilities at its disposal, taking advantage of its territorial characteristics, which are a pain to us on the one hand, but a plus on the other. So once again, I call for common sense and bold economic decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U92	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Would the Prime Minister like a word? Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U93	Thank you. As there are still an incredible number of inaccurate statements around these issues, I consider it my duty to reject some of the inaccurate statements that were made in the last two speeches. Firstly, all the time when the current government has been in office, it has been assumed that both the site of the gas pipeline and the location of the terminal are located in Paldiski. All kinds of references to some earlier projects are inappropriate in the sense that they have not been on the table for a long time. The choice to come to Paldiski was made during Juhan Parts' appointment as Minister of Economic Affairs. Now, if you look at what the former Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications said, it seems that this agreement was actually simple and could have been done to make all the dreams of Estonia reflected. The only thing that doesn't make sense is why the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, who had been in office for seven years, was unable to reach that agreement in any way. A few similar topics remind me of the ferry, where everything had been agreed, yet the new Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when he took office, found a situation where he had to start from scratch. But we did it, too. A little similar was the situation with Rail Baltic, where everything was very well, but yet we saw that our good allies and partners were offended, because they were told very uglylyly. Life has shown that for many things that Juhan Parts has tried to show that he has already done or agreed to do, his successor has had to work evilly. And I'm actually very happy, and I'm proud that he's done it very well. Now about the political agreement. The political agreement between the two countries is a prerequisite for obtaining any financing from the European Commission at all. This is a very important understanding. As regards the idea that the terminal would be on both sides of the bay, Estonia did indeed request it. Unfortunately, in practice, it happened that it did not find the Commission's support, which is why it makes no sense for us to live in the illusion that what would have been if the Commission had supported this idea. The reality is, it didn't. Consequently, it was not possible to proceed with this. The fact is that by the end of the summer we were at zero and had to take a step forward. Now I have good news about all this. Juhan Parts had concerns about how LNG could be used for transportation, bunkering and other functions in Estonia. It's possible for us to do it. We can build this terminal, whether in Paldiski, Muuga or Sillamäe, and it is significantly smaller than the regional terminal, which, I stress, is four times larger than Estonia's own market needs. There are no obstacles to the construction of this terminal; this is part of the agreement. Current characteristics show that, in order to build this terminal, we will be able to get much more support from the European Union than we can get for the construction of a regional terminal. The fact that 2 000 people will be employed at the terminal, I believe, we all understand that this figure has been oversold by several orders of magnitude. However, it is certain that the construction of the pipe also brings real jobs, real economic activity and real opportunities. Two things Juhan Parts said, I can't agree. Here I am quite categorical. Firstly, I absolutely do not agree with the overestimation of energy security as if it were not important. I don't agree with that! My words are confirmed by all the examples that we can also bring from Europe, where gas has been used as a weapon. I do not want Estonia to depend solely on the gas coming from Russia. I therefore believe that addressing this issue is not an overestimation. Secondly, I would ask Juhan Parts to apologize to the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Elering's leaders, whom he called the Blurvere Arns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U94	I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U95	The next question is about grants for sports federations. It is presented by Toomas Tõniste, Tõnis Palts, Aivar Riisalu, Annely Akkermann, Peeter Laurson, Aivar Kokk, Andrus Saare, Priit Sibul, Juhan Parts and Marko Pomerants. Mr Tõniste takes the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U96	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Decree of the Minister for Culture lays down a procedure for allocating funds from the state budget to the Ministry of Culture for sport support, under which grants are paid to sports federations. Unfortunately, however, this procedure is not followed for any reason in the distribution of sport grants to sports federations and those who have taken an interest in it have not received a clear answer as to why this is the case. In order for there to be no speculation in the future, I, along with my colleagues, used the opportunity here to ask publicly about this, so that everyone would hopefully receive an exhaustive answer to the questions that had arisen. The questions we asked were as follows. Why did the grants granted to sports federations for 2014 not comply with the rules laid down by the Minister of Culture's Regulation? On the basis of the 2013 results, what was the ranking for the allocation of support for sport federations? What sports sector received more support than provided for the allocation of resources from the state budget to the Ministry of Culture in support of sport, as established by the Decree of the Minister of Culture, and which sports sector did lose and how much? What is the Ministry of Culture planning to do to ensure that the grants for 2015 correspond to the results of the sports federations in 2014 and to the rules established by the Minister of Culture Regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U97	Urve Tiidus, Minister of Culture, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U98	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am happy to explain the issues highlighted in my inquiry. You are asking why the grants granted to sports federations for this year did not comply with the rules laid down by the Minister of Culture's regulation. The very short answer is that you did. On 21 December 2012, the Minister of Culture approved the arrangements for the allocation of resources from the state budget to the Ministry of Culture in support of sport. This Regulation clarified the procedure for allocating grants to sport organisations in order to ensure transparency in the distribution of grants. Compared to the previous Regulation, new criteria were added and some criteria were also deleted. For example, consideration of good governance in allocating money has been added, for example, the organisation of international competitions in Estonia has been excluded, as this is a separate programme at the Ministry of Culture. Now I'm talking about the content of the grants. The aim of the operating grant for the sub-unions is to support the activities of the charter: the development of a sport at the level of excellence and competition sport and exercise, participation in the international sports and Olympic movement, expansion of the sport coverage, raising the sport level, etc. An advisory committee has been set up for the distribution of sport grants with up to seven members, including a representative of the Ministry and the Olympic Committee and other experts in the field of sport. It is the task of this Commission, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Regulation, to assess the applications for the grant and the circumstances affecting the grant of the grant which has subsequently become known and to make proposals to the Minister for Culture to decide on the grant and the change in the amount of the grant. I will now speak a little bit further, so that those who are not directly involved will also have more information on how the ministry provides financial support to the allied regions. In January, the Commission met and took account of the ranking drawn up on the basis of the criteria set out in the Ministerial Regulation and of further objective circumstances. As the funding for sport became a very topical issue at the beginning of 2014, as it was due to be completely transferred from scholarships to pay salaries and the winter Olympics was imminent, but the sponsoring support of state companies disappeared, the members of the Commission had the desire to ensure at least the stability of the Ministry's operating support by 2014. The importance of supporting youth sport was specifically emphasised, as 75% of the funding allocated to sub-unions goes to sports clubs. The Commission supported these circumstances and also took into account Paragraph 9 (3) of the Ministerial Regulation, which, inter alia, entrusts the sports grant committee with the task of making proposals to the Minister for Culture to decide on the allocation of grants and the change in the amount of the grant. The Commission has exercised its right under the Regulation and has proposed to the Minister not to reduce the support of any sports federations compared to 2013. At that point in time, this was a reasonable decision in the light of objective circumstances. The Ministry of Culture considers that the state budget support allocated to the activities of sports federations has been allocated according to the Regulation and there are still sources of funding for sports federations. All public sector grants (Estonian Olympic Committee, Estonian Cultural Endowment and Gambling Tax Council) will be monitored. The second question: 'What was the ranking of the distribution of sport federations' support based on the results of 2013? ' Here, too, it must be recalled as general information that the award of grants concerns sports federations in three groups: Olympic sports companies receiving 60 to 65 percent of the budget, sports sports teams receiving 25 to 30% of the budget, and other sports enterprises with 10 to 15% of the budget. In all three groups, the distribution of sports federations' grants is assessed by the following factors: the number of players in the sports register, the number of coaches by the sports register, the proportion of trainers with a higher professional level, the performance of sport in the last four years, not only in the previous year (a detailed matrix has been drawn up to assess the results of the competition) and representation at the recent Olympic Games, and the new criterion is compliance with good governance in the sports association. Taking all of this into account, the rankings of sports federations emerge in three categories. Therefore, the wording '2013' used in the misleading question is misleading. On the basis of the results of 2003'. The sporting achievements of previous years and other factors will also be taken into account. As I mentioned earlier, sports federations are dealt with in three groups. The Olympics are led by the Estonian Athletics Association, Estonian Ski Association, Estonian Yachting Association, Estonian Wrestling Association and Estonian Swimming Association. The best way to play team sports is the Estonian Basketball Association, the Estonian Football Association, the Estonian Volleyball Association, the Estonian Handball Association and the Estonian Saali hockey Association. The five best of non-Olympics are the Estonian Bodybuilding and Fitness Association, the Estonian Orienteering Association, the Estonian Underwater Association, the Estonian Technical and Sports Association and the Estonian Veemoto Association. The third question: 'Which sports sector received more support than provided for the allocation of resources from the state budget to the Ministry of Culture in support of sport, established by the Decree of the Minister of Culture, and which sports sector lost, and how much? ' As I mentioned above, the Commission's intention was, above all, to ensure stability in the field of sport, at least in terms of the Ministry's operating grants. Since there are 47 sports federations on this whole list, I can't read them all. I'll just give you a few examples from the front. The Estonian Athletics Association received more money than the calculated grant amount. The Estonian Ski Association gained more. The Estonian Yachting Association, true, received a little less, 238 euros less than the estimated amount of support. The Estonian Wrestling Association received 9,000 euros less than the estimated amount of support. But you will understand these decisions better if I explain the principles to you. The following principles were taken into account if the grant of the sport federation was to increase in relation to the 2013 amount according to the calculations made on the basis of the evaluation criteria. The amount of aid for all sports federations will increase by at least 10,5% compared to the amount for 2013. It was a common decision. If the grant for the sports federation in the Olympic Group was less than EUR 15000 last year, the grant was set at up to 20% compared to the grant for the previous year. Such alliances were the Estonian Boxing Federation, the Estonian Triathlon Association, the Estonian Tõstestsport Association, the Estonian Federation of Rowings and the Estonian Lauatennis Association. The aim is to gradually align the grants for sport federations with the calculations made on the basis of the evaluation criteria and to support more sports federations that have received smaller grants in previous years. In this way, the administrative capacity and capacity of these sports federations can be further enhanced. One more example. If, according to the calculations, the amount of the grant for the sports federation should increase by at least 100% compared to the 2013 grant, the amount of the grant for this sub-division shall be set at 30%. Such alliances were the Estonian Skate Union, the Estonian Badminton Association, the Estonian Archival Union, the Estonian Golf Association, the Estonian Modern Five Cup Association, the Estonian Saali hockey Association and the Estonian Bodybuilding and Fitness Association. The aim is to gradually align the grants for sport federations with the calculations made on the basis of the evaluation criteria and to provide more support to those sports federations whose contribution should increase significantly compared to the previous year's contribution on the basis of the calculations. As the grants for these sports federations have been low in previous years, it is possible in this way to increase the administrative capacity and capacity of these sports federations. Question 4: "What is the Ministry of Culture planning to do to ensure that the grants for 2015 correspond to the results of the sports federations in 2014 and to the procedure established by the Decree of the Minister of Culture? " All sports groups have been aware of the development of this year's grants since the beginning of this year. The decrees and grants of the grant are all public documents. All the sub-mobiles have also received a letter of support. Everyone was right and had the opportunity to challenge these amounts within 30 days, no one did. The meetings have also shown the ranking of the sub-unions and the amounts of aid, and the sub-programmes have accepted the principle of avoiding large fluctuations in grants. The Ministry will continue to be ready to meet the representatives of the sub-unions and give reasons for its decisions in the future. Prior to the entry into force of the new regulation, the grants added to international competitions and the amounts added to the Riigikogu before the third reading were significantly affected. Since the Ministry of Culture does not want to reduce significantly the operating grants for the sub-unions, the best solution would, of course, be to increase the support for sports associations in general. In this case, the additional support would be able to increase the support of the good sports federations that are currently receiving less than the others. The first ranking of grants for 2015 will be completed by the beginning of next year, when all the results of this year and additional information on coaches are known. Following this, the situation can be analysed and decisions can be taken for 2015. If the principles of this Regulation and the criteria set out therein are to be amended, such proposals can be made for 2016. As always in life, nothing is 100 percent perfect or perfect, but everything can be made closer to the ideal. Thank you very much for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U99	Questions for the Minister. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U100	Thank you for your answer. Since this answer was not written, it remained a little round. I fully support the establishment of such a procedure and the establishment of common criteria for the allocation of funds, which was discussed here. But then it turns out there's still subjectivity. There's gonna be a committee that's gonna screw this whole thing up in a way. I have a score table in front of me, where the Estonian Yachting Association is beautifully the third place, as you said. He has one point less than the Estonian Ski Association, but skiing received 82000 euros, sailing 44000. That maybe sailing gets more money from the competitions and other money added to the third reading, but not added to the other sports federations, I don't know, I can't comment because I don't have that money table in front of me. The question is whether it would be possible to see the table showing how the money was distributed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U101	Thank you for this question. Absolutely possible. I'm sorry I didn't come here right away with that written text!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U102	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U103	Good manager! Good minister! I'm interested in the Estonian Ice Skate Association. I understand that their support increased by 30%. The Skate Association deals with two areas: ice skating and speed skating. Does the distribution of money take into account that there is no speed skating trail in Estonia and that athletes must exercise outside Estonia? The only artificial path is Adaveres, but it's not fully dimensional. Can you tell me what that amount is and is there a separate distribution for figure skating and speed skating?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U104	Thank you very much for your question. I'm afraid I'm going to have a little trouble commenting on the fact that practice can only be done outside of Estonia. Sport invests all the time. You know how much investment has been made in sport. If there are shortcomings here, they must be eliminated in the future. The Estonian Skate Association is in the first group, which includes the Olympics. He's got 23 points, and the money's in here. However, the grant has increased compared to the 2013 grant. The second area you asked about was speed skating. [[Interjection.]] Yeah. Unfortunately, there is no distribution of the sub-unions in this table, but I would like to specify it for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U105	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The inquiry has been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U106	The fifth inquiry, made by members of the Riigikogu Andrus Saare, Siim Kiisler, Sven Sester, Margus Tsahkna, Toomas Tõniste, Annely Akkermann, Marko Mihkelson, Aivar Riisalu, Peeter Laurson, Marko Pomerants, Helir-Valdor Seeder and Urmas Reinsalu, is about light fuel oil and specially labelled diesel. In the name of the heirs, Andrus Saare will be at the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! On 16 October, on behalf of 12 members of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica, I briefed Urve Palo, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. The inquiry concerns amendments to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels, which will enter into force on 1 January 2015, according to which from 1 January the containers may no longer contain light fuel oil and all its residues must be returned. On 1 May 2015, the same ban will apply to specially labelled diesel. Both in the course of the draft legislation and later on, we have been assured that the state does not actually have a sufficient overview of the real effects of the changes, not to mention the plan to contribute to the upgrading of heating systems that have used light fuel oil so far. According to the explanatory memorandum, these changes concern more than 200 apartment buildings, over 180 boiler houses with specially labelled fuel, owned by local authorities, and around 2 000 small buildings, depending on the information in the building register. But since there is no real overview, you could say that this number could be twice as large. However, it is certain that a legislative amendment will lead to a 38% increase in prices. On the higher taxation of their families and households, the state wants to earn at least EUR 13 million in the 2015 budget. However, there is no line in the state budget from which, in such a short period of time, support can be applied for the conversion of space heaters for boiler buildings in apartment buildings or local authorities. Yes, it is permissible to support the upgrading of private home space heaters through KredEx, but these amounts are small and do not satisfy the real needy. Our three questions are as follows: The first concerns possible measures. What support does the state provide to municipalities, private individuals and housing associations? Secondly, the law provides that those holding light fuel oil on 1 January or diesel specially labelled after 1 May are obliged to dispose of it, i.e. sell it back to the person who sold the fuel or to the excise warehousekeeper. In examining the situation, however, it turns out that there is really no mention of disposal. If you want to return fuel oil or diesel fuel, it is called decommissioning and must be paid separately so that it becomes twice as expensive. Perhaps an absurd, controversial situation has arisen where law and practice are two different things. In the last question, we want to know whether the time between the adoption of the law, i.e. 1 July 2014 and the entry into force of the law, is sufficient, according to the Minister, for people, housing associations and local authorities to be able to switch to other heating sources, or whether it would be reasonable to postpone the entry into force of the law. Of course, it would be even better if the government proposed to abolish the law. We expect meaningful answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U108	Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U109	Good evening. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to answer the questions outlined above. I'm gonna go on question by question, and I'm gonna answer every question right now. The first question: 'Do and what national measures are in place today so that local authorities, private individuals and housing associations can quickly rebuild heating systems using light fuel oil? ' In the field of heating and heat and electricity generation, the use of preferential fuels will be replaced by support schemes financed by revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota, the European Union's structural instruments and the money from environmental charges. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we have developed the conditions and procedures for support for the deployment of renewable energy from small homes and the modernisation of heating systems. The Regulation entered into force on 28 November. The purpose of the support is to replace small house liquid fuel boiler equipment with space heaters using renewable energy sources. Support for the transition to renewable energy solutions can be applied for in authorised buildings, such as single houses, twin houses, terraced houses and other two apartments, which are used for permanent housing and are heated with fuel oil. The acquisition and installation of a space heater, including design, shall be supported where the space heater is installed under a support measure. The Regulation does not provide a definition of a space heater. The term covers all space heaters producing heat from renewable energy sources, including boiler equipment, heat pumps, water contour ovens and solar thermal installations. The rate of support shall be up to 40% of the eligible costs for supported activities and the maximum amount of support shall be EUR 4000 per applicant. It can be applied for by anyone who has authorised dwellings and uses fuel oil for heating purposes. No income restrictions have been imposed on the application. The support measure is financed by revenue from the sale of CO2 quota in 2014 and 2017 in accordance with the State Budget Strategy 2015-2018. In 2008, a total of EUR 5 million, of which EUR 3.2 million has been estimated for the following year. We have analysed that if all dwellings, be they terraced houses or single houses, where oil heating is currently used, would apply for state support, then seven million euros would be needed. We have estimated EUR 5 million precisely because we never apply for aid all, not all replace boilers, etc. Therefore, this money should, in any case, be sufficient. If there is such a miracle that everyone is seeking, the country will be able to find more money. This is not foreseen at the moment. The transfer of light fuel boiler equipment from housing associations to renewable fuel is supported through the KIK programme. These applications are evaluated by the KIC twice a year. The evaluation of proposals shall be based on the consistency with the objectives of the programme. Funding shall be provided from the budget of the approved sectoral programme, up to 50% of the cost of environmental charges. Entrepreneurs can also participate in the programme. In addition, the reconstruction support measure for apartment buildings, which provides EUR 102 million from the European Union's structural funds for the next seven years, is about to be completed. In addition to housing cooperatives, the target group of the measure is local authorities, which can use the measure as a whole for apartment buildings belonging to them. The primary objective of the measure is to increase the energy efficiency of apartment buildings while contributing to the transition to renewable energy sources. For example, replacement, reconstruction or balancing of the heating system is supported during reconstruction works of the apartment building. In the case of reconstruction operations, supported activities shall achieve at least energy efficiency class E and shall ensure, inter alia, the internal climate requirements set out. Depending on the extent to which savings are achieved, up to 40% of the expenditure can be made available to the state. Ida-Viru County has 10% more here, which means the maximum is 50%, because Ida-Viru County is a government priority. In the previous period, there were very few housing associations in Ida-Virumaa who applied for this allowance. Now we want to give them more support so that housing associations start applying for this support. The draft measure is at an advanced stage of development. He will definitely go to coordination during this month, this year. The housing associations are looking forward to it. The financing of a public energy efficiency measure depends on the revenue generated by trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances within the European Union. According to Annex 6 to the National Budget Strategy 2015-2018, this measure is currently planned at a small scale of just over EUR 3 million and in larger volumes from 2017. In addition, the Riigikogu is currently preparing a draft law on district heating. If this law is adopted, there will be an additional EUR 80 million that can be applied for both by local authorities for their district heating area and by other district heating areas, including those belonging to the private sector, in order to switch to more modern and environmentally friendly fuel. Both gas boilers and oil boilers can be replaced. There are proper support schemes; they are granted through KIC. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has drawn up this bill in its time. The second question: 'The law stipulates that a person holding light fuel oil on 1 January or diesel specially labelled on 1 May is obliged to dispose of it to the person who sold the fuel or to the excise warehousekeeper. Is and at what price are the latter obliged to buy back this fuel and who will bear the cost of transporting the fuel? ' Where possible, specially labelled liquid fuel should be consumed before the end of its right to use it, i.e. before 1 May, and its residues should be avoided. That's the first thing we recommend. It is likely that the transferor will receive significantly less money in the transfer of excess fuel than had to be paid by purchasing that fuel. In addition, the buyer may have doubts about the quality of the fuel remaining in the tank for an indefinite period. The price of the fuel to be exported has not been set by the legislator, which is agreed between the buyer and the seller. The costs of the withdrawal shall normally be borne by the transferor, unless a different agreement is reached between the buyer and the seller. It is possible to pump fuel out of all containers, in compliance with environmental safety requirements. The pumping-out tube can be used for the boiler. Of course, this requires certain work involving financial costs. The transition period is quite long, it still lasts until 1 May, and by then winter will be behind us. I assume that since home boiler houses are generally not very large, they will have used up specially labelled fuel by then. The third question: "Do you consider that the time between the adoption of the Act (1 July 2014) and its entry into force is sufficient for people, housing associations and local authorities to be able to switch to other heating sources, or should the entry into force of the Act be postponed? In laying down the time limits for amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Act amending the Law on specific labelling of liquid fuels, the explanatory memorandum to this draft law refers to the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice that special-purpose diesel can be used for heating and electricity production up to 2014/15. Until the end of the heating period of 2008. This period ends in the spring. Therefore, consumers of oil heating do not need to plan to replace the boiler equipment quickly, but can design and implement changes within a reasonable time. The new heating period starts at the end of September or October 2015, so there is time to change boilers if you want to, and to ask for money. By then, the measure will certainly work well. In essence, most of those who use specially labelled fuel as an energy source will only increase the price of fuel during the new heating period. I am of the opinion that the state has set up support measures and allocates money that people using liquid fuel can use to modernise their heating systems if they themselves take the initiative to do so. Indeed, there are a number of measures that can be used by private individuals, regardless of their income, as well as by housing associations and municipalities. The transition from one type of heating to another always requires certain problems to be resolved, that is clear. However, it should be borne in mind that technical issues and inconvenience do not become null and void by delaying the changes. At some point, we're gonna have to set that date. The first snow is always unexpected for roadkeepers. So no matter how long we postpone this deadline, a year or two, this date of entry into force still brings some inconvenience to people. So much for an introduction. Now I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U110	Questions for the Minister. Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U111	Thank you for your answers to the Minister. I'll keep going. I understood from your answers that the private house measure is going to apply immediately, but all the other steps. My question concerns public buildings. For example, schools, museums, and libraries can be located in manor buildings and buildings protected by heritage. I have been approached by several people who, according to heritage conservation requirements, have replaced electric heating with oil-fired heating. Now it is said that oil heating must be switched to pellet heating, for example. Many of these buildings, however, do not suffer conversion because there is no extra space and heritage protection does not allow the boiler to be replaced simply because more space is needed. CO2 money is unlikely to be received before 2017. I don't know if you can build new rooms or if there are boiler houses. What message do you give to those companies, institutions and municipalities who have these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U112	Thank you. You are talking about buildings that are protected by heritage and where there is an oil boiler house. I've got oil heating at home, too. I've been thinking about replacing it for the last five years, but I haven't gotten to what I'm doing, and it's just because it's so expensive. In fact, oil heating, which competes with electric heating, is one of the most expensive types of heating at all, if not the most expensive. Times have changed, it wasn't like that in the old days. If the country now loses the special mark, it will treat all types of fuel equally. If we're looking at our local fuel, chipped-wood boilers, then the state doesn't pay anything directly. However, when the state used special fuel labelling, or asked for much less excise duty, it was as if it favoured this type of fuel. Maybe it was necessary in its time, because then the technology wasn't as advanced as it is now. Let me give you the same example: if there is an oil boiler house in the old house, it can be replaced with an air heat pump that does not take more space and heats water. Apart from being placed in a room to blow, it is possible that the air heat pump will be placed in the boiler house in place of an oil boiler, and it will warm the water there. I'm not a specialist in this field, but I've studied it for my own use. I know this pump won't take up any more space, and it shouldn't be a problem for heritage conservation either. True, a first-time investment requires start-up capital, I agree with that. We have calculated that even if the state did not provide support, switching the boiler to an air heating pump, for example, would pay off in about five years. If the State supports 40%, it can be assumed that the payback period will be shorter. In any case, the organization or person pays because oil heating is very expensive. It is quite reasonable that the state does not make such an expensive form of heating using imported fuel, nor does it help people to prefer this expensive type of fuel, but, on the contrary, increasingly use the whip and carrot method, so that people switch to a much more sustainable, energy-efficient, cheaper and locally based fuel type.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U113	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U114	Good manager! Good minister! I'll start from a distance. First of all, you said that next year, five million euros will be distributed from CO2 money to private homes. I think this is a pretty big bluff, because CO2 quotas have not been sold this year, they cannot be sold next year or the next year. I would like to see the line in the budget where this five million euro is still written. No minister in this hall has ever been able to tell me what kind of heater is good. You're talking about heating a house with a heat pump. This morning it couldn't have been heated, because even the best heat pumps need more electric heating in this weather. We are talking today about the gas terminal and routes, but can we not talk about the fact that gas boiler houses are still the most consumer-friendly? The rest of the heating equipment other than solar cells pollute the air. Should this measure not have the option that...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U115	Now it might be a question, because time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U116	... oil-fired boilerhouses turn gas boilers into boilerhouses? If gas routes are to be built somewhere, then it could be possible to use these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U117	Thank you. There were several questions. The first one was about resources. As I said, the proceeds from the sale of the CO2 quota, the structural funds of the European Union, as well as from environmental charges, will be financed. There are several sources here. This is EUR 3.2 million in the 2015 budget and the remaining money has been distributed over 2016 and 2017, with a total of EUR 5 million. We're just following the practice of not asking for money in the first year. However, the exceptional excise duty on gas will also be abolished, namely because it is not reasonable to encourage imported fuels and their use at national level. If people want to use them, it is an opportunity, but the state should not be particularly encouraging. Rather, people should be directed to increasingly use wood chips and pellets. It is a domestic production that is more favourable and, in addition, it creates jobs in rural areas when producers have where to sell their produce. For example, a few months ago, Tallinn Heating published a press release that when they switch from gas to wood chips in Tallinn to heating, the consumer's direct victory is 20%, i.e. as a result of the transition from gas to wood chips, people's heat bills are 20% cheaper. There is no point, however, in supporting national measures, one can say, the warm economy of yesterday, which is gas. The use of gas is not prohibited, but it is not a modern and thinking solution for tomorrow's day. We have a lot of wood resources, and there are other opportunities. But when we talk about the district heating law, which helps municipalities that own a lot of schools, kindergartens and other institutions, it has to be said that municipalities are going to receive very much support from the state, KIK, so that their expensive and yesterday's district heating boiler houses can be redesigned as boiler houses using wood chips.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U118	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U119	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I agree that the country needs money and that the country's trouble is huge all the time. However, in the Riigikogu and also in the government, the sensible practice of lawmaking should be taken into account. Forgive me, but the part of the so-called barrel pumping out of this law seems so absurd for a reasonable person who actually interacts with life that we cry. How can such foolishness be recorded in a law? Can you imagine, for example, a 1,000-litre plastic container? Fuel taxi's about eight-ton car. It comes in and starts pumping 80 or 100 litres of fuel out of that fuel barrel. His hose has a minimum diameter of 50 millimetres. The fuel that the car can't reach will be taken out with buckets and canisters through the tube that goes into the burner. Don't you think we've completely lost our minds? Such laws should not be made. I agree that it will apply...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U120	Time, time, time! The question was already there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U121	The question was yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U122	Thank you very much. Of course it's complicated. At some point, this date must be set, and from this moment on it must be possible to oblige people to comply with the law. But it's true that control doesn't make it to every home. Therefore, when setting the deadline, we have not only taken into account that people can survive the heating period ahead at an old price, but also that people are more likely to be able to take advantage of the specially labelled fuel. But how would all this work? After 1 May, special fuel may be used, but the correct excise duty must be paid. If the residue is less than 100 litres and the fuel is intended to be used itself, the excise difference must be paid off. If it is not recommended to pay it or the fuel residue exceeds 100 litres and is not recommended to use it yourself, then the fuel must be returned to the seller. It won't come into play until then. It's controlled by the Tax and Customs Board. What else can I say? As an alternative, a natural person is able to pay excise duty on the difference between the amount of excise duty on specially labelled fuel and the amount of excise duty on diesel after 1 May 2015 when he holds less than 100 litres of specially labelled fuel. The natural person shall be obliged to measure the quantity of specially labelled fuel in his possession in such a way that the traceability of the results of the measurements need not be verified, to submit an excise declaration to the tax authorities and to pay the excise duty no later than one month later, by 1 June. That's the transition period.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U123	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A representative of the Ministry of Finance visited the Finance Committee and presented the action to be taken. He said that this measure could be used once the heat audit of the building and the heat resistance has been checked. If the heat resistance is poor, the house must first be insulated and then a 15% allowance can be granted to replace the fireplace, and it must have been possible to obtain 40% to heat the house. Your answer was that 40% of the aid can be granted to replace the fireplace. Did the representative of the Ministry of Finance lie in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, if so, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U125	I think we are talking about different measures. As for private homes, two-family homes, terraced houses and other such buildings, here is exactly what I said. We have developed and adopted this measure. It is precisely that 40% is the maximum percentage and the maximum amount of EUR 4000, no heat audit or anything like that is necessary. Maybe the Treasury Department official told me about the apartment building program. That's what I was talking about earlier, too. The housing programme provides EUR 102 million for the next seven years. The focus is on making the apartments warm, but also on improving the indoor climate so that the mistakes that were made in the old days were not made when the house was insulated, but the rooms were clogged and the ventilation was so bad that it was dangerous to health. The State should not encourage such activities. More attention has now been paid to the indoor climate so that the ventilation can be repaired. However, under this measure, an apartment building or a cooperative can also apply for the conversion of the heating system. I owe you an answer right now. I know these percentages are different depending on the outcome. The maximum is 40%, 50% in Ida-Virumaa, but this support may also be lower. I think the clerk talked about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U126	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U127	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! It has become very specific, and different types and possibilities of heating have come into play. Air heating cannot produce hot water, but it can be done with air heating. But that's it. This is the right step to switch from gas to chips. Thanks to KIK's help, this was also possible in Põlva. There more than 20% of the heating costs were saved and now all this money is left in Estonia. I am sorry that this programme has been stretched so long and so little supported. This should be a primary objective to support heating with wood chips and pellets. They can be obtained from Estonia and the money will remain in Estonia. The use of gas and liquid fuel should certainly not be encouraged. But the main thing is that time is so short and people don't have the money to rebuild boilers. It would be wise to extend this deadline by one year. What do you think? People just can't do it that fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U128	Thank you. How long does a person collect money? A year or two, but maybe it'll take five years to get your share together. I admit that the participation is not small at all and there is a high probability that a person may even have to acquire additional resources for a period of time. But, as I said, the payback period is again relatively short, because heating bills will be much more favourable. Obviously, the question remains whether this period should be the same as it is now, or a year or two years longer. But on the other hand, if we do this faster, we're gonna motivate people to reconfigure heating systems faster by the whip and carrot method. Such decisions have now been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U129	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U130	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Today's day of questioning has been extremely emotional because there have been issues under discussion that really speak to people. What you're denying is sometimes the impression that for a lot of things, a good goal with a sloppy exercise is the wrong word, that's too cruel, that's what I don't want to use, let's just say that with thoughtless implementation, the child is thrown out with the washing water. It's clear that the country needs money, no one's arguing about it. Excise goods are one of the clearest ways to raise money for the state. We live in the north and the heating costs are quite important in our expenses. I've been a victim myself. At the end of the 1990s, the state of Estonia spoke about electricity as a domestic type of heating, and everyone could choose electric heating. At the time, I renovated an old manor house and put an electric heater in it. For the rest of my life, I have had to bitterly regret it. But there's not enough money left to renovate the estate and put some other heat in it. After all, all the floors, old historical floors should be torn up in order to put floor heating or whatever. Unfortunately, this manor does not have a cellar to install a pellet boiler. To do that, a modern boiler house should be built at the manor. It is always reasonable to go in the general direction personally by giving examples. Just like that, I'm one of the victims of oil heating. Some time ago, about 15 years ago, it was a relatively reasonable way of heating for me, for the simple reason that I was selling fuel myself. The list could be continued. There are many reasons why people make one decision or another. I'm gonna take three more minutes, 'cause this is what I'm talking about right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U131	Three more minutes, 'cause we're talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U132	The legislator has now figured out how to increase heating prices by 38% for a specific and relatively narrow target group. To alleviate this, the state has planned a fantastic amount of measures of all kinds. I'm asking you where's the economic point here. Let's try to understand. After all, due to normal economic pressure, the share of oil heating has been reduced completely, in a good way, and people are switching to more reasonable heating methods. Why do we have to make a law that, first, violates society's sense of justice? The price increase of 38%, even if it concerns only a few thousand subjects or households or units, is not reasonable because it gives the impression that the country is twitching, all the more so because the benefits are actually put back in the same place as it is anyway. I also agree that if the country shows generosity and supports this transitional programme, then the sum of the sum can be said to be a good thing. But if I read about this law's method of repayment of scraps, frankly, this whole good idea, I'm sorry, but here I dare say it, it disappears into stupidity. Fuel, as we know, is something we could use. That is what the Minister wisely said that hopefully no one will have anything left by 1 May. But if it is, tell me, please, if the excise duty on this fuel has not been paid, will a person start drinking, selling or doing anything stupid with it? No, he'll heat it up in the next heating season. I think we'd look a lot more intelligent in the eyes of society if we didn't write such stupid laws. If there is no more specially labelled fuel on the market from one point on, because it simply does not exist, it is gone, then it will end in these homes as well. It's as simple as that. If someone achieves some sort of temporary price success in one way or another, because he had a leftover at home, let him have his little victory. The two-way operation of the state and the citizen is a series of small victories, and there is nothing to be done. I don't want to point a finger at anyone, but I dare say that quite often it can happen that when a person who works on a big dumpler left 20 litres of diesel in the tank at night, he lets it in the canister, runs home, pours his boiler in the tank and lives again for a week. There will be no tax, or it will come from somewhere else. Let's be honest, lawmaking should be sensible, it should be thought out. It must not be so strange that it makes a practical person, who actually has to administer this law, raise his eyebrows. It wasn't for nothing that I described the nature of a fuel truck to a good minister. Man can't get the fuel out of there. That's not possible. Environmental pollution may occur around a number of houses, as the bucket goes around or the tube runs down fuel or whatever it takes. You shouldn't do such stupid things. I agree, by the way, that behind this law, the ears of pellet producers also appear quite clearly. Remember the following words that Aivar Riisalu, a modest member of the Riigikogu, says on 1 December 2014. This pellet propaganda is causing the price of pellets intended for heating to rise in the coming years at about the same rate as the price of oil has risen, for example, at present, as a temporary drop in the price of diesel fuel. But believe me, this rise will be even faster. This is for the simple reason that pellet production is very energy-intensive and is done in quite specific places. Minced wood may be a sensible option, but it is difficult to use at home. The Pellets we are promoting are, at some point, virtually at the same price as oil. Remember those words. Then we have betrayed our people once again. We gave up electricity a long time ago, now we're giving up oil, then we're giving up pellets. What happens next, nobody knows. But in any case, I dare tell you that laws must be made, but they must be done wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U133	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U134	Good manager! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, By listening to these questions and answers, there was a need to come here before you. We are constantly talking about the fact that everything that comes from outside Estonia is bad. I should say then, friends, do not drive home today because, unfortunately, oil has not yet been found in Estonia and we still have to bring petrol and diesel fuel elsewhere. Whether it's coming from Russia or somewhere else, it's coming from somewhere. We are talking about buying more than 50% of the gas lines, starting to build terminals and trying to connect Finland and Estonia to gas pipelines. At the same time, we hear that the gas is very bad. Why, then, is the state making such investments? Who's he making them for? Over 30 million euros of shares were bought to get half of Estonia's main gas pipelines. For a large number of millions, the European Union funds plan to connect Finland and Estonia to gas pipelines. It is said that gas routes from Lithuania should also get here beautifully. And then we still say it's bad. Does the state have the right to impose the tax burden on people that it is currently doing? I think it's actually, I dare say, malicious. What has happened in Estonia in the last 20 years was described here by Aivar Riisalu. In the mid - 1990's, all boiler houses were transferred to electric heating. I myself come from Jõgeva parish, where there were many central boiler houses. People could not pay for the heat, and every year the debt grew to millions. We took out central boiler houses, took the gas lines to the apartment buildings with money, and people built gas boilers in the buildings. Fuel costs decreased by almost half. I can't imagine how now, in the middle of the villages, they're going to build pellet boilers and big storage facilities. How would it look? There's talk of wood chips. It is forgotten that it was only recently that wood chips were produced. So what was the price of the wood? The price of one fuel rose sharply. Now let's try to tell the same story again that the best thing is pellet heating or air heating or earth heating. We know that with air heating we can cool the summer and warm the room in September, but that's the end of it. When we talk about investment in ground heating, these amounts are considerably higher than the construction of any other boiler house. Unfortunately, it is not possible to build ground heating everywhere, there must be land and it must be one where pipes can be laid, or there must be enough money to drill proper wells. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U135	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U136	With ground heating, we try to do what others have done, but we forget that large parts of the city are heated in Sweden, but wells are drilled there to a depth of 500 to 600 metres, and then there is really an effect. We have ground heating pipes placed a metre deep, and in the fifth year, we see that there is a permafrost around the pipes. Now people buy solar panels to melt it up in the summer. These fruits are still coming, but still we're saying something's wrong. How is it possible that the same Riigikogu, which has been elected by the people, and the same government, which has been confirmed by the same Riigikogu, raises the cost of some kind of fuel almost overnight, by 38%, or by 40%, of excise duty? Why does the state decide for me what I'm heating up? It always tortures me when people say the gas is bad and the gas is expensive. I think that if you don't know how to put the right boilers in the gas boiler house, the heat is really expensive. I have invested in gas boiler houses in my companies, in my region and in my home. No other fuel has been able to compete with them. Let me decide what I'm gonna do to heat my house. Let the country not decide that it has to increase the excise duty on one, another or third fuel insanely or something like that. How do you look into the eyes of those people who are gonna heat up oil next autumn with a 40% increase in excise duty? Now it is said that with 40% support, people can replace boilers. EUR 4000 is the limit, which means that EUR 10000 is taken into account. Members of the Riigikogu, yes, can afford it, but 75% of people in Estonia receive less pay than the Estonian average. I don't think these people have enough money at home in their stockings or at the bank to make that boiler change. Because of the salary they receive, no bank wants to lend, because the house always means expenditure and the heating costs are the highest in the domestic costs. I dare say on behalf of the IRL Group that if the IRL comes to power in the spring of next year, it will be the first law to be withdrawn. There must be no such criminal situation in Estonia that certain people are given such a high tax burden simply because it is believed that this will result in 13 million euros in the income of the state. However, if we think otherwise, if these boilers are no longer available, where will the benefits come from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U137	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to speak further. Would you like a minister? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U138	The sixth question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Mailis Reps, Siret Kotka, Priit Toobal, Vladimir Velman, Viktor Vassilyev and Tarmo Tamm. This question is about ferry traffic. Enn Frontland will perform on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U139	Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with this inquiry being made on 20 October. Today is December 1st, thank God. This is one of the places where time changes things faster than we can foresee in matters. However, since the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has taken into account the issues we have here, I am sure he will also make adjustments to his answers. That is why I will read to you earlier, at least the Preamble, which will take us back to mid-October when the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications issued the information that the Ministry organized the ferry connection on Rohuküla-Heltermaa and Virtsu made the best offer for AS Tallinna Sadm subsidiaries TS Laevad OÜ and TS Shipping OÜ. As a result of the procurement, by 1 October next year, four new ferry ships were to reach the routes Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, two on both routes. Unfortunately, clarity and satisfaction lasted only for a short time. The Ministry of Finance now has a new Minister of Finance in office on the evening of 15 October, he sent a draft decision to the Ministry you manage, stating that the negotiated tender is null and void. The Ministry of Finance takes the view that the annulment of the procurement procedure pursuant to § 108 (2) of the Public Procurement Act is justified as the contracting authority has violated the Public Procurement Act throughout the procurement procedure by awarding a public procurement procedure without prior publication of a contract notice in the form of a negotiated procedure without any legal basis. The Ministry of Finance considers that Väinamere Liinid OÜ's bid was not fundamentally different from the tender terms and therefore the Procurement Committee should not have declared it non-compliant or initiated a negotiated tender. Good Minister, we had four questions for you. Most important of them, but what is not on this paper is what we are in now and what are the prospects for the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U140	Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U141	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, three brave ones! Oh, the fourth one's coming, too. Thanks for the questions. The truth is that it is not in every area that changes so much with a month or a half. In ferry traffic, however, changes have indeed taken place. Let's take a slow look at the questions and then we can talk about the current situation. The first question is the draft decision sent by the Ministry of Finance. This would give the impression that they were not involved in the ferry connection procurement. You are asking whether and to what extent specialists from the Ministry of Finance were involved in the procurement. In reply, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has had regular oral and written contact with the Ministry of Finance during the procurement process. We've traded a lot for us. The Ministry of Finance has, among other things, approved the procurement documents and the qualification conditions prior to the opening of the open tender procedure. The Ministry of Finance has subsequently been consulted on a number of specific issues, such as how to understand the expression 'no change in the terms of public procurement', etc. Indeed, there have been many written consultations and contacts. True, there were no officials from the Ministry of Finance in the Procurement Committee, but we had continuous cooperation outside of it. The second question: 'One point of dispute is declaring the Väinamere Line offer invalid, which allowed the opening of a negotiated contract with the Port of Tallinn. Why do you consider that the Väinameriline offer did not meet the terms of the tender? ' First of all, I state that the Ministry of Finance has not questioned whether Väinamere Liinid OÜ's bid met the terms of the tender. This means that the question has not been whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs should have accepted Väinamere Liinid OÜ's offer. The question was whether the deficiencies of the tender were such that the tender was essentially not in conformity with the technical specifications of the subject-matter of the procurement. I note that according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the offer submitted by Väinamere Liinid OÜ had a number of extremely important shortcomings that did not allow the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to award a contract without violating the Public Procurement Act. The tenderer had failed to submit a number of the documents we requested and had submitted his terms and conditions. This is not allowed in an open tender procedure under the Public Procurement Act; the contracting participant cannot set its conditions for participation in the procurement procedure. The specific conditions for public procurement are set and must be met by the tender. In addition, I explain that the invitation to tender in the negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice was not only addressed to the Port of Tallinn and its subsidiary, but also to Väinameri Liinid OÜ. Therefore, as a result of the open tender procedure, Väinamere Liinid OÜ's tender did not meet the conditions of the tender and, if it was given the opportunity to match the tender, it did not do so, but later, when it participated in the second tender, it had eliminated all the deficiencies. By participating in the second procurement Väinamere Liinid OÜ qualified and its offer was also recognised as eligible as a subsidiary of the Port of Tallinn. He did not win simply because his offer was much more expensive. The third question: 'The total amount of aid to be paid to the Port of Tallinn is about 60 million less than the amount of aid to be paid in the event of a competitive offer. Although such savings should please the Minister of Finance, the impression is that they are trying to create confusion and cancel the procurement. What is your assessment of the situation? How do you assess your cooperation with the Minister of Finance? ' Yes, indeed, the Minister of Finance has changed today, but what can I say other than that there was really a lot of confusion, a lot of confusion that doesn't make sense. I'll admit it. But I have no choice but to believe that it was simply a mess and, just as it was for the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is very important for the Ministry of Finance to save public money and use it for its purpose. It's important to all ministries. I would like to hope that the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, which took place in the meantime in this procurement, was, however, a normal practice. This monitoring procedure has now been completed and the Ministry of Finance has confirmed that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has acted correctly in the tender procedure and that the selection of the negotiated procedure without prior publication was legitimate. Therefore, in addition to our own opinion, we also have the opinion of the specialists of the Ministry of Finance that the choice of the type of procurement was entirely correct. We had this assessment earlier anyway, as a result of consultations, but now we also have an independent review of the Ministry of Finance. You can't ask this department for an assessment. The fourth question: 'The Centre Party is committed to ensuring free ferrying for the giants and islanders by 2017, as this would contribute to the regional development of Estonia. How do you feel about this idea? ' The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has already introduced an important advantage for island residents on ferry routes. You know that for islanders, both passenger tickets and over-travels are 50% cheaper than the so-called "normal" price. For example, in 2013-2014. According to the 2003 figures, permanent residents paid EUR 1.33 million for their journeys, excluding VAT. This could be the order of magnitude by which the aid should be increased if the journey were free of charge. We must take into account that this amount may increase, as people may start to sign in to Saaremaa and Hiiumaa to get a discount, just as has happened in Tallinn. Of course, the municipalities of Saare- ja Hiiumaa would benefit from this because the income tax would then be paid to the municipalities, but we must take into account that the required amount may therefore be much higher than 1.33 million euros. If this amount does not come directly from the state budget but is covered by the ticket money paid by other passengers, the price increase would be around 20%. Surely this benefit should apply to giants and islanders, but what about people living on other islands, such as Vormsil, Kihnu and Ruhnu? We must treat everyone in our country equally. The inhabitants of other islands should also be screened and given the same right. It would also be desirable for users of other modes of transport to benefit from this advantage in other regions. The question arises as to why this benefit applies only to ferry routes, but not to all Elron routes or bus routes across Estonia. All of this would significantly increase the need for state budget resources. That has to be taken into account. I believe that it is normal practice to have a certain proportion of the fee borne by the consumer. I think it's perfectly normal. I'll give you an example of the neighborhood of Tallinn. If a person in Tallinn pays one euro for travelling on Elron's train or this trip is free of charge because it is paid by Tallinn if the person is a resident of Tallinn, then the state will actually pay 2.2 euros for it. It's exactly the same with the ferry. Even if I, who am not an islander, travel to Saaremaa or Hiiumaa and buy a full ticket, the state will pay many times more for this journey. Public transport in Estonia is heavily subsidised, all bus, train and ferry routes are subsidised. In addition, according to the Public Transport Act, some people also have the right to travel free of charge across Estonia. These are pre-school children and accompanying disabled children, persons with a deep disability of 16 years and older and persons with deep or severe visual impairment. In addition, guide dogs accompanying visually impaired persons can drive free of charge. Yeah, or you're gonna have to buy a ticket for the dog. So there are benefits. However, if we are talking about ferrying, so that the local citizen should no longer have any ownership, then we should look at Estonia as a whole and also at other modes of transport. Finally, it will be paid by the taxpayer. Where does that public money come from other than from the taxpayer's wallet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U142	Questions for the Minister. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U143	Thank you very much. Before I say the question, we think that this system should also cover Vormsi, Kihnu and other smaller islands, we did not just mean the great islands. But at least for the giants, but also for many islanders, there is a problem with the interconnector between these islands, the Sõru-Traigi line. Right now, the ferry is running on this line for over a day. The locals have rightly pointed out on several occasions that if possible, this connection should be tightened. They think, and we think, that this community should be daily because many giants work in Saaremaa and have difficulty getting to work and home. This is one thing that is expected and which the Estonian state should consider seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U144	Thank you. I agree with you. In addition, a ferry operating on this route should be updated as it is old. The fact that this is planned in the budgets of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is certain. If I'm not mistaken, the call for tenders has already been announced, and I think even the winner of the call for tenders has found out who's going to build this ship. So this process is a long way off. But yes, I agree with you that this connection should be regular, everyday. When the new ferry's ready, we'll have plans like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U145	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U146	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! I think it's very good that coalition partners change from time to time. I think one good example here is that they were able to create proper competition. If this EUR 60 million is saved, then honour and praise to the Socialists. Even if it is not 60 million euros, but 30 million euros, I think it is also a very large sum. I think that government partners could be exchanged from time to time, which is good for the Estonian state. But my question is that the islanders have been put in an unequal position. If I'm going from Põlva to Tallinn, I don't have to pay anything, but if the person living on the island comes from Kuressaare to Tallinn, he has to. This would be one way to make the situation even. The amount of the dose is 1.33 million euros. If it is also 1.53 million euros, then this is not the amount that is too much for the Estonian state. The islanders could be exempt from buying a ferry ticket. That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U147	Thank you. I didn't understand how you'd get into free Põlva. If you're taking a bus, you still have to buy a ticket. [[Interjection.]] Oh, yeah! It's not zero. Your suggestion is that those whose home is, figuratively speaking, Põlva or islands should be able to travel free of charge. You still have to pay to get to Põlva, but this is a discount because it is subsidised, just like the ferry connection to Hiiu and Saaremaa, the subsidy amount is pretty big. Well, there's a difference of opinion. As far as savings are concerned, I just want to say, for clarification or the sake of the truth, that there is no other option here. EUR 60 million is savings, not on the knee, but on the procurement. If Väinamere Liinid OÜ had won, the contract for the next ten years would have been such that the operating fee is 60 million euros higher than the operating fee for the Port of Tallinn. The Port of Tallinn and the Väinamere Lines competed on equal terms and both have to comply with their contracts. Perhaps it is good to explain the difference between this, when it is 60 and when it is 30 million euros. 60 million euros would be the case if the state paid the operating fee for 10 years to either the Port of Tallinn or the Väinamere Lines, it would pay 60 million euros less to one. EUR 30 million is due to the fact that if the state wanted to use the right to buy out ferry vessels at the end of the tenth year, the residual value of Väinamere Liners would be less than the total savings of EUR 30 million over those years, rather than EUR 60 million. However, if the ferry is owned by a State company, the question arises as to whether it makes any sense to buy them out. It was written in order to protect the next minister so that he would not be in the same position in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U148	Thank you. No further questions. Any requests? No, it's not. The inquiry has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-01_U149	The free microphone's over. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 6.40 p.m.
