ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. In that case, we'll do a presence check. Seventy-one members of the Riigikogu are currently registered as present and there are no 30 members of the Riigikogu. Let's clarify the agenda. Today's third item of the agenda, the Riigikogu's decision "Revocation of a member of the National Opera Council and appointment of a new member', presented by the Committee on Culture, will be presented by Lauri Luik at the first reading debate. Today's seventh item, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel 682 will be presented at the first reading by the Committee on Monetary Affairs by Rannar Vassilyev. Today's eighth item, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is being discussed at first reading by Remo Holsmer. Aivar Sõerd will make a presentation of the Finance Committee at the discussion of the ninth item on today's agenda, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U2	Now we are going to discuss today's agenda items. The first issue is Eesti Pank's annual report for 2013. I'll introduce you to the procedure. First, the President of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson, has the floor. His report is up to 20 minutes. Questions can then be asked to the rapporteur. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. Subsequent negotiations. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U3	Thank you. For a long time now, I have had the desire to ask a procedural question. Yesterday we discussed at length what to do with the points on the tax laws on today's agenda. Is there a request from the Committee on Monetary Affairs for the Bureau to withdraw them from the agenda, or is everything going to be as it was? As we know, preparations for the first reading were ongoing in the Commission; the Commission did not have time to discuss these points. Has the Bureau received any further information on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U4	Additional information has been received by the Bureau who will make presentations during the discussion on these items. We fixed the agenda yesterday. I will continue to present the first item on the agenda. Finally, there are negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. I would like to ask Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U5	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today I present to you a summary of the activities of Eesti Pank in 2013. I will start with an overview of the euro area economy and monetary policy, I will focus on the euro area and Estonia's economic policy, and I will talk about the development of the Estonian economy and the activities of the central bank last year. Last year the global economy grew at a moderate pace and the euro area also showed clearer signs of economic stabilisation. The decline for almost one and a half years was replaced by modest economic growth in the second quarter, but truely, overall, the euro area's economic growth was still 0.4% in the minus half of the year. Growth in the euro area has been uneven across countries, but overall confidence in the future outlook for the euro area economy has increased and domestic demand has increased. Despite the first positive signs, it should be stressed that uncertainty about the outlook for the euro area economy has not yet disappeared. From a monetary policy point of view, the environment was rather complex last year. The euro area credit market was rather fragmented and inflation remained low due to a weak demand environment. Therefore, like many developed national central banks, the European Central Bank continued its monetary policy to support economic recovery. Monetary policy interest rates have remained record low, supporting the return to investment. It is important for the central banks of the euro area that low interest rates reach the real economy and good business projects receive funding from banks on reasonable terms. This will help boost the economy and facilitate the maintenance of price stability. In 2013, the central banks began to use increasingly clearer "pre-communications" on possible monetary policy measures, thereby increasing the stability of the functioning of the economy and the financial markets. The aim of this step was to increase the transparency of central banks' activities and thereby contribute to the impact of monetary policy on the real economy. Economic recovery and the lessons of the financial crisis are at the heart of economic policy not only in the euro area, but worldwide. The first real steps towards change have been taken: the role of central banks in financial supervision is growing. The European Central Bank is already preparing from the end of last year to take over responsibility for the supervision of banks in the euro area. This means new tasks related to financial stability for all euro area central banks. Eesti Pank has also recently acquired new tasks to carry out so-called macro-financial supervision in Estonia. These are undoubtedly the most important tasks of Eesti Pank in the coming years. Coming to the Estonian economy, I start with the fact that our economic development reflected the weakness and fickleness of the external environment last year. Growth in the quarter was uneven and annual growth was 0.8%. The growth in external demand was much smaller than we expected a year earlier in our economic forecast. The volatility of foreign demand has also shaped the results of the Estonian economy this year and the picture of what is happening has become very mixed. Over the last year, the slowdown in economic growth and the reduction in added value have been linked to individual activities. For some time now, the added value of transport and storage activities has decreased, which is unlikely to recover in the near future. The added value of the construction sector has fallen due to a reduction in public sector orders. On the other hand, the latest data indicate that private sector orders are replacing reduced orders from the public sector. In the case of the economic downturn in the first quarter, there was a lot of talk about the impact of the warmer weather, which should go away in the second quarter. Alongside the great fallers, there have been areas where things have gone well. Last year, thanks to consumption, the value added of the trade sector increased by about one tenth, the value added of the manufacturing industry increased by about 5% and the added value of the information and communications industry increased by as much as 15%. Estonia's economic growth has been driven primarily by domestic demand, which is based on the increase in household incomes. At the same time, labour costs have increased faster for some time than productivity, which is unsustainable. If wage growth remains fast, but foreign demand and price growth on foreign markets are low, Estonia will start to lose competitiveness and the economy will lose growth. It is important that companies dare to increase investment. It is also important that high unemployment is reduced, which requires, in particular, steps to reduce structural unemployment. The fact that lately wage growth has also accelerated in the government sector makes it more difficult for the private sector to make the necessary adjustments. The fact that, according to some indicators, the Estonian economy operates below and above its potential, makes it difficult to assess the relationship between fiscal policy and the business cycle. At the same time, the revenue from the budget has remained satisfactory and provides an opportunity to address not only the current situation but also the longer-term outlook. If the expectations of recovery in the global economy are not met, we must also be prepared to change spending plans. The majority of the European Union's Member States are distinguished by the fact that although it has been kept in good condition, Estonia's public finances do not want to progress in the projected improvement of the target fiscal position. It is true that this year's economic growth will be slower than expected. At the same time, the difference between real and nominal growth has stretched large, and when measured at current prices, we are talking about an annual growth of 4 to 6% for 2015/2016. In terms of nominal growth, the situation is not so bad that we should relax the targets set in previous years. The new State Budget Act is known to value more long-term planning than before. This means that each autumn's national budget plan for next year needs to be more seriously taken into account in the objectives set out in the country's budgetary strategy and stability programme. This link must not be dealt with narrowly and merely reduced to keeping the budgetary position in structural balance or surplus. Firstly, the structural position is not the only objective, but rather an orientation that helps to avoid excessive volatility in fiscal policy. Equally important must be the introduction of the nominal budget surplus and the restoration of reserves. The achievement of these objectives has already been postponed several times. According to the new budgetary strategy, balancing the nominal balance is only planned for 2017 and in the next few years the fiscal stance will be much more relaxed than it has been since the recession exited. Secondly, Eesti Pank has stressed on several occasions that measuring the structural balance is not so easy in real time and we can only make a more accurate assessment afterwards. The nominal figures are therefore much more robust in the difficult situation. In the autumn, when developing the budget plan for next year, the minimum task is to ensure that the budgetary balance improves by both nominal and structural indicators. We now come to the activities of Eesti Pank. Our task is to keep price growth moderate, by developing a common monetary policy with the other central banks of the euro area and implementing it in Estonia. Our task is to ensure that companies and households can rely on money with stable purchasing power in their transactions and calculations. This is a prerequisite for preventing large price fluctuations. We know that the Bank's decisions, advice and assessments must be based on in-depth analysis and clearly presented. We are responsible for producing statistics on the Estonian financial and external sectors and financial accounts. As a maker of public statistics, our aim is to provide high-quality, reliable and impartial information that we use ourselves and use others in our analysis, forecasting and policy making, both in Estonia and beyond. As the central bank of the state, Eesti Pank contributes to the sustainable development of the Estonian economy and the growth of wealth. To this end, Eesti Pank advises the government and cooperates with research institutions, other central banks and international institutions. We also keep the Estonian financial system stable and help shape the policy of the financial sector. While the task of Eesti Pank in the area of financial stability has increased due to the introduction of a single banking supervision at the end of this year, the implementation of the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) has reduced the role of Eesti Pank in the area of payments somewhat at the beginning of this year. Commercial banks gave up their participation in the local retail payment system offered by Eesti Pank following the application of SEPA and therefore Eesti Pank is redesigning its role in this area. Eesti Pank considers it important that the Estonian payments market, integrated with the European payment environment, is secure and favourable and treats market participants equally. Although SEPA conditions slowed interbank settlements, this is still a major step forward in the functioning of the European single market. In addition to the use of the single currency, the people and companies of Estonia can settle on the same terms throughout Europe. Despite the growing popularity of electronic payment instruments, cash still plays an important role in Estonia as a means of payment and as a store of value. Eesti Pank, in cooperation with other Eurosystem member banks, will ensure that the demand for euro banknotes and coins is satisfied and that the margin for circulation is maintained, and will ensure the quality of cash and the protection of banknotes from counterfeiting. For a long time, a transition to the second series of euro banknotes with renewed designs and enhanced security features has been prepared. The share of euro banknotes in circulation in the first new series had reached more than 52% by the end of last year. On 23 September this year, a new EUR 10 banknote will be put into circulation. Coming to Eesti Pank's financial results, income and expenditures, I start with the fact that the central bank must be financially independent in order to carry out its tasks. This requires the preservation of the central bank's assets and their investment. The reserves of Eesti Pank support the credibility of the monetary system of the euro area, ensure the necessary independence of the central bank and ensure the availability of sufficient capital to cover potential losses. In addition, Eesti Pank manages the Guarantee Fund's investment portfolio under a cooperation agreement and participates in the investment of foreign reserves of the European Central Bank in cooperation with other Eurosystem central banks. Last year Eesti Pank received 42.2 million euros in income from the joint activities of the Eurosystem, i.e. monetary policy and cash issuance. Eesti Pank earned 3.7 million euros from investing its own assets. The profit of Eesti Pank last year was 23.5 million euros. This net return was reduced by an overall risk allocation of EUR 6,8 million in 2014 to cover risks. Last year we made the first risk allocation of EUR 11.5 million. The main expenditure of Eesti Pank has slightly increased due to the cost of making cash, which last year was 17.4 million euros. Emergency measures taken in Europe and elsewhere to alleviate the crisis in recent years have supported economic development, but also increased the balance sheet size of central banks and associated risks. Eesti Pank's expanded equity ratio to monetary policy risk assets is one of the smallest among the euro area central banks. At the same time, the Eurosystem takes into account the risks associated with its single monetary policy by monitoring the average level of capital of central banks. Therefore, it is very important that the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank also decided to continue its current profit distribution strategy in 2014 with the aim of raising the relative level of expanded equity to the average level of the central banks of the euro area. By decision of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, a quarter of the profit in 2013 was allocated to the state budget, i.e. 5.9 million euros. Since 1992 Eesti Pank has allocated 129 million euros of its profits to the state budget. The situation in financial markets, where interest rates on government bonds with a higher credit rating have fallen to very low levels, has brought new challenges to the central bank as a long-term conservative money provider. Eesti Pank has responded to changes in the operating environment and spread risks by adding additional asset classes to the investment portfolio and placing money on bond markets in more countries than in the past. In 2013, the Bank's Management Board changed the planning and budgeting of its work in order to increase the efficiency of the organisation. A more effective functioning was also reflected in the decrease in the budget volume of Eesti Pank this year. With the exception of cash costs, which vary greatly from year to year, the central bank's budget for this year is 2.5% lower than last year. Looking at two years, we have increased our budget volume by 0.9%, while the nominal growth of the Estonian economy was 10% or 11%. So it can be said that the share of Eesti Pank in the Estonian economy has decreased by about 10% or a tenth over the last two years, which means that we are taking our cost effectiveness very seriously and we have been working towards it. To sum up, 2013 was a difficult year for Eesti Pank and the Estonian economy as a whole, but it was still a success. However, success did not come easily and it would be premature to rest on laurels. Risks in Estonia, Europe and the global economy require constant attention and assessment. Keeping what we have achieved so far requires effort from all of us. We must ensure that we are prepared to respond flexibly to economic changes at household, business and also national level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U6	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! First of all, thank you for this comprehensive and informative presentation. But you have noted in the annual report that last year the signs of imbalances on the labour market began to appear and labour costs increased too rapidly. At the same time, it has been agreed in Estonia that the minimum wage will increase by around 10% per year between 2013 and 2015. The European Commission has stated in its longer working document, with recommendations to countries that this step will increase incentives for low-paid people to work, but will also increase labour costs, speed up already rapid wage growth and affect labour demand. I'm asking for your assessment. Is raising the minimum wage by 10% too fast, is it appropriate and appropriate, or is it too slow? Should the increase in the minimum wage be accelerated, as has recently been the case with proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U8	Thank you for your question. I do not think that we have made an accurate assessment or recommendation on the pace of growth. But I think it could be assumed that the minimum wage and the average wage could grow in more or less proportion. There are very different experiences in the world. Germany is still thinking about whether to introduce a minimum wage at all. In some countries the minimum wage is higher, in some countries the minimum wage is lower. But I think that in many countries the minimum wage tends to be about one third of the average wage. We have him on that level now, too. Probably at a faster and slower pace, both have their pros and cons. But I do not think that this balance should be shifted very radically in one direction or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U9	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U10	Thank you. Honourable performer! Recently, foreign banks, especially Swedbank, have been talked about not particularly customer-friendly policies, but also about taking profits abroad. There has been a lot of talk about the need for Estonia to start with a cooperative banking based on Estonian capital. Tallinn's cooperative bank is at the top and is wanted to be created. Võru also intends to set up a bank. I want to hear your point of view as to whether a system of cooperative banking should develop in Estonia, which would leave the capital to its home country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U11	Thank you for your question. I think that the current laws also provide for the possibility that a bank may be set up either on the basis of a public limited liability company or on the basis of the principles of collective action. Savings and loan cooperatives can also be established. There is freedom of action. If such proposals are made, if there are groups that want to do so, then there is a definite regulation. The Credit Institutions Act defines exactly what conditions and how much capital these banks should have and what business plans they should submit to the Financial Supervision Authority. There are precise procedures under which the licence is granted or not. So if there are groups that offer solutions based on a strong business plan and all other requirements are in place, I think it is positive. But it is, after all, the question of the Financial Supervision Authority and, since November, the European Central Bank whether or not such permits are granted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U12	Thank you. Please, Marika-Tuus Song!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U13	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Bank of Estonia. There was a little talk about the minimum wage. I'll ask for more. You mentioned that rapid wage growth has held on to our economic development. You've mentioned this before. How do you feel about banker Indrek Neivelt's proposal to raise the minimum wage to EUR 1 000 per month in the coming years? The reason for this is that it would help to reduce wage poverty and help people not to leave Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U14	This subject has been a lot of debate over the past week. I am not taking this proposal very seriously. Of course, the objective is very correct. If we were able to increase our productivity so that companies would become more efficient and provide the basis for faster wage growth, this would, of course, be the ideal option. But in my opinion, life is not so easy that just anyone, whether employers, employees or the government, agree to raise the minimum wage very quickly, and then the economy starts to flourish. I think that economic development is, however, a slightly more complex process. But as I mentioned earlier, of course you can always discuss whether the ratio could be a little higher or lower. Ultimately, however, economic development is a marathon rather than a sprint. You don't have to artificially forge it. We are well aware of what happened during the boom when wages increased by 15 to 20% per year. This was unsustainable and we suffered very much because we had forced our economy to grow too quickly. In my opinion, moderate ambition would be good, but I do not support the use of one instrument very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U15	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U16	Thank you! Good performer, first of all acknowledgment to you for a very informative and good review! But my question is about the negative interest rates that the European Central Bank has reached. How do you comment on this and what impact can it have on the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U17	That's the decision we made last Thursday. This means that we lend money to commercial banks and deposit their money, and we lowered these interest rates. Looking at the economy of the euro area as a whole, although the real economy has developed more or less as planned, economic growth is rather weak. It now stands out that inflation is rather low, not very high. Our long-term objective, not only of the European Central Bank, but also of other central banks, is to keep inflation close to 2%. At the moment, we believe that inflation is too low rather than too high. There are reasons why we feel that way. However, in this situation, normal measures should be taken to increase the interest of banks in borrowing out the money they are currently sitting on into the economy. We hope that, as a result of this policy, it will be in the euro area as a whole. How can this affect the economy? It will eventually be transferred to the general economy. Perhaps this will further reduce the interest rates paid on deposits. However, at the same time, this should have some impact on the level of Euribor, for example, and therefore, for those with housing loans, this could reduce the payments to be made to the bank every month. Therefore, it should leave us a little more money in our pockets for which we can consume something or what we can invest. Therefore, it should also boost our economy a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U18	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U19	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu! Mr President of Eesti Pank, first of all, thank you very much for your presentation. You said in your speech that the economic forecast may not be as good this year as it was last year that there might be a decline. Can you open it up a little bit? The other part of the question is more general. Eesti Pank makes forecasts. Looking back, how do you assess how much the government and, above all, the Ministry of Finance have listened to your forecasts and made adjustments in their work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U20	Thank you. We'll publish our new forecast tomorrow at 11:00. I can't even tell you about this right now. But if you have any questions about this in the future, I'd be happy to answer. Of course, the result of the first quarter was a bit unexpected for all of us. Against this background, it is clear that we need to review the forecast. We know that, in the meantime, there have been some setbacks in the external environment and some risks have increased. The Finnish economy has not done as well as we hoped, but Finland is our very important partner. Everything that's going on east of us is certainly very important. We will, of course, have to make some assumptions in the forecast, and we will try to make our point tomorrow. But surely the outlook for nominal GDP growth is more modest than it may have seemed six months ago. We do not systematically assess the impact of our forecasts and recommendations. It would also be quite difficult to do, as we provide public advice, but we also communicate at expert level and it is difficult to say how much involvement in some discussion affected something. But at least right now, we have a working and constructive relationship with the government. I think that until our forecasts are considered objective and neutral, hopefully they will have some effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U21	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U22	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, In your report, you briefly mentioned that according to some indicators, the Estonian economy is working below its potential. Do you specify what these figures are and what Eesti Pank concludes from this? Would Estonia have the potential to grow if these indicators were taken more seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U23	Thank you for your question. No, basically, I meant our GDP growth rate. We saw that we had a recession in the first quarter. Last year, economic growth was only 0.8%. If we think about the long-term growth potential of the Estonian economy, it is not exactly possible to rethink it, but we ourselves think, on the basis of various indicators, that it could now be 3 to 4%. Based on this indicator, we will grow more slowly than we could grow in the long term. This is partly due to the external environment situation, partly because some sectors have structural problems, especially the transit sector. The second indicator is the increase in labour costs. At present, our wages are rising by 7 to 8% per year. We have 8% unemployment, which is well below the euro area average, but nevertheless, we probably have more unemployment than we would like. Even in the face of high unemployment, we have perceived wage pressures. It would suggest that our economy is reaching some kind of bottleneck or the limit of growth potential. In this sense, they are such contrasting indicators. I think it is important to use all of these indicators as reference points, to synthesize them, but not to mechanistically refer to one or the other, because they are very contradictory.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U24	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Pines!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Eesti Pank has recently gained more responsibilities, I am thinking in particular of the Fiscal Council, which gives you the opportunity to participate indirectly in the state budget process. I come for a moment to the economic forecast, which a fellow Member has already asked about. I know that your prognosis is merely comparative. The two national institutions draw up forecasts in parallel, which often do not overlap and give rise to speculation. I'm asking your opinion. Is it conceivable that, as an impartial institution, Eesti Pank would take the initiative to draw up an economic forecast on which the state budget could be based?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U26	Thank you for your question. I understand that idea, but it seems to me that it is perhaps even good right now if we have several prognosis that can be compared. In my opinion, it would not be possible for the Ministry of Finance not to predict at all, because it still has to make some technical preparations in its day-to-day work. So he's probably gonna have to deal with it anyway. We can offer an alternative vision. When we are in the European System of Central Banks, it would not be possible, according to the current rules, not to make a forecast, we are also obliged to do so within the European System of Central Banks. I think we both have to make these predictions, and that might be useful. No one knows the objective truth, maybe sometimes it'll be better, sometimes it'll be better. Two of these options that can be discussed can be useful. A few weeks ago, you adopted the legislative changes that created the Fiscal Council. He's starting his job now. It will not prepare a third forecast, but will make comments and assess the position on the basis of other forecasts. We have a service function; we must provide technical support to this Council. I think that the current situation, where there are many predictions, is perhaps better for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U27	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of Eesti Pank, thank you for your presentation. Savings and Loan Cooperatives are a marginal part of the financial sector. How do you assess the role of savings and loan cooperatives in Estonia today and do you think they could have a stronger position or do you think they have growth potential?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U29	Thank you for your question. I think it makes a lot of sense that we have savings loan cooperatives. The laws foresee them, and they have been created, even though they are only very small given the balance sheet size of the entire financial sector. The question is how to deal with and regulate them accurately. At present, one model is that they have been set up on the basis of the common fund principle. This means that some community or region where people know each other puts their money together, then they start lending to each other, etc. It's such a classic activity. The second extreme is the greater part of banking. The question is whether responsibilities and rights are always consistent. At present, savings and loan cooperatives are not subject, for example, to savings insurance; they are not subject to interest tax incentives. However, they are not subject to any supervision. They themselves must, with the help of their auditors, monitor each other. I would be concerned if there were an intermediate option where they were no longer built on a very classical basis, where they de facto start raising deposits from the general public, people like to pay higher interest rates, but the link between shareholders disappears afterwards. Then there might be a problem that they are neither one nor the other, that they will essentially act like commercial banks, but they will not be covered by deposit insurance or supervision. Perhaps it is necessary to organise these things a little in one direction or another, so that this activity is on as strong a basis as possible, and the people who are putting their money there can be calm that this fund is secure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U30	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U31	Thank you, Mr President of the Bank, for an open and serious approach. We are all concerned about the prospects and development of the Estonian economy. As you said, the projections have had to be corrected and, unfortunately, in a negative direction. The question is how national monetary policy decisions respond to these forecasts and possible negative scenarios. Following the news of the first quarter of the recession, the government adopted a country's fiscal strategy in which the nominal fiscal position, which was to reach zero by next year, was reduced to a negative sign. You said in your speech that nominal figures could be a much more secure anchor in difficult circumstances. In view of the current economic outlook, did Eesti Pank consider that bringing the nominal fiscal position into deficit in the country's fiscal strategy was a reasonable decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U32	Thank you for your question. Last year the budget was in a small deficit, it was in a nominal deficit, but it was estimated that it was in a structural surplus. Recently, a new law was adopted which sets the minimum objective of having a budget either in structural balance or in surplus, it should not be negative. I think that the first challenge now is to ensure that the budget does not go into a structural deficit. If we give the forecast tomorrow, we can look at these figures a little bit more accurately. But we think we should start quietly collecting reserves. This means that, structurally or nominally, the budget could be in a small surplus, at least structurally, it could be in a surplus. Does this mean that the budget will have to be in nominal surplus next year, I cannot say yet. But we can see that this objective has been constantly delayed, for several years now. It was said that in two years, the budget will be in nominal balance, but it has been postponed constantly. If this is kept being postponed, it may be said that we are talking here about a few percent or less of GDP, but maybe it undermines the credibility of the medium term if we allow in a row, but then quietly withdraw from these promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U33	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U34	Thank you, good waitress, for an interesting presentation. Some time ago, there were very heated debates about Eesti Pank's decision to invest in euro area bonds, especially Greek ones. It's probably possible to talk about coming today. Can you tell me what the result is and how you appreciate this investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U35	Thank you for your question. This decision was made collectively. This was not the decision of Eesti Pank; it was the decision of the European System of Central Banks that we are participating in the purchase of such bonds not only in Greece but also in Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy. In total, some EUR 200 billion of these bonds were purchased, some of them in Greece. I think it is a little early to give a final assessment, however, because we do not know exactly how the situation in Greece will finally be resolved. Recently, however, we have seen positive signs, the Greek economy has shown some recovery, they have returned to international financial markets. So there are some signs of improvement. Yesterday, Greece received a new government. I think that this situation will be technically assessed again in the autumn and then we will see how things go on there. It can be said that no losses have occurred, but we know that the situation is not 100% certain and therefore it is worth being vigilant. The second question is that if we evaluate any policy, we need to look at what realistic alternatives have been. In absolute terms, it may seem that these funds or decisions are expensive, but if the alternative had been, for example, the breakdown of the euro area, which would have led to cataclysmic consequences, then the assessment may be quite different compared to this possibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U36	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U37	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, My question concerns the pension pillars. The concern is that I do not believe that the banks have acted effectively by placing their funds in investment portfolios. Does Eesti Pank also have any role in financial control over what is happening in pension funds? If not, shouldn't it be created?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U38	Thank you for your question. The details of the pension system are one area where we have not made recommendations. Dealing with the details of how this money is accurately placed and how effective it is, I think, is more of a government task. But this question is certainly justified. Whether the rate of return has been high enough to contribute to the achievement of the objective of the pension system is asked not only in Estonia but also in other countries. If this money were placed in the private sector, the return would be higher. I think it's the government's job to follow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U39	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. One of the most important tasks of Eesti Pank is to organise the circulation of money. In recent weeks several political parties in Estonia have started to fight for the availability of cash. What are your estimates of the availability of cash in Estonia? Is the situation rather good, or are there still shortcomings? What do you even value the future of cash for? As we know, however, a large number of people in Estonia prefer to use electronic payment methods. Does cash as such have a future in the next five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U41	Thank you for your question. This debate has started in the last few weeks. I think it is most welcome that we are considering and discussing these issues. It's not an easy subject. I think that this is not just our subject, but in every country such matters are raised. One thing is that people's habits change and technology changes. Twenty years ago, people handled things differently than they did today. On the other hand, there is also a regional political dimension here; Estonia's settlement changes quietly. By going along with it, efficiency must be ensured on the one hand and, on the other hand, be aware that this transition can be very difficult and that the life of some people can make such changes very difficult. I think that here, as with many other questions, we need to approach with a cold head and a warm heart and try to find a balance. On the one hand, we sense that such cardinal changes, which do not take into account the interests of all residents, can be painful. We need to see if there's any way we can relieve them. On the other hand, solutions should be found to help achieve our specific objectives, as effectively as possible. So I think it is a good thing that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is doing this now too, especially as it is a matter of regional policy. We are, of course, happy to participate in this debate, but we think that our role is rather to equip the whole of Estonia with high-quality cash. However, we are pleased that this issue is being discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U42	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U43	Thank you very much. Thank you also for a good and concise presentation. The changes in the economy and finances have been discussed here today. There are some turbulences in the world of security. As we know, Eesti Pank also has national defence functions. As Chairman of the National Defence Commission, I would like to ask whether the international situation has encouraged you to discuss with one another the performance of the defence duties on your desk. If we are talking about a broad approach to national defence, wouldn't it be time for you to take a fresh look at these roles?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U44	Thank you for your question. We are constantly thinking about these issues and, given the situation, we are paying additional attention to them, but we are working with other public authorities to think about our role in this situation. Recently, rather than so recently, the Emergency Act was passed, on the basis of which we work with four major banks to ensure their sustainability in certain more difficult situations. Of course, this is an issue that we should all be dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U45	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is about Eesti Pank's reserves. These reserves are, as we know, significantly smaller than the central banks of most other EU countries. How critical do you think this is? How long should it be, or could it be, the period during which these reserves have reached this average level, as is the case in Europe? What risks could arise? What circumstances could prove to be beyond the control of Eesti Pank because the reserves are not at the usual level?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U47	Thank you for your question. We have evaluated ourselves that our reserves are too small rather than too large. This is partly due to the fact that we are a younger central bank than many others who operate in Europe and have been able to collect reserves for a very long time. So we have smaller ones for obvious reasons. It may not have been so important under the conditions of the kroon, but we are now sharing incomes with other countries in the euro area and we are also sharing responsibilities. The basic income comes from common activities; we have a single monetary policy. However, there are risks in this sense. It is partly credit risk. If some of the so-called stress countries have problems repaying their loans, we could lose. The second aspect is more general risks, for example if interest rates should change in the future. So far, we have earned quite nicely by the fact that interest rates have fallen quietly. This has increased the price of our assets, but these rates may be moving in the opposite direction. We can imagine that even if nothing happens anywhere in the periphery, there may be years when we get losses rather than profits, because the yield is just so low that the income from it does not exceed costs. In this situation, of course, we want and have managed to transfer part of our net revenue to the state budget. But we do not want to take this approach that we are all transferring to the state budget, and when a very difficult situation comes where we need this money suddenly, the state should say that it is paying us off, because at this very moment the state budget is probably in a very difficult position. I think it would be much better to take into account the logic of collecting reserves, where in good times we put money aside, so that when bad times come, Eesti Pank would not be the institution that should come to the state and ask for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U48	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U49	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I'm asking about the state budget. As we know, the state budget was designed in the hope that growth would be 3.6%. Unfortunately, the first quarter's economic downturn was 1.4%. The latest news is that in May VAT fell by 1.6% compared to the same time last year, which means that there is no internal consumption either. The countries around us are all pessimistic: Sweden and Finland are in recession, Russia is in moderate economic growth. The exception is Latvia and Lithuania, where growth is expected to be 3%. Do you think the state budget should be redeployed? What miracle does the government hope for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U50	Thank you for your question. I think we'll open up a little more of these issues tomorrow. But yes, we can see that growth is weaker and inflation is not as high as it used to be. Nominal growth, at least this year, will certainly be a little more modest than last year. I think it's going to knock down the base, which means that next year's nominal GDP will probably be smaller than what we thought a few months ago. We may not have taken into account yet that the international situation could deteriorate significantly. At the moment, we expect such a moderate deterioration, a pretty dramatic situation has not yet arisen, but it cannot be ruled out. When planning the budget, these developments must certainly be monitored and prepared to make corrections; plan B must always exist. But I think it's a more complicated task than it seemed a few months ago. So far, the slow growth in real GDP has been compensated at least by price increases which have kept nominal GDP growth relatively high. But I think this year this nominal growth will be a little less.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U51	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You had a very good picture of the substance. To be honest, it's a little bit of a shame that we heard the review today, and tomorrow you will publish a new forecast. It would certainly have been a good thing if they had taken place on the same day, or if your report could have been a little later, I could have asked you for operational information. However, in view of the current economic trend and nominal income from the state budget, it has to be said that some politicians have calmed themselves by the fact that tax receipts are still normal and we can afford to take on some expenditure for the future as well. You have said that the most relaxed goal is structural balance. So here's my question to you. What's the situation now, are we having a good time or a bad one? When we look at the costs, it feels like good times. When we look at the decline in reserves, it feels like bad times. What's your assessment of where we're headed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U53	Thank you for your question. To sum up with one sentence, today the Estonian economy is characterised by versatility. It is very difficult to describe this picture briefly. During the recession, it could be said that the situation was clearly bad, everything went down. Between 2011 and 2012, we saw an overall improvement. But since last year, the picture's gotten pretty mixed up. We have certain sectors of the economy, such as trade, which is doing very well, while transport and storage, logistics and transit are doing badly. So it is difficult to make a common assessment. But I think that if we look at nominal GDP growth, this year we will have a slightly worse situation than we have so far. The fact that wages have increased quite quickly has kept the receipts higher, with VAT received nicely, perhaps also from imports. It must look at the growth structure and should be very closely monitored by trends. Of course, it is a good thing that so far we have been able to collect taxes well in this situation, but it does not have to go on like this. Especially when wages begin to adapt to the situation, the tax base may start to weaken, while some others may grow, but caution is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U54	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U55	Thank you. Mr President, My question is about the second pillar of pension, which you said it was more of an executive power, a government to organise. I am not asking about details or the return on funds, but in itself it is a very large amount of money. It is estimated that EUR 300 million per year will be contributed by the state, EUR 100 million will be added by workers, totaling EUR 400 million per year. Do you think it is possible and necessary for this money to be linked more to the development of the Estonian economy, to be directed more towards the recovery of the Estonian economy and entrepreneurship? Some countries have gone that way. Or you don't think it's right? Should we even review the ideology of the second pillar? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U56	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Governor of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson, for his very good presentation and meaningful answers. The 2013 Annual Report of Eesti Pank, which is currently under discussion today, is already the third, which reflects the time when Eesti Pank works in the euro area. Some of the activities that seemed novel in 2011 and required thorough prior study and careful approach have already been customary daily work in 2013. If these words can be used at all for the work of a financial institution operating in today's financial world, rather the financial world requires constant readiness for surprises and changes. New situations require new and sometimes extraordinary solutions, so it is far from the habit. For three years, the Governor of Eesti Pank has taken part in all decisions concerning the Eurosystem as a decision-maker, as a member of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. The task of Eesti Pank, not the European Central Bank, is to implement joint decisions in Estonia. Since this Chamber has just had an in-depth discussion of the report and of the related problems, and the report is available with all its figures, I do not expressly refer to the content of the report. I would like to mention some of the facts that I believe deserve attention in the work of Eesti Pank during the last reporting period. First of all, I would like to highlight the work with the public. Eesti Pank has been working in this direction for several years, but in my opinion it was during the last reporting period that a particularly large-scale work took place here. If someone has taken a look at the website of Eesti Pank, they have had the opportunity to make sure that every week the bank's President and members of the management board have performed all kinds of seminars and briefings in front of entrepreneurs, journalists or just interested people. This has been done not only by the members of the management board, but also by the heads of the departments of Eesti Pank and the top specialists in their field. The society has gained a clearer view of the Bank's activities and tasks in relation to its membership of the European Central Bank. Society has received professional information about financial problems. This is illustrated by the fact that fewer and fewer are asked, or almost no longer are certain types of rhetorical questions asked. After all, it has been asked that if Eesti Pank is now part of the European Central Bank and decisions are made in the central bank anyway, then there are so many employees in our central bank. It has been thought that it would be sufficient for a few to follow the orders and orders coming from Europe. People have now understood what is done in Eesti Pank and its importance. I think it was one of the major breakthroughs last year. The table entitled "Participation of Eesti Pank in the work of international organisations and institutions' on pages 49 and 50 of the report under discussion illustrates this. Only in this table are 38 organisations that work permanently, and there are certainly many ad hoc discussions and working groups. The contribution to the good functioning of the Estonian economy is increasing. Due to the stabilisation of the economic situation in both Europe and Estonia, Eesti Pank's monitoring activities started to become more important in 2013, with a longer vision focusing on the balanced development of the Estonian economy and international competitiveness. In order to assess the growth potential of the Estonian economy from the export point of view, Eesti Pank started to produce an overview of competitiveness. The first such review was completed in March. According to the Eesti Pank Act, Eesti Pank is the main adviser to the government in a number of important economic policy areas. The analyses carried out by Eesti Pank in 2013 showed that despite the slowdown in economic growth, signs of imbalances in the labour market started to appear, in particular too rapid growth in labour costs. Therefore, Eesti Pank referred to the complexity of assessing the cyclical position of the economy and recommended that the government keep both the structural balance and nominal balance in the planning of budgetary policy in the short term. Eesti Pank also recommended that the general government budget be taken to surplus as soon as possible and that reserves be raised. As we have witnessed recently, the temporary government that took office has not heard of this. I guess they gave advice to the previous government. Unfortunately, in addition to all this positive, I cannot fail to mention the fact that I have also been talking about in the two previous years. Again, the Executive Board of Eesti Pank decided and the majority of the Supervisory Board supported it to allocate 25% of last year's profit, or 5.8 million euros to the state budget, while 75% was devoted to the increase in reserve capital. It would not be strange if we were not the last in the ranking of the European central banks in terms of reserve capital. There were also questions and presentations about this. It would take at least ten years to reach the average, with the current attitude more. The European central banks behave differently, some do not allocate money from profits at all to the state budget, others do so. But those who do so have already secured their reserve capital much better. There is some fear of Near: if we don't allocate the money, the Minister of Finance will be very upset and we will not be understood. The principle is, we'll leave the reserves uninsured first, as long as it doesn't mind. I recall one of the priorities of Eesti Pank, which is legally guaranteed: 'The Governor of Eesti Pank and Eesti Pank are independent in their activities and must not receive orders or instructions from the government or other interest groups outside the bank in carrying out their statutory tasks. ' Unfortunately, no one is made independent by law alone, because the law is applied by people and ultimately everything depends on how independent and internally free these people are. Besides, it's pretty much changing too. If a year ago he was willing to jump on anyone who offered a bill that seemed to him to be sowing money off a plane, now he's ready to carry money-filled bags on a plane. Life makes adjustments both in the environment and in people. I hope that next year Eesti Pank will take more care of its reserves. Given the size of the state budget, this entry does not play a major role. Finally, I would like to say that Eesti Pank worked perfectly during the reporting period and handled all its tasks very well, especially by educating the Estonian people on financial matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U57	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Our first item on the agenda is exhausted. Many thanks to the Governor of Eesti Pank and all negotiators and questioners!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U58	Thank you for that question. The assessment of the second pillar depends a little bit on the economy. At first it worked very well, the rate of return was quite good and we were positive. Then came the recession, the return decreased, and the price of the property fell. Then they started asking if it was even right to do it. In recent years, the picture has become a little more positive. The system is built on the principle that, in the long term, placing money in shares or private bonds can still be a profitable activity. How exactly do I place this money? This is an age-old issue that all countries have had to deal with and adopt some kind of position. If you invest all your money abroad, you can find very firm ways of investing money there, but maybe they don't produce or stimulate our economy very much. But if you put too much money into our economy, it must be taken into account that our capital markets are not yet very advanced, because we do not have much stock and corporate bonds at the moment, and if you start to make it very quickly, it is very much linked to the development of our economy again. The logic of investing money could be the diversification of risks. Such proportions, that part of the money goes abroad and some stays in Estonia, are probably logical. But where exactly to find this equilibrium point, whether to shift it a little in one direction or another, it is worth discussing, of course. I think again that Eesti Pank would not like to give advice here; we do not feel that we are competent in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U59	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, How do you feel about electronic money, or crypto money, or e-money? How much could this have an impact on the Estonian economy and also on banking?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U61	Thank you for your question. This is a new issue that we are trying to keep up to date and shape our position on this matter. It can now be said that since this is such a novelty and these volumes are so small, it may not pose any systemic risk to the Estonian economy. But at the same time, we have to admit that technology is developing and that if one crypto money or e-money is finally failing, this trend will probably continue and new technological solutions will come sooner or later. I think it's just a matter of warning people right now. If you want to invest in it, please, but be aware of the risks. These systems have no supervision whatsoever, we do not always know who their owners are, etc. They operate on new technical platforms that have not yet been finalised. There are also money laundering risks. So we should at least warn the consumer that this is a risk-taking exercise. We should probably shape the view that if our banks are going to deal with this money, what do we think about it? Perhaps the attitude should be cautious. The second question is when some platforms are being set up in Estonia to trade this money. Then we should certainly look at money laundering and terrorist financing so that we do not have any suspicious activity with this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U62	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you for your interesting presentation. Today, news came that in April Estonian exports decreased by 5%. Yesterday Eesti Pank issued a press release that the current account deficit is increasing due to the increase in domestic demand and the net inflow of the financial account is dominated by non-debting cash flows, not by direct investments, for example. Do you think these signs indicate that Estonia is not able to use structural aid to increase the international competitiveness of the economy, but that development aid is landing too directly in domestic consumption? Do these signs not refer to the overheating of the domestic economy that we have known since 2007 and are not all these risks on the agenda again? After all, in the initial phase of overheating, taxes are collected nicely and superficially, it may seem that this is the crisis we want to live in.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U64	Thank you for your question. I think the export figures can change from month to month. But this change took place in the last quarter. However, according to quarterly figures, it may be premature to say something. I think a year ago our economy was very well balanced. The budget and current account were very close to balance. Banks started to fund themselves much more from domestic deposits, deposits grew faster than loans, which means that the old financing model, when banks brought a lot of money from abroad to finance our lending activities, had changed and balance began to grow. But there have been signs of some imbalances in the last year. Firstly, wage increases are significantly higher than productivity growth. It will be passed on to consumption and eventually the current account deficit. The second trend is that real estate prices are starting to rise. This is, in itself, a sort of sign of danger, but we are now comforting ourselves with it and seeing as positive that the banks have not heated it. In fact, the volume of mortgage loans has increased by around 1% over the year, which is slower than the growth of the entire economy. It is based on the fact that apparently people are looking for opportunities to better place their money because of low interest rates and some have invested their money in real estate. Until now, however, these imbalances had not passed over the current account deficit. This one indicator suggests that we need to start monitoring it a little more. If this trend is to be established, if it is to remain this way at the moment, it is about 3.5% of GDP and it should be even worse, then there is certainly a need to think more about balancing the economy, either through fiscal policy or through the same macro-financial supervision measures for which you have now given us competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U65	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U66	Thank you. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! Your presentation gave rise to concerns about economic growth. When it comes to speaking to entrepreneurs or looking at research, it turns out that one factor that hinders economic development is access to capital. Businesses can't actually get the capital to develop. It turns out from your report that the volume of long-term loans has not really increased significantly. In one response, you also referred to the problem of the development of capital markets. Perhaps you can tell us a little more about your vision for the development of capital markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U67	Thank you for your question. I think we could ideally have a more diverse financial sector. In Europe, the financial sector is very banking-driven in almost all countries, but we still have this in particular. When we look at our stock market and corporate bonds, we see that these volumes are not very large. The aim could be (I think it will also be seen in Europe) how non-banking elements could be increased. It would also be better for us to have more share capital in the economy in terms of improving the resilience of the economy. There are groups in Estonia that deal with this. This should be done again in a moderational way. If we discover that there are some shortcomings that limit the development of non-banking activities, then of course solutions could be considered. But one thing that doesn't work for us is our small size. Capital markets often tend to develop where the volumes can be large, but we have relatively few companies that can issue marketable bonds, the liquidity and turnover of our stock exchange are always limited. So what is possible in Poland, for example, maybe we are not always able. But, of course, we would welcome the modest search for these opportunities so that we can grow this part quietly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U68	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U69	Thank you. Good President! It is quite consensual that the administrative division of Estonia is fragmented and fragmented. Less maybe views have been expressed on the degree of consolidation and critical mass of our business. Do you also see as one problem that we have too much subcritical entrepreneurship that, especially in small-country conditions, cannot realize itself? The same question is actually about Eesti Pank. Eesti Pank is an institution with quite considerable intellectual capacity. It seems to me that we could hear more about Eesti Pank, including cooperation with, at least, academic institutions, and not with the executive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U70	Thank you for your question. I'll be right with that last question. I would like to think that in the last few years, however, we have been much more visible in society than in the past. We have been involved in debates, often not very visible. But I have also wanted to meet very much myself with professional associations and certain groups to unformally unravel these topics in front of cameras and journalists. We still have work to do in this area, but we could certainly play an active part in these debates. At the same time, I think we need to focus our actions a little bit. It is also expected that we should take the floor on many issues, that since we have potential and very wise people, we could contribute more widely. But here maybe there's a place to choose whether or not to go too far from your mandate. We do not want to speak on issues that are clearly 'political' and are not linked to economic stability. We will focus on those issues where we feel most competent. We have rather refrained from analysing or commenting on issues such as administrative distribution or the structure of the business sector. But these concerns are understandable, so we can discuss these matters further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U71	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Governor of Eesti Pank! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance, there will be a speaker at Urmas Reinsalu. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Governor of Eesti Pank! Members of the Riigikogu! The IRL Group believes that Eesti Pank's annual report should be approved. But when we talk about our economic environment and the prospects for monetary policy, we have to say that something is wrong right now. We need to speak openly about both recent political rhetoric and monetary policy decisions that have recently been taken. The Governor of Eesti Pank raised some cautionary problems in a very delicate, academic way. The fact is that the government's monetary policy is not aimed at solving these problems, but is, unfortunately, moving in the opposite direction. So, concrete proposals. Firstly, in the medium term, it is important to restore and increase reserves. However, the reality is that, given the large leap in the plan to increase fixed costs, a significant part of the central government's reserves will be spent in the next three years. Secondly, the Governor of Eesti Pank warned that the nominal balance should be taken into account in addition to the use of the structural balance indicator, which can be considered as a reference. We see that, unfortunately, in the light of the latest economic forecasts, the monetary policy objectives of the Government of the Republic have been aimed at a significant relaxation of the budgetary balance. In other words, negative signals from the economic environment will be reacted by relaxing monetary policy objectives. I asked if something was wrong at first. Yeah, I think something's wrong. What's basically wrong? Very simple question! The expenditure is planned as in the boom, and the additional fixed costs are planned to be taken from the reserves, i.e. the reserves will be eaten away, as in the crisis. In fact, two parallel activities have been put together: to spend like a boom, but to "eat" reserves as in a crisis. There has been much talk here about whether or not the budget will be balanced in the coming years. My argument is that if current expenditure is to be covered by reserves, it is a deficit and the budget is in deficit. There is no point in ignoring the simple fact that applies to the family, to the company and also to the state with any magic. But the government is optimistic. Optimism is also a very important asset when it comes to promoting domestic consumption, optimism in the business environment, consumer optimism, but in addition to the short-term political agenda proposed by this government, the government must also have a sense of responsibility in making long-term monetary policy decisions. The government's optimism is that current sources of coverage to cover fixed costs, in addition to spending reserves, have allegedly been found. Moreover, the Prime Minister says that EUR 40 million is over. It turns out that the outlook for the economy is negative, however, we are looking forward to the forecast of Eesti Pank tomorrow and there is an orwell situation that is being sold to society. There's more money! The budget balance targets have been met and EUR 40 million remains! I think the right thing is that some people can be fooled all the time, all people can be fooled for a while, but unfortunately neither in fundamental monetary policy choices nor in the real situation can all people be misled all the time. When we look at the budget strategy figures, we see the next state of play. Last year, the budgetary strategy approved by the Government of the Republic set the following nominal balance targets: 0, 2015 +0,2, 2016 +0,7. In the spring of this year, in the negative outlook for the economy, the nominal balance targets are as follows: 2015 - 0.5, 2016 - 0.7 and only 0.1 from 2017. I think that the same illusionary or optical effect of two years is hidden here, which is actually trying to postpone everyone, including the medium-term balance targets, to the two-year-old time that the Governor of Eesti Pank spoke about. It is said that the structural balance has remained the same. Indeed, if we look at changes in the structural balance compared to the fiscal strategy adopted last spring, we will see changes here too. If a structural surplus of 0.7% was planned for next year and 1% was planned for the next year, then it has now been adjusted significantly downwards: 0.2% for 2015 and 0.0% for 2016. In other words, the fiscal policy of a state with a sustainable and balanced state budget logic should be based on a cyclical logic: in better times, we will gather reserves that can be spent in worse times, and then there will be better times when we restore reserves, better and worse times vary. Now, however, I have a question with regard to public finances: what are our times? Are these better or worse times? We spend like in a boom, and we cover the costs of reserves like in a crisis. At once, such a two-way monetary policy is unsustainable. This inability to be sustainable is now apparent; the downward-adjusted figures for the budgetary strategy are an expression of this. The question is whether, unfortunately, we have reason to be concerned here, these downward-adjusted figures are actually feasible. We take into account that Eesti Pank's own estimate, according to Ülo Kaasik, of the total amount of tax revenue this year should be about 100 million euros less than expected, and the outlook for nominal economic growth, i.e. the growth of which tax revenues come from absolute figures, is negative. In short, something's wrong here. Optimism is a reasonable value, but it must be balanced. I call on the President of Eesti Pank to take the warnings seriously. Secondly, I call on the government to very conservatively review its costs...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U73	A representative of the Good Fatherland and Res Publica Union Group, the time has passed a long time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U74	This is such an important subject!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U75	I should have turned down the important thing from the beginning. Please stop!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U76	I consider it reasonable that, in the light of the summer economic forecast, corrections are also made in budgetary policy decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U77	Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Vasiliev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U78	Ladies and gentlemen and the President of the Bank. I wasn't planning on coming to the speaker's desk. I would certainly like to thank the President of the Bank for this presentation, for the opportunity to ask him questions in the Chamber and also for his answers. But, frankly, I was motivated to come here before you, unfortunately, I cannot say that I would have been immensely inspired by the previous speaker first and foremost. Why did I get motivated? There were some things in that speech that you could totally agree to. Unfortunately, there were quite a few of them in that eight - minute period. There is no doubt that there is concern that economic growth has been adjusted downwards, both in real terms and in nominal terms, in the last quarter. Certainly, as a result of this correction, the country needs to review its own economic forecasts and look at what other forecasters are doing. Overall, however, there has been a consensual approach that next to 2014 2015 will be seen in a more positive light. As a result, the criticism of the IRL is particularly interesting, particularly for 2014, which they remember being actively involved in the preparation of the budget. In this light, this hindsight of self - criticism, which is directed at a completely different addressee, seems strange, to say the least. In addition, if you look at the new budget strategy that the new coalition has put together, the IRL, which has taken on the role of opposition, would be a little surprisingly quick, to read it thoroughly, because it is not a deterioration of the budgetary position, but, on the contrary, it will improve it. The fact that the nominal balance is worse than it was in previous strategies is mainly due to the fact that a growth adjustment has been made. In other words, the new coalition will not worsen the 2015 budgetary position, but will improve it. In view of the fact that the IRL requires a very conservative and rigid fiscal policy, their statements concerning all kinds of sources of cover, the VAT return, the value added tax (VAT) on cars, the excise duty, and the postponement of parental pensions seem particularly bizarre. At the same time, they are very tempted to raise child subsidies not to EUR 45, for which the coalition has been able to find shelters, but to EUR 60 and to increase defence spending from 2% of GDP to 2.5% of GDP. If you put it all together, it will certainly be over 200 million euros if you count it off quickly. Perhaps, on the one hand, a much more disciplined and conservative fiscal policy is required, on the other hand, a completely populist deterioration of the budgetary position in the context of next year is already at least EUR 200 million, and possibly beyond. This is an extremely demagogic approach and it is very difficult to accept this criticism. Unfortunately, what is no longer very surprising is that the IRL has really taken on its new role very quickly and in the opposition in a populist context, it seems to me, a leading role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U79	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Kallov Kallo Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U80	We come to today's second item, the Annual Report 2013 of the Financial Supervision Authority. I'll introduce the procedure. First, the presentation by Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, will be up to 20 minutes, following questions to the rapporteur. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. There will be further negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, Kilvar Kessler. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U81	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the important events and trends in the Estonian financial market and financial supervision that took place in 2013. Georg Ots, one of the most famous singers in Estonia, asked: "Where does our homeland begin? " Possible answers were offered in the song itself. I found the answer to the question at the beginning of the 80's, reading 'The History of the Estonian War of Independence' in two volumes, which my father had secretly obtained and which I, in turn, worked without my father's knowledge. But where does the financial market start? In my opinion, it begins and consists of three components: law, mathematics and trust. The law is a framework of behaviour and the basis on which financial market activities are based, a mortar that combines the various components and ensures their foreseeable synergies. Mathematics gives content to financial services, specifies risk-taking, transfer and pricing. Trust is a prerequisite for a well-functioning financial market. A non-trusted financial intermediary will not be able to distribute voluntary funds from those who have a surplus, to those who need them most in particular time and space, as well as to redistribute risks. First, the law, or the most important financial market laws, in 2013. The Estonian financial market acquis is largely directed and shaped at European Union level. This is necessary to deepen the single market in financial services. Given the number and volume of new legislation, I will focus on the most important issue of last year's financial market regulation in the European Union, the Banking Union. The Banking Union is the most fundamental change in the financial market since the introduction of the euro and means the greatest delegation of sovereignty to the Union in relation to the financial market. The first pillar of the Banking Union is the Single Banking Supervision Mechanism (SSM). According to this, the participating countries give the European Central Bank the right to decide on the admission, withdrawal and supervision of the capital coverage of banks' significant risks. So the decision-making power in certain matters has been moving from Tallinn to Frankfurt since November this year. At the same time, the supervision work remains mostly in Tallinn and is expected to intensify. The European Union regulation, which is the basis for SSM's activities, consists of a total of 187 articles on more than 100 pages. It is merely a constitution that will be clarified, including in a handbook on surveillance about a thousand pages thick. It is common to all supervisory authorities participating in the SSM. The SSM does not concern the supervision of financial services, nor the supervision of the capital of smaller banks, nor the supervision of the capital of other financial intermediaries. Financial supervision operates under the law and implements the law. The Financial Supervision Authority and SSM will implement the new Banking Capital Requirements Regulation and the relevant Directive transposed into national law. This legislative package, the so-called CRD IV, will increase the level and quality of banks' capital. The minimum requirements for bank liquidity are also laid down. Banks need to create additional buffers for future negative developments and systemically important banks need to create even more buffers to mitigate the risks arising from their size. The CRD IV package is substantial: the Framework Directive contains 165 articles, plus a direct application of the EU Regulation with 521 articles. They have over a hundred mandates for the supervision of the European Central Bank to draw up general mandatory direct regulations for the implementation of the CRD package. 57 Implementing Regulations were developed in 2013 and 30 of them were published in the same year 2013 in the Official Journal of the European Union. The second pillar of the Banking Union harmonises the restructuring of banks. The restructuring of banks will be financed primarily by bank shareholders and by creditors in certain classes. This does not apply to deposits guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund. It is only in the final order that a single recovery fund will come into play, consisting of the contributions made by the banks themselves. The single reorganisation mechanism, i.e. SRM, shall include at least credit institutions subject to SSM supervision. As an institution, the SRM will be located with the European Commission in Brussels and, in essence, the competent authorities of the SRM will decide on the reorganisation of banks there. The heavy and nuanced work of remediation will remain on site, then in Tallinn for us. Estonia also needs to set up a reorganisation institution, which is what the Financial Supervision Authority is intensively dealing with. SRM's activities are based on harmonised rules on bank reorganisation. The SRM acquis can consist of 220 articles, more than 500 pages of legislation, in addition to dozens of powers for the supervision of the European Central Bank to draw up general mandatory direct regulations. Figuratively speaking, SSM is a trainer who keeps and strengthens the health of banks, and SRM is an ambulance doctor who restores life or detects death. More and more areas in the financial market are regulated by the European Commission. About 95% of the Estonian financial market law comes from directives, plus directly applicable EU legislation. In conclusion, two conclusions were reached. Firstly, the mass and detail of regulations, on the one hand, allows better protection for consumers, but on the other hand, is a serious burden for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are all Estonian financial intermediaries in the European Union perspective. It is in our interest that regulation for small businesses is reasonably more lenient than for the engine of entrepreneurship and the creator of jobs. In the area of financial market regulation, it should be stressed that the European Parliament has a major role to play here. Most important financial market legislation is adopted in the codecision procedure between Parliament and the Council of the European Union. It is in Europe's interest and in our interests that the Estonian ambassadors act actively in the European Parliament. Secondly, the most important developments in the Estonian regulated financial market in 2013. Estonia's regulated financial market is dominated by banking groups in terms of the volume of assets. Important segments are also asset management and insurance. 20 credit institutions were active on the Estonian market in 2013, 8 of which were authorised by Estonia, and 12 branches, 5 of which were in liquidation. In the case of branches, capital supervision is carried out mainly by the supervisory authority of their country of origin. The Financial Supervision Authority has tasks here that focus primarily on monitoring the provision of services. The credit institution is primarily engaged in borrowing money and deposit-taking. The loan portfolio of banks increased by 2.5% last year compared to 2012. The decline in loan portfolios since 2009 has slowed down, with marginal growth observed since 2012. Monitoring welcomes the improvement of the quality of the loan portfolio. The share of non-performing loans over 90 days for companies fell to 1.84% and for private individuals to 2.6% of the total loan portfolio. For example, in 2010 it tended to approach 10% in the business segment and in the case of private individuals it was possible to talk about 5%. The volume of deposits involved increased, thereby financing balancing banks. Total deposits amounted to EUR 13.7 billion in 2013. The share of demand deposits has increased from year to year, accounting for approximately 50% of all deposits. Interest on deposits remains low, due inter alia to the general interest environment in which the European Central Bank has already set even negative interest rates. Negative interest means that the bank has to be paid for the deposit. According to the rules, our banks cannot charge negative interest on people's deposits. In 2013, the banking market saw a trend in which smaller banks were looking for new markets and opportunities for growth. Larger banks were rather cautious about taking risks. In the case of larger banks, there was also pressure for cost savings, which occasionally took the form of reputational risk and operational risk. However, there is a clear limit to cost savings, which is the cost of ensuring compliance with the law. In general, banks are well capitalised, have sufficient buffers to cover the risks and the prudential requirements are met by the margin. In the asset management market, many of our supervisors, especially management companies, are active. 18 management companies have been authorised from Estonia. Management companies manage investment funds. The latter volumes have grown steadily. By the end of 2013, the funds had EUR 2.5 billion worth of assets, the latter being close in volume at the end of 2007. However, the structure of the funds has changed since then. In 2013, mandatory pension funds under the second pillar were EUR 1.77 billion, for example in 2006 at half a billion. The return on investment funds was overall positive in 2013. On the basis of the large number of market participants, it can be concluded that there is competition, perhaps less in the case of the second pillar funds. The latter is characterised by very thorough regulation, which, on the one hand, ensures greater protection for unit-holders future pensioners, but not, of course, from fluctuations in market prices. On the other hand, this means less competition to enter the relevant market. The issue of optimal fees for the second pillar funds must remain the subject of analysis, as the volume of funds is rather a growing trend. In particular, insurance relates to compulsory motor insurance and the requirement to secure collateral in connection with credit. There are 14 non-life insurance providers and 5 life insurance companies on the Estonian market, 6 of which are branches. 35 insurance brokers are also worth noting, with 6 branches of foreign insurance brokers added to them. The contributions to non-life insurance and life insurance collected increased compared to 2012. Motor insurance and car insurance still accounted for the majority of non-life insurance. At the same time, a decrease in the relative share of vehicle-related insurance has been observed, the relationship between loss and cost has increased. In the insurance market, with an emphasis on non-life insurance, it could be observed in 2013 that the decline in profitability and the occupation of the market by foreign branches caused certain tensions between Estonian insurers and insurance brokers. The latter have created consumer-friendly solutions that allow branches of foreign insurers to enter the Estonian market relatively easily, as well as consumers to buy insurance quite cheaply. This increases competition, which in turn has an impact on the economic performance of Estonian insurers. On the other hand, there is a certain concentration in the insurance brokers' market which, in the long term, may start to work against the benefits of competition. In conclusion, three conclusions were reached. First, in Estonian banking, the keywords of 2013 were'stability' and'stabilisation'. Secondly, asset management was a year of growth carried by compulsory pension funds in the second pillar. Third, in the case of insurance, the decreasing margins and increasing competition on the market were strained in 2013. Third, trust, i.e. the activities of public financial supervision in 2013. The Financial Supervision Authority is a joint institution between the Estonian state and the central bank. The decisions of the Financial Supervision Authority shall be taken by the Executive Board of at least three persons in a collegial manner. The decisive and visible action of financial supervision is essential for building and maintaining confidence. At 52 meetings in 2013, we decided on 62 administrative acts, including three authorisations. In comparison, three authorisation procedures have already been in place this year, which does not necessarily mean that the authorisation will be granted. These procedures are complex and time-consuming where the applicant's financial capacity, organisation and also persons are assessed. We do not want to see low-quality financial intermediaries on the financial market. Financial intermediary organisations can be larger and smaller, activities complex and simple, their problems will fully open up on the spot. On-the-spot checks were carried out in 2013 in 11 monitoring entities. We have started to place more emphasis on work on the ground, as this is a clear sign of our presence on the market. For example, 22 on-the-spot inspections have already been completed, under way or under preparation this year. The prevention of money laundering and the provision of other financial services are certainly at our attention. The central procedure for banking supervision is to assess the taking, management, capital coverage and organisation of banks' risks by the supervisory authority, which is a so-called "supervised assessment process' of the SREP. It lasts almost a year and requires very extensive documentation, intensive interaction with banks and staff at different levels, etc. As part of the SREPs, in 2013 we made estimates for all credit institutions, which fixed EUR 159 million in additional capital to cover risks. Sometimes it happens that there is a difference of opinion about the activities of financial supervision and that the final truth and the right need to be clarified in court. The Financial Supervision Authority has procedures before the Administrative Court, some of which deal with fundamental financial supervision issues, to what extent and if at all a person has the right to know about the financial supervision procedure applied to a third party, or, for example, whether financial supervision is acting in the public interest or in the private interest. The Supreme Court issued another ruling on the interest on loans against good manners. The final solution was a criminal case of market abuse, namely market manipulation, and the financial penalty was defined as a beautiful one. That year, the Court of First Instance handed down a decision on the case of an investment mishap and sentenced to deprivation of liberty. From the perspective of the financial supervisor, the implementation of criminal law must be seen as a positive sign that serious financial penalties and/or a real sentence of deprivation of liberty are becoming normal. These are the steps for which I have personally been standing for over ten years and which, in my opinion, clearly increase the ownership of the financial sector of the rules. After all, the financial market delivers significant resources belonging to others. The infringements damage the property of other persons. And worst of all, trust in the integrity and transparency of the financial market is being abused. Focusing on this "new normality" is also supported by recent EU legislation. The Financial Supervision Authority is one of the most integrated Estonian state institutions with the European Union. In accordance with European Union legislation, together with the financial supervisory authorities of other Member States, we will vote in the highest decision-making bodies of European banking supervision, European securities supervision and European insurance and employer pensions supervision. These bodies of the European Union are developing directives and regulations, drafts of directly applicable legislation. These authorities, with locations in London, Paris and Frankfurt, will ensure uniform and correct application of the common rules and will resolve the disagreements between the supervisory authorities. This work is largely carried out through and with the support of national supervisory authorities. The Financial Supervision Authority is also part of the SSM. As one of them, we are deciding on matters falling within the competence of the SSM in the banking market in Frankfurt. Depending on future decisions, the Financial Supervision Authority may be involved in the work of the SRM as a reorganisation agency. To sum it up. First, the Financial Supervision Authority carried out its statutory tasks in 2013. In our work, we will act more at certain moments in the future, for example by putting more emphasis on work on the ground, because we want the financial market to be a little more visible. Secondly, the welcome trend in the development of the Financial Supervision Authority is the revival of penal law, as it increases financial intermediaries' ownership and overall confidence in the market. Thirdly, the integration of the Financial Supervision Authority into the supervisory system of the European Union is deepening and covering new areas, as the European Commission wants a real common financial market. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The central task of the Financial Supervision Authority is to maintain financial stability, to ensure the integrity and transparency of financial markets as a whole. The 2013 Annual Book of the Financial Supervision Authority, which has been made available to you, describes the performance of these central functions during the financial year, which is the 11th year of the Financial Supervision Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U82	Thank you very much. We'll get to the questions. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U83	Thank you, dear waitress. The Governor of Eesti Pank said that it is possible to create a network of cooperative banks in Estonia, i.e. to start creating cooperative banks. Since, after all, these banks are probably born more or less on your signature, I ask how do you feel about us developing another banking system alongside foreign banks? This would leave Estonian capital in Estonia and serve Estonia's interests more than the current system. Are you in favour of the development of cooperative banking in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U84	Thank you for your question. Requirements for the operation of credit institutions are regulated by the European Union Directive. It is harmonised across the European Union. Anyone who wants to set up a credit institution in a European Union country must comply with the requirements of the relevant directive, which is incorporated into the law of a Member State. And, of course, if he complies with those requirements, the competent authority will grant him an authorisation. From 4 November, the European Central Bank shall decide on the final level of authorisation of credit institutions through the SSM system. As a supervisor, I have no feelings for my subjects. I've just got the law that I'm applying, and when the law's requirements are met, I'm gonna do what the law says.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U85	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U86	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the issue of fast-track loans and direct lending. While these areas are not directly under your supervision, the issue has recently been on the agenda in practice, and proposals have been made that fast-track lending and direct lending should also be under the supervision of the Financial Supervision Authority. Today, there are more than a hundred companies operating in this field in Estonia, and the requirements for them are vague. Obviously, they're not enough. I admit that consumer protection could also do a much better job than they are now doing in this area. What is your position: should the legislator take any action?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U87	Thank you for your question. In the case of fast-track loans, we are talking in terms of supervision about a phenomenon that can be taken as consumer credit. The provision of consumer credit and the provision of relevant pre-contractual information to consumers and related obligations are governed by a single European Union directive. As far as supervision is concerned, it is indeed a fact that the Financial Supervision Authority has not verified the granting of consumer credit outside credit institutions. At the same time, we have realised that society senses that there are problems with such fast-track loans. One way to solve this problem is through additional regulation or supervision. Since 2014, the Financial Supervision Authority has a new board, and when we consulted the new board on this issue, we found that our house has the know-how needed to grant these licences and supervise the financial sector in question. If the state, in particular in the form of a legislator, decides that the Financial Supervision Authority is the appropriate supervisor over consumer credit providers, then we are ready to take it on, even though this is a challenge for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U88	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for a meaningful review. My question goes on to the exact same issue that a good colleague, Kalle Palling, has just asked about. I would like to continue the discussion on consumer credit and fast-track credit. I am pleased to hear that you are ready to take responsibility when political decision-makers make such a decision. But I ask you, as head of the Financial Supervision Authority, if you feel that there are problems in society in this area. The second question is that it is very likely to involve costs, you will also be forced to increase staff, provide additional training for your employees, etc. So far, according to the principle of independence, it has been financed by market participants and no separate receipts have come from the state budget. Do you expect market participants, or consumer credit companies, to finance this supervision too?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U90	Quite a few questions. If we look at the number of our surveillance subjects, it's a little over a hundred. In the case of consumer credit providers, of course, everything depends on how the legislator determines the scope of the law to which it will apply. But if we take short-term lenders, there's gonna be another hundred. In this sense, it is a major challenge for us; we are unlikely to be able to cope with the existing workforce. Obviously, we need to review our organization. We also need to review our organisation with regard to the SSM I was talking about, and with regard to the SRM, I suppose. So this is a broader process. Now for the funding. There are different models for financing financial supervision. As far as independent financial supervisors are concerned, the most common model in Europe is market financing rather than public funding. This is directly linked to the requirement of independence of financial supervision and to the cyclical nature of the economy. Financial supervision is always needed more when the economy is at a bad time than there is a recession, but this decline also has an impact on the state budget. So you'd rather keep it separate from the state budget. In other words, a short answer: if the Financial Supervision Authority were to take over the supervision of fast-track loans, I believe that this activity should be financed by the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U91	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you referred to the need to strengthen financial discipline and you also mentioned that fines are insufficient. In the inspection, have you thought about proposing to the legislator how to significantly improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a question about virtual money. The best-known example is some kind of bitcoin. Neither Estonian laws nor acts of the European Union regulate the use of this money. Do you think we should take some steps in the future to complement the laws in this area? And could the Financial Supervision Authority have any role to play in supervising this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U94	The issue of virtual and crypto money has been discussed between central banks and supervisors, but at least at the level of harmonisation in the European Union has not moved beyond this. The reason probably is that they have so far been relatively low. At this stage, I believe it is reasonable to inform people, and that is what we in the Financial Supervision Authority have tried to do with our writings. We have tried to warn people that crypto money also involves certain risks that there are not only opportunities involved. Sometimes people in such financial services think that they are only opportunities and forget about the risks. So there must be someone who does unpleasant or perhaps pleasant work to draw attention to these risks. That's what we've been doing with crypto money. Will we proceed with the regulation at this stage? I don't think so, purely in my gut.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U95	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Chairman of the Board, I would also like to speak from the point of view of the ordinary citizen, the consumer. It turns out that in Sweden and Estonia, the same bank treats clients differently, no one has the responsibility of either Eesti Pank or the Financial Supervision Authority. I would also like to thank you for calming us that the negative interest rates imposed by the European Central Bank cannot be applied to the deposits of ordinary depositors in Estonia. Well, we can't today, and we don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. But one such practical, allegedly positive transition to the so-called European settlement with huge long account numbers has led to banks no longer having to check where they put their money. Is there nothing we can do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U97	Probably or actually quite certain that any errors and the removal of the consequences of payment services to which you refer have been regulated by the Law of Obligations Act. If a payment order has been wrongly issued to a person who does not need to receive the money, then there are possibilities to recover the money from the legal perspective. As regards any level of tolerance imposed by payment service providers on themselves and their customers, it can be said that the risk/cost ratio involved must always be assessed, i.e. the number of erroneous payment orders on the one hand and the cost of developing possible IT solutions to avoid them. So far, it seems that there is not much of a cost involved in making erroneous payment orders. These problems have been solved by agreement between the parties without leading to any major IT developments that would completely rule out these errors. But avoiding any such mistakes costs something and you have to find the optimism. Every business organization has this optimism set within itself. Of course, it cannot be ruled out that, for example, in Estonia, the legislator says that yes, if you have a payment account, there must be this and this thing. It cannot be ruled out that the law requires such clarification. If so, once again: we in financial supervision are happy to be able to implement this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U98	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Mr Sester takes the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you once again to the Head of the Financial Supervision Authority for its substantive feedback and annual review. In my speech, I will focus mainly on what led to my question. On the one hand, it is right that activities such as the implementation of the SSM and the various other ongoing tasks that the Financial Supervision Authority currently has are important. On the other hand, however, the problems related to consumer credit are also a serious challenge. Looking at developments in the last six months in the work of Parliament as a legislator, and also in the work of the government as an executive authority, all activities indicate that changes in the area of consumer credit supervision are expected in the near future. I hope that happens. In the case of the Financial Supervision Authority, it has been very good and right, in my opinion, that throughout the period during which the institution has existed in Estonia, it has been independent in nature, both in its activities and financially. The management of the Financial Supervision Authority has brought it out with pride, and I think it is right. The independence of its activities has been that, regardless of the coalition at the centre of power, the control bodies of the Financial Supervision Authority, in the form of the supervisory board and the management board, have been unwelcome. Unless, of course, there's a criminal charge. Thus, the shifts of power do not change the role of the Financial Supervision Authority, which cannot be said of state enterprises whose councils change with the change of coalition, as we have seen. And there's financial independence. It is an organisation financed by market participants. There are also various procedural fees. There is no separate line of expenditure in the state budget for him and this is very positive. On behalf of both myself and the entire Group of the IRL, I encourage the Financial Supervision Authority to take on this future task of consumer credit. The IRL Group believes that this is a very important issue in Estonian society. If we finally come to a situation where companies operating in this market have to hold a licence and report on their activities, this will ultimately lead to the organisation of this service sector. We believe that the Financial Supervision Authority has the necessary competence for this work, and if there is a need, then further training can be done to be able to act operationally. But at least they've been active on this market before. We call on the entire management of the Financial Supervision Authority to reflect on the draft laws on consumer credit. We call on them to play a positive role and to inform both Parliament and the government of their advice on regulation should the inspection start to control this area. In general, I think it's this way. At the time of legislation, however, it would be a good idea to get practical advice from the Financial Supervision Authority, after all, it has dealt with both insurance companies and banks and other financial institutions in the financial market. Once again, on behalf of our group, I thank you for this review. We would like to see issues relating to consumer credit and SMS loans in your portfolio in the near future. Perhaps one year after listening to your review, we will also be able to learn about the changes in the supervision of companies operating in this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U100	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U101	As far as violations of the financial sector are concerned, perhaps the most obvious drawing is the situation where potential offenders calculate the extent to which the benefits, the likelihood of getting caught and the failure to get caught are possible. A simple calculation will show the infringer that they are not stupid people, when it is useful to break the rules. This leads to a simple principle: financial penalties must not be low. Financial penalties must be so high that they are inclined to break the rules in the financial market. If we look at the past now, because of our criminal law regime, we have two choices: there are misdemeanors and there are crimes. Misdemeanours are less serious offences, and fines for them are awfully small, given the size of the financial sector. On the other hand, when we look at developments in the European Union, the directives provide for significantly higher financial penalties. That is where the view comes that Estonia must review its penal regime and, to my knowledge, with the help of the Financial Supervision Authority, that is what the Ministry of Justice is doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U102	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Financial Supervision Authority! I'm asking about bank fees. As we know, in Sweden, bank fees are much lower than in Estonia. Does the Financial Supervision Authority have the possibility to intervene in deciding on the amount of fees charged by banks or are these fees formed by the rules of the free market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U104	Thank you. These are free market charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U105	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U106	Thank you, good Chairman. Thanks to the waitress! Gradually, we are growing in movement such as savings and loan cooperatives. One of the biggest ones is in Tartu, and I think it's already bringing together 300 companies. They are not known to have any banking regulations and there is no supervisory organisation to control them. Do you think the Financial Supervision Authority could and should do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U107	Mr Hansson, speaking earlier, said that the volumes of savings and loan cooperatives were relatively small compared to the loan portfolios and deposits of banks. From there, the question arises where the risk tolerance of society lies. From what borders does society feel that the benefits of supervision outweigh the potential risks borne by this sector? What am I saying? That financial supervision is not free of charge. It is a relatively expensive activity, but it is being dealt with because it has been found that financial supervision, as such, costs society less than possible collapses of financial intermediaries. This also applies to savings loan cooperatives. They are not subject to financial supervision and if one of the savings and loan cooperatives becomes insolvent, this may mean that depositors, or members of the savings and loan association, will lose all or part of their money. And it gives rise to dissatisfaction. Is this dissatisfaction small enough not to be taken into account, or is it so great that it should be taken into account? I'm not in that position to decide these things. I think that these decisions will be the result of discussion between the various social groups and, ultimately, the relevant draft will reach your table and perhaps the proposal will materialise in the form of a law. Or not. As a supervisor, I do not have a personal opinion on this; the law does not regulate it; savings and loan cooperatives in our field of view are not in terms of supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U108	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U109	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, From your report, I understand that your main task is to monitor the big picture of banking supervision so that the financial institutions operating in Estonia are reliable. But I'm asking about the level of the individual. We know that Nordic banks operating in Estonia behave differently to Estonian customers by laying down rules in their home country, such as taking home loans, and also the online transfer fee. Does the Financial Supervision Authority have any means to influence these banks to change their rules in Estonia, or should the law be amended?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U110	Firstly, this question included the assumption that Nordic banks operating in Estonia treat their customers differently from the practices of their parent banks. I do not know such facts, but I take the assumption that there was in this matter as the truth. On this assumption, I will take a step forward. The extent to which banks are regulated is, of course, up to the discretion of each Member State, of course outside the harmonised rulebook. I was talking about the CRD IV that capital regulation is harmonised, consumer credit is harmonised. Let's see what else we got. We have the law on debt protection, we have the law on bankruptcy, which could help, above all, the self-borrowers, we have the law on the reorganisation of businesses. The kind of control society wants to see in this area for one or the other party, which guarantees one or the other party, is ultimately a matter of agreement, and this agreement is expressed here in the decisions of Parliament in the form of laws. So if you ask whether there are systemic problems in the financial market from the point of view of financial supervision, the answer is: 'No. ' It is not, as no credit institution in Estonia became insolvent during the last crisis. And that's actually how we all won. We didn't have to pay off the banks. In particular, it was not the depositors' banks who would take the money from depositors and continue to borrow it, and they would not have to take it anywhere. I repeat: this is a matter of social agreement. As agreed in the form of laws, we will implement this agreement in financial supervision. And we're going to do it exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U111	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U112	The next item is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision "Revocation of a member of the National Opera Board and appointment of a new member" draft 686. I would remind you that the reading of such a draft is in accordance with § 117 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act and must end with a final vote. Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before you is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the National Opera Board and appointment of a new member" 686. According to the National Opera Act, the Riigikogu appoints three members of the Riigikogu to the National Opera Council on a proposal from the Cultural Commission. The Council is the highest governing body of the National Opera and consists of 11 members. Currently members of the Riigikogu are Marko Mihkelson, Ester Tuiksoo and Imre Sooäär. In addition to these, two other members, appointed by the Minister of Culture according to the National Opera Act, are currently Eri Klas, who is also chairman of the Council, and Paavo Nõgene; one member appointed by the Minister of Education and Research (now Andres Pung); one member appointed by the Minister of Finance (now Tea Varrak) and one member appointed by the Council of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre (now Peep Lassmann). In addition, Riina Viiding, appointed member of the board of the Estonian Theatre Association, and René Eespere, appointed member of the board of the Composers Association, as well as Ants Wõrk, appointed member of the board of the Estonian Society. At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on Culture decided to propose to the Riigikogu that Marko Mihkelson, a member of the Riigikogu, be recalled from the Council of the National Opera and appoint a member of the Riigikogu, Maimu Berg, to replace him. The third decision was that the decision would enter into force when it was signed. All three decisions were adopted with five votes in favour, one against and no abstentions. I'm done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U114	Any questions for the waitress? Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U115	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. You mentioned a number of names, including the name of Andres Punga, representative of the Ministry of Education and Research. As far as I know, this person no longer works at the Ministry of Education and Science. What kind of relationship does he have with the National Opera Board if he should be a member of the Board appointed by the Ministry of Education and Research?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U116	It is true that very many institutions present their representatives to the National Opera Council. The Riigikogu presents three members of the Riigikogu Council, the rest of the people are representatives of other institutions. The composition of the Council shall be approved by the Minister of Culture in accordance with the National Opera Act. If it is necessary for the Minister for Education and Science to send another person to the Council, they will have the opportunity. If you think it is necessary, we can discuss this with the Minister and the Ministry can make this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U117	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Here's the question. I realized that this decision would call our good colleague Marko Mihkelson back and replace him with another person. Why do we make such a decision in a beautiful pre-summer? Is there a reason? Has Marko Mihkelson failed to carry out his duties, or are there other, subjective reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U119	In my opinion, Marko Mihkelson has done very well with the duties of a member of the Council. I personally have no complaints about his work, and I have not received any complaints from others. However, as such a proposal has come from our partners, the Committee on Culture discussed it and decided, in five votes, that a small update in the Council would only be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U120	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U121	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that the Committee on Culture discussed this issue. I am interested in the content and outcome of this debate. What were the reasons why you found it best to renew the Commission by replacing Marko Mihkelson? There are members who've been there longer than Marko Mihkelson, right? Maybe you'll open it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U122	I'd love to. The result of the debate in the Committee on Culture was clear, and I have already reported it to you: to replace Marko Mihkelson, a member of the Council, with a new member of the Council, in the form of Maimu Berg. The result of the vote was that 5 members of the Commission were in favour, with one against.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U123	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 117 of the Rules of Procedure Act, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask a question during the discussion of such a topic. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U124	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I am pleased that you have recognised Marko Mihkelson's work so far as a member of the Council. I think he has done very well in this role, too. But my question is based on your answer, where you said that he was replaced by a partner. What kind of partner are we talking about? Is this a cultural organisation? Was it a national opera or a social organization?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U125	This partner is our coalition partner.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U126	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question that when your coalition partner proposed it must have been someone specific. And secondly, how did you come to the decision to recall Marko Mihkelson, not Ester Tuiksoo, whom I have absolutely nothing against? How did you develop this understanding in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U128	This understanding was very simple because one candidate was presented, whose candidacy we had to decide on. We didn't have a lot of other alternatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U129	Thank you. No further questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. There is no wish to negotiate. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed a final vote on the draft 686. I am voting on the Riigikogu decision 'Revocation of a member of the National Opera Board and appointment of a new member' draft 686. Please take a stand and vote. There were 48 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the decision, 17 against and no abstentions. The decision of the Riigikogu has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U130	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Road Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In order to ensure a uniform weighting of budget expenditure and to ensure compliance with the requirement of structural balance of the State Budget Act, this draft will decouple the volume of road maintenance financing from the estimated fuel excise duty. The current linking is very exceptional, its rate is arbitrary and the tea economy is not logically placed on a special status compared to that of another country. Nor is it logical to change the rate of excise duty on fuel in the same direction as the financing of the road. The result is often too large and expensive road objects, which do not ensure sustainable and targeted funding for road maintenance. The decision on the volume of road maintenance funding will be linked to the national budget strategy. The planning of road maintenance financing, depending on the country's fiscal strategy, will allow for a stronger relationship between road maintenance objectives and other national tasks. The list of sites financed by road maintenance shall be provided by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications when drawing up the country's budget strategy. If necessary, the road management plan will be revised every year, together with a review of the country's budgetary strategy. The draft relates to the state budget for the coming year and is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2015. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U132	Questions for the waitress. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U133	Thank you, honourable waitress, for a thorough and quick review. The question is about the flexibility of road funding and your assessment of the work done by the Road Administration. As we know, the Road Administration has spent money for several years in a row, and there is no indication that the decoupling of road savings from excise duty should be prevented. In my opinion, it makes everything more flexible, there is no need for money to be used at all costs so that the bill is empty by the end of the year. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U134	I don't blame the Highway Department in this hall. If I do, I'll go straight to them. Still, they have greatly improved their work, reorganized them, and began to review their overdrive so as not to repeat them. However, it really does not make sense that if we receive some kind of forecast of excise duty receipts, we will immediately be clear that we need so many kilometres of tea at this price. After all, we do not yet know the results of the procurement or anything exactly to match this 75%. This is not going to work anyway, and sometimes money is not used, sometimes more than 75% is used. It's perfectly natural. All recipients of funds from the budget must be more or less in an equal position to justify their needs. The exception is certainly a socially very sensitive area where the law must provide for, for example, the amount of benefits or the amount of the medical budget or pensions. These are things that need to be fixed rigidly. Roads such as this must certainly not be included in these priorities, even though they are one of the important areas in the country's activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U135	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Unfortunately, you did not consider the Commission to be honoured, and there we failed to see you in the debate on this issue. I'll ask you now. There has been talk about the equal position of all recipients of funds from the budget, but it is known that the Tea Act provided for the principle that the user would pay in due time. After all, excise duty is paid by those who use fuel, and that fuel they burn in cars that use you. So these people are paying to make sure the tea's okay. Now you want the 'user pays' principle to remain in force, but you want to spend that money somewhere else. Do you think, then, in ten years' time, our roads will be almost impenetrable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U137	I guess it was me, not the chairman. But I'm sorry, I couldn't come to the Committee on Economic Affairs because I was held up by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Its members have begun to claim that I wasn't there, but I was there for several hours straight, and I was hit with a heavy fire. Don't spoil the hope that the roads will become impenetrable! Roads can be funded according to needs. The principle that the user pays is more in your head, there's no such thing in the law. Rather, the 'polluter pays' principle is a priority for excise duties, and pollution can be widely interpreted. The fact that we're financing you from the excise duty remains the same. It's just that there's not gonna be any sign of whether the money from income tax or excise duty has been used. As I said, if we increase excise duties on fuel according to budget or environmental needs, then there will be no automatic need to build you more. It doesn't! According to the current law, it's like it's happening. Or vice versa, if the generous Riigikogu thinks that fuel is too expensive and we are subject to excise duty, will it reduce the need for proper roads? No, on the contrary, they'll start driving more and they'll wear more roads. So this bonding is illogical and unreasonable, and it was clearly established on the basis of official greed. It's too bad we couldn't get a hand on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U138	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U139	Thank you. Good minister! You said that the current linking of road safety funding to fuel excise is exceptional. In my opinion, it has still been a very long-term system. It has worked for years, worked even if we had several times the national budget. How, then, is it an exception if it has been long - term?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U140	Exceptionality and long-termity do not preclude each other in any way; there is no connection. The exception is in the sense that one tax is linked virtually entirely directly to this user in an upside-down way. Higher liver, less driving, but more roads, it doesn't make any sense. The exception is that one tax does not come into the state budget, which is the purpose of each tax, and the exception is that the excise duty, which should be the brake on consumption, actually creates additional conditions for consumption. You can't do that. Which does not mean, however, that we are going to compromise on the quality of roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U141	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Listen and wonder! For road money to be reduced, this is due to objects that can be built expensively. Mr. former Prime Minister wonders, the current Minister for Finance, who was also a minister when these objects were built, wonders. Then why were they built? And why has the government approved a road maintenance development plan? The Head of the Road Administration has said that politicians should explain where the EUR 25 million cut money should be found so that roads can stay in the same condition. Have politicians told the Head of the Road Administration where the money could be found or which objects should not be built?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U143	Politicians tell the head of the Road Administration a number of things. On the one hand, they give him a road plan drawn up by the government, on the other hand, they tell him that it is not his money and it is not his place to make such statements. It is not for any official of the state to claim and speak of things as if he were betting his money on the roads from his great heart. No, he's taking that money from taxpayers and other expenses. And that's always the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U144	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U145	Thank you. Dear Minister, I do not have a direct question about the law of tea, but it has something to do with it. This concerns tasks and organisation of government work. As we know, tea law is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and you do it by yourself. Today we have before us the Minister of Finance with amendments to the Tea Act, while we know that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications is involved in ensuring the availability of cash in Estonia. Has there been any division in the government's work and administration in any way before the amendment to the Government Act, or has it happened that the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Finance dealt with the roads in monetary matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U146	The question is relevant, but the answer is that the tasks in the government are divided but not reallocated. Neither of these issues has been shared with anyone before.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U147	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U148	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! My question concerns the following: Yesterday, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Urve Palo expressed the idea in this very hall that, in the context of the adoption of this law, now that problems arise with the construction of vital objects, à la Tallinna Tartu road, you could borrow. How does the Ministry of Finance feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U149	It feels like the beginning of the thing. I'm sure he'll be more specific. We must not, in itself, set up tasks such as building something quickly and fixing the country once and for all, and taking the money from somewhere big. The fact is that the Estonian state, whose budget includes a large amount of the European Union budget, which exceeds our payments to the EU budget, already overheats certain areas, creating imbalances in the economy. These inconsistencies must not be further aggravated. We have, of course, a huge amount of money put into the roads in the early years of membership of the European Union, and it makes sense that we still have a priority such as the development of a road network. But to say that this priority still needs to be set as a priority, for which money must be borrowed without limit, without limit, is certainly wrong. This has been demonstrated many times by our partners in the European Union. We have extra money in the European Union budget for roads, which will allow you to finance better than many other areas. Loan talk isn't the right signal. But let us leave it to the Minister of Finance to decide what sources of funding are. My decision is that, according to the agreement with the European Investment Bank, it is appropriate to use public money as co-financing for road projects, which is a small part of the total budget and does not cause major problems, but reduces tensions in the budget and increases the amount of tax receipts in a different way. Please leave it to the Minister of Finance. To promote borrowing as such, just to promote a larger number of driving lines somewhere, this is definitely something that does not need to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U150	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U151	Thank you. As far as I know, the budget is a plan of how much money we have to spend for one purpose or another. And if, under any positive or negative circumstances, there is a reason for the cheapening of procurement or for the cancellation of a project or the disputes that delay the execution of the projects at one point or another, then let it remain. There is no obligation to spend by the end of this year. Mr Palling here argued that if road money comes into the budget on the basis that 75% of the excise duty on fuel is due, it will have to be spent by the end of the year, and if it comes into the budget in any other way, it will not have to be spent by the end of the year. I don't think it's right to say that. Please comment on whether I have misunderstood or whether there is another mismatch here!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U152	Kalle Palling's got it right. If the law states that 75% of the estimated excise duty is to be put on the road, then it must be done by only four, even though Nordecon and Merko have challenged each other's procurement winnings seven times by referring to different points in court. It's extremely complicated. It was also extremely difficult to implement this year's budget when the Minister for Economic Affairs opposed not having some of the projects ready and unable to channel European Union money into the roads at the expected pace. That is why we had to tighten our money in all the other ranks and he had to step up the preparation of projects. It doesn't make any sense. This is uneconomic and unreasonable at all. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U153	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U154	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Over-dimensioned technical facilities, road objects have been mentioned here on several occasions. But another practical problem is, in my opinion, the long time that objects are completed, which is also related to this somewhat clumsy law. When we travel around Estonia, we see that after 5 p.m. no one works. Even on the weekend, the machines stand, no work is done on the objects. Could measures be put in place to shorten the time of completion of the sites? It doesn't fit my mind how expensive road construction machines can work with a third of the load on the road rollers, buckets, asphalt spreaders. In other countries, such as Finland, we do not see machines standing idle on the weekend and at night.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U155	This is certainly economically very good thinking. But I wouldn't give an estimate of the reasons behind it, whether the starting dates have been loose, whether there is a limp left just in case, which can be used as holidays. I can't tell you why. But I do not agree with one thing: the fact that this regulation is much more effective elsewhere. I have just wondered that in certain large cities where I often have to go to Europe, a roadblock and a standing machine, without any workers, seems to be a perfectly normal thing. I'd rather not understand it. In Estonia, however, work is done quite well and I am very pleased that the work culture is also visible in the construction of roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U156	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U157	Thank you. Minister of Finance! At the end of last year, your party partner, who replaced Andrus Ansip, presented his report here. He did this as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, and this concerned the financing of local roads. Andre Sepp said, among other things, that, where possible, the amount allocated to the municipal road maintenance needs to be increased and that the total volume of local roads of 23,900 kilometres assumes that there is a need for financing of EUR 120 million each year. In that case, all local roads would be blacked out in 25 years. I understand there was another coalition at the end of last year and its criticism could be directed at the Minister of Roads, Juhan Parts. But what do you say as Minister of Finance? When do we get to the point that local roads are going to receive 120 million euros a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U158	I think that, if necessary, we can also talk about an amount of magnitude or two, and it is still possible to spend the money. Andre Sepp, on the other hand, barely directed his criticism of the Minister of Economic Affairs; rather, he developed the blood of a local government character. To say that the need for money is exactly like this, and that all local roads must be blackmailed, I think it's a little arbitrary, but he's not sensitive to self-governance. The current coalition has agreed that the financing of local roads under this legislative amendment must not suffer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U159	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U160	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good minister! You said that the idea of road excise was not so much to maintain roads, but to reduce the use of cars and so-called road consumption. Does the government, then, plan to make roads so much worse with this bill that the use of roads becomes almost impossible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U161	Even the previous government didn't plan anything like this, not even now. But then I will specify that a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will certainly be able to monitor. As I said, excise duty, by definition, always serves two purposes. Firstly, making consumption more expensive, which will certainly reduce demand. This is a very noble objective due to the harmful side effects of road transport. And the second goal is to get money into the budget. According to the current law, this link is questionable. Regulation does not inhibit demand, it does not reduce demand, rather it automatically improves the condition of roads by allocating a fixed amount. This certainly does not bring substantial money to the budget, but rather to asphalt. That logic must be broken. This logic must be broken so that the state can consider the needs of all areas equally and decide, for my sake, to fund you even five times if it is wise. But the logic so far is wrong. This reduces the chances of keeping the budget sustainable and also hampers future road funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U162	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U163	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I read the explanatory memorandum to the bill and find remarkable phrases in it that make me think. You are saying here that the financing of road storage at the expense of excise revenue does not fulfil the objective of ensuring transparent, targeted and sustainable road management. I don't understand. I think this regulation is more transparent than throwing money into a common boiler. And I will read on: the funding of road safety is not an important source of funding, but a means of achieving road safety goals. If it doesn't matter, why switch these sources? You're spinning and spinning. Isn't the real reason that the Treasury is empty? You're just looking everywhere for money to somehow move our country forward. You have long seen signs that you are running out of money, Mr. Secretary of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U164	I couldn't fix this whole fairy tale, but I'm trying to comment. If getting money into the budget for you is throwing money into the boiler, then in the next debate, for example, when it comes to child support, education or cultural funding, repeat your thesis. Let's argue. We're not out of money. It is simply necessary to consider the current needs of the various areas in a very substantial way, not to ensure that all areas are financed by automation, which ultimately leaves everyone poor. This is a general principle. There is no doubt that if there is an obligation to spend one lumpy budget at any cost, regardless of how the dispute settlement and project preparation are progressing, the state of the roads at any given moment, the efficiency of the use of the money will be reduced. Rather, the temptation is to do the right multi-line and proud, with quite large additions. We can also see this around Tallinn. It is much better to consider alternatives and share money more evenly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U165	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U166	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that we are processing this bill because Estonian roads have received too much money at the time of the depression and that the Road Administration, who wants the Estonian roads to be in order, wants to fix you? The report gives a few examples of good time decisions when cars were added to Estonian roads every year by thousands. So have you been so well funded, and everything's fine, so you don't need a lot of money there anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U167	You must have misunderstood. But I admit, I don't always understand everything either. I didn't quite understand what you were saying. But you misunderstood. There was a question, the answer is, "No. '
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U168	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of Finance! Speaking of Andre Sepa, you mentioned that he's the blood of a local government character. There's a lot of people in this hall with the same local government character's blood flowing in them. And I think it is rather surprising for them to look at the annex to the draft explanatory memorandum, which contains a table of coordination. Here are the seven proposals or comments made by the Estonian Cities Association on what this draft could take into account in any way. It is strange that, in the old days, when some proposals were taken into account, none of them were accepted. Is that some kind of principle that you don't need to listen to local governments at all, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U170	When listening to local governments, it is always necessary to distinguish their interests from a rational argument. If there is anyone's interest in getting more money, a larger piece to himself, then the state must consider whether the interest of society as a whole coincides with it. Today, however, everything is being negotiated with local governments, while not all local governments and local governments are talking seriously to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U171	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U172	Thank you. Dear Minister, We have a number of revenue-related expenditures in the state budget, such as social taxes, unemployment insurance contributions, the reserves of which have increased over time, pollution charges, gambling taxes, which are received in different places and which are partly shared by the Council, etc. Untying all of them would increase the flexibility of the state budget. Why did the government decide that only funding for roads would be sacrificed to budgetary flexibility? Or is it a major ideological change? Perhaps you plan to decouple all existing revenue-related expenditure from it in order to maximise budget flexibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U173	There is, of course, no ideological change. But this distribution of excise duty is an illogical exception. However, in the case of some of the items you mentioned, I agree that decoupling would allow the money to be used more efficiently, even in this very area. This principle has not changed, and that, by the way, we could discuss in the previous government. So it is that most budget lines can't want a fixed tax piece. Most! And the roads should certainly be among the common majority, not like the few unconventional ones of the sickness fund. For example, in the case of social tax, you are talking about tying, but basically the part of the pension is no longer linked, the pension is paid heavily for other taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U174	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U175	Thank you. In answering my previous question, you said that if there is a budget line that is different in other ways, then the money on this line must also be treated differently. I spoke with the former Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, a moment ago, who confirmed that this money has still been used in a reasonable manner in the current practice. If it is clear at the end of the year that some projects have not started or that something has gone cheaper, then just as with other investment instruments, it is possible to propose that this money be transferred to the new year. This has been the case in the past and could continue to be the case. What argument or a lawkeeper does your claim suggest that one case should, as if, be forced to spend money and another case can be transferred to the new year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U176	You have to make sure you have the money in the budget, you have to start spending it. But you mentioned Juhan, my good friend, I have begun to doubt whether he is a member of the Riigikogu, because I have not seen him here in the last few months. If he's a man and he wants to say something, he can come and say it and ask him himself. I've never seen him in this hall. Today was the first time I saw anyone in the hallway. All right, man, and don't push women in front of you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U177	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U178	Thank you. Good minister! I will continue on the subject of flexibility which Helir-Valdor Seeder asked about. Flexibility is a great thing, but you only apply it in one area in order to reduce budget expenditure in this area. There was a very specific plan to implement these changes in the use of gambling tax, make it equally flexible, untie it. Why is it that you are trying to realise this great objective, the flexibility of the budget, only in one very narrow area and not more broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U179	I'm actually trying to carry it out more widely. The abolition of tax incentives also serves the interests of budgetary flexibility. No part of the money will be taken away automatically, and in the case of KIC, for example, we have managed to do so in the field of environmental charges. Gambling tax really didn't work out. But I've defended this position many times, and I'm glad you support it. Such rigid binding is illogical, leads to dropouts in certain areas, while in some other areas the need for emergency remains unsolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-10_U180	It's 1:00 and 4 seconds, the hearing's over. We'll pick it up tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1.04 p.m.
