ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister and ministers! Let's start today's briefing. Today's date is November 5th and it's 1:00. Checking for presence. Currently 38 members of the Riigikogu have signed up and there are no 63 members of the Riigikogu. We're going to the subject of Question Time today. The following members of the government participate in Question Time: Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütt and Minister of Health and Labour Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U2	Kadri Simson has registered the first question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and the subject is the report of the National Audit Office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U3	Thank you. Dear Taavi in the garment! The day before yesterday, Auditor General Alar Karis handed over the report of the National Audit Office to the Riigikogu, which is critical. I quote: 'Against the background of a small open economy and a laissez faire' economic policy, the danger of becoming increasingly inescapable and dependent on external forces in order to justify the lack of ideas, the involuntary and comfort of reforms, and not to change.' What, in your opinion, are the three most topical issues that emerged from the report, which should be a government priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U4	Thank you. The report of the National Audit Office is, as always, very constructive, but at the same time points to places where progress could be faster, where more could happen. That's why we need this document. If the report wasn't critical at all, we wouldn't need it. Although the National Audit Office supports the objectives set by the Government in the main, we can certainly find places where it says that you can move even faster towards these goals. If we take the specific aspects that the National Audit Office has emphasised and among which you asked me to highlight some, for example, increasing the impact of business policy is an issue that we will certainly resolve with the introduction of European Union money for the next period. We are planning about EUR 1 billion to contribute in one way or another to the increase in productivity in the Estonian economy. Of course, this is primarily a matter of the business environment; only euro money will not achieve this. The sustainability of social security is also one of the problems raised by the National Audit Office. They actually say quite explicitly that Estonia needs a reform of its working capacity. Estonia also needs to develop its pension system in order to ensure the sustainability of the pension system. Issues related to the organisation of the school network and the oil shale industry are also mentioned. In my opinion, these are perfectly correct and rational recommendations. I could say that the government's policy is even one in many of these issues, in line with what the National Audit Office recommends.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U5	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U6	It is nice that you, as Prime Minister, agree with the National Audit Office in your thoughts, but I also find the following sentence in the report: 'As Auditor General, I am [---] forced again to admit that significant breakthroughs in solving many of the key issues have not taken place during the year. ' If you also consider the behaviour of your party partner, a fresh member of the Monetary Commission, yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it is quite the impression that the government actually likes to blame rather than listening to the National Audit Office and thinking about it. Yesterday, for example, it was claimed that the National Audit Office uses the wrong invoice and wrong methodology, and the report has a hundred more problems at all. Is the indiscriminate accusation of the National Audit Office not the reason why the problems presented in the report recur year after year? If more detailed, for example, one outstanding question is the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010, which declared the failure to give legislative acts that would provide funding for the tasks assigned to local governments to be incompatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U7	Thank you. It is elementary to be methodically correct and to use as much new data as possible. Every criticism must also be accurate and constructive, and the National Audit Office must also strive for this. However, I dare say that the criticisms of the National Audit Office are largely constructive. If anyone finds any methodological doubts there, I wouldn't blame it either. They can always do their job even better. The National Audit Office expects breakthroughs in several areas. One of the breakthroughs they are looking for, and I believe in realising, is the reform of working capacity. This ball is currently in Parliament's hands. The National Audit Office says that we cannot proceed in the same way. I agree with that in any case. The National Audit Office also probably expects us to take the next step in making use of European Union money as soon as possible and take the services provided by local governments to a new level, etc. This breakthrough has not yet taken place, but we are on our way to it, and I am convinced that we will be able to take a very long step forward in the next four months. There are other topics that the National Audit Office emphasises. Let us take, for example, the precise distribution of the functions of the municipalities mentioned by you, which is a self-governing task, which is the task of the state and how best to provide these services. This, too, is in the government's work and should be completed within the deadline of this year. All these issues will be addressed. I'd still be optimistic and say you'll definitely see a breakthrough now, in a few months.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U8	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! I believe that your two colleagues will be able to discuss the reform of working capacity throughout the next Question Time. There are many ways and solutions to achieve each goal. Some roads are longer and some seem smoother at first, but later turn out to be quite a hot patch, which can end in a dead end. But I'm asking you about another subject. For years, we have been debating which tax system would take Estonia's life forward. So far, this dispute has remained at a world-view level, a debate of politicians. Why can't the state order an independent study of the impact of different tax systems on Estonia's development? Why is the government afraid of such a study?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U10	... by offering a tax burden, as is the position of your group, but we can improve it by reducing the tax burden on labour and making tax fraud more difficult in order to ensure fair competition. We make paying taxes easier for people and businesses, as cumbersome as possible. As far as independent international comparisons are concerned, the Estonian state does not need to go alone to order them, as comparisons are made independently of us in many places. As far as the tax system is concerned specifically, you have probably read this study by very prominent authors, which says that among OECD countries, i.e. among the most prosperous and successful countries in the world, the most competitive and attractive Estonian tax system is valued. I think it's an honor. The slogan would be to go and change it; the slogan would be to start to suddenly increase the tax burden. But I don't have the illusions that I can somehow dissuade the Centre Party. It is up to the voters, then, to decide whether higher taxes, as you propose, or rather to continue the current course and lower labour taxes, as the Reform Party considers appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U11	Thank you very much. Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U12	Thank you. The plan of the Centre Party is certainly not a system to raise taxes, but that the wealthier and more well-paid people pay more tax. My question, however, is that the National Audit Office has stressed very seriously over several years that our health insurance is not sustainable and, according to him, the WHO, the World Health Organisation, said already in 2010, that something needs to be done about it. The National Audit Office emphasised the same subject last year and the year before, but yet we have done nothing. Our treatment queues are increasing, as shown by the graphs. Proposals are being made so that we can, for example, introduce a social tax on dividends from capital investments, and perhaps social tax on pensioners should pay the share of health insurance, etc. Why have we not done anything to strengthen sustainability?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U13	Thank you. It is quite surprising to hear your support for the proposal to tax pensions by means of social tax. I certainly do not support it, and I am amazed that you are raising it as if it were a proposal that should be supported. On the contrary, I believe that everything should be done to ensure that the average pension is not only exempt from social tax but also exempt from income tax. This is the direction we have been moving towards so far, and this is also the direction of the draft state budget for next year, which has been given to you. Nor do I consider this proposal, which has come out of your mouth less surprisingly, that people's work should be taxed more. But here we have absolutely clear world-view differences, and I suppose we both have the right to take our stand. As far as health is concerned, the greatest problem in this area is certainly the length of the waiting lists now, especially in specialist medical care. As Minister of Social Affairs I also wrote, about a year ago, a rather comprehensive programme on how to shorten treatment queues in Estonia. I was able to implement the programme step by step, and so will the current Minister of Health and Labour, Urmas Kruuse. The title of the programme was 'Seven steps to faster treatment' and an integral part of it is, for example, that family doctors must be given more weight in the field of health care in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U14	Please ask the second issue registered on site, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I don't think you're sincere in your answers. The previous speaker, Ms Tuus-Laul, did not claim that pensions should be taxed. It's your own creation during this performance. Try to be more specific, precise, and honest! You're saying we're doing all right. I will only read three letters from the National Audit Office's report in the meantime. It has been clearly stated here that our productivity has not increased, Estonia's economic growth is slowing down, Latvia and Lithuania are beginning to pass us by, and the average Estonian has not become wealthier in 2013 than the average European. If these three or four goals are not met, what is the secret to the success of your government? What progress have you made when the average Estonian has become poorer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U16	Thank you. First of all, about what Marika Tuus-Laul asked. It is probably possible to look it up exactly after the verbatim, but he asked about the proposal to tax dividends and pensions on social tax and why we are not doing so. That's what I said so we didn't have to do. But to come to your question, I would be very pleased if Latvia and Lithuania were to do at least as well as Estonia, because the welfare of our neighbours depends on our well-being and envy. I'd rather they do better. However, if you look at how fast the economy has grown, how fast wages have increased, how fast pensions have increased and how high these amounts are, unfortunately both Latvia and Lithuania still have a very, very long way to go to reach the same level as Estonia. Take, for example, the average wage in Estonia as per the second quarter of this year - 1023 euros, 762 euros in Latvia, 682 euros in Lithuania. The difference between Lithuania and Estonia is one-and-a-half. The average salary definitely shows wealth, people's livelihood. We take an average old-age pension, which is 350 in Estonia, 279 in Latvia, 240 euros in Lithuania. The difference is also almost one-and-a-half, in favour of Estonia. How did the average wage increase in the first quarter of this year? 5.8% in Estonia, 2.9% in Latvia, 1.7% in Lithuania. Again for our benefit. We will also look at the increase in the average pension in the first quarter of this year, in Estonia, 5.7, in Latvia, 0.3, in Lithuania, 0.1. These numbers will give you an exact answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U17	Thank you. Let's take the last question on this subject. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U18	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! While Latvia and Estonia have already been compared, we will continue to compare. Latvia supported its farmers this year with EUR 40 million. Last night, we learned from the 'Actual Camera' that the new coalition provides farmers with 50 million euros in their budget for next year. This amounts to 90 million euros and Estonia has zero euros to set aside. What are you comparing, the competitiveness of companies or the speed of development of countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U19	Thank you. I answered your question about what I compare by answering the previous question. I compared the incomes of Estonian people in terms of wages and pensions, as well as the incomes of Latvian and Lithuanian people in terms of wages and pensions, and I used data for the first half of 2014. Of course, if you look well, there will also be a line in the budgets of our neighbouring countries, which is larger than Estonia's corresponding budget line, that cannot be ruled out. If, however, the main budget costs are taken, we can see that just as the wage level in Estonia is a long step ahead, for example, with defence expenditure, education expenditure, internal security expenditure. We have no reason to be ashamed of any of these very important areas. But let's say I really like it when Latvia and Lithuania are doing well. It could go even better. We could all think that if Latvia and Lithuania are doing well, we will do well too. The fact that Latvia joined the euro a few years after us is good news for us too. It is good news for us too when Lithuania joins the euro from the beginning of next year. We shouldn't be jealous of our neighbors. However, the reality is that the difference in income is still up to one-and-a-half in favour of Estonia. I believe and hope that all three of us will do well in the future and that income will increase in all three countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U20	Thank you very much. I shall conclude the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U21	Let's go to the next question. Andrus Saare has asked the Minister for Social Protection Helmen Küt about the reform of working capacity. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U22	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I had a meeting with a good colleague, Margus Tsahkna, with representatives of the Vana-Vigala Technical and Service School in Rapla County. Our aim was to get an overview of how a vocational school is involved in the work capacity reform, where for the last six years, young people with moderate mental disabilities have been taught alongside ordinary learners. There are a third of these young students in school, or around a hundred. All these years, the school family has done a grateful job within the limits of their normal resources. At the same time, according to what we have seen, the school has remarkable achievements in making it possible for young people with special needs to cope on their own. The school has long-term experience and a frame of teachers for teaching and helping people with intellectual disabilities. This is precisely the missing practical part of the output that has been most criticised during the preparation of the current reform. I gave the example of Vana-Vigala, but there are more schools like this in Estonia. Could such schools have a specific place in the implementation of the labour force reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U23	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U24	Thank you very much for your question. We intend to meet this school on 14 November, but not just this. In fact, the key issue is both the education system and teaching people what to do. Undoubtedly, the success of the reform will depend only on it, not only for people with special needs, but also for others, on whether their education meets the needs of the workplace. Cooperation not only between schools but also between employers is important. The Ministry of Education and Research has also been involved in the goodwill agreement so that we can already plan further activities together, given the stronger coherence between education and social affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U25	You actually already answered my second planned question concerning cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. It is good to know that this cooperation will work. I'm going to ask you more broadly. So far, training and helping people with disabilities have been project-based. But having met people working in this field, I can say that they are allergic to words such as 'project', 'application', 'coordination', 'own funding','report', etc. After implementing the work capacity reform, can we allow those who deal with disabled people every day to be sure: the state will be able to evaluate and finance their work without having to write monthly projects, without knowing what happens to a young person who has begun training, his support person or his teacher? Can you promise me that in a word?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U26	Thank you for your question. I can promise you, in a word, that as long as I have the time to work, regardless of what happens next and what the new government will hopefully be able to continue, but if not, the new Minister for Social Protection will do so, that if the system starts working so that people receive training and also have technical bases for training, it will in any case be more useful and wiser to invest instead of constantly requesting money for one-off projects, justifying themselves and submitting reports after that. It is certainly not possible to allow projects to be written in order to receive European Union money. According to the laws of the Estonian state, applications for money must be submitted. However, I believe that the submission of applications should not be in any way biased, regionally or regionally, only towards large municipalities, where there is better project writing skills and greater competence. However, training and money must be provided wherever the centre is established. We have a good example of Astangu, where people themselves create something and produce. Just as many other vocational schools have a very good base, I am also thinking, for example, of the Old Win in my country. I am quite convinced that every vocational school teaching the profession has its own niche and the opportunity to get better conditions for teaching people with special needs during this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U27	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U28	I'm going to go over it. I heard you say you mentioned internships. After all, we have these internships bases, which I mentioned in the first point of my question, and which you have even mentioned. It makes perfect sense for the state to take advantage of all these training bases and only then move forward. Could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U29	Now, when I said that I might have misunderstood or heard something, I actually meant that the existing one must be used, but it must also be put together with employers. At the moment, it may be that somewhere, those who are perhaps not so much expected or sought on the labour market are being trained. Perhaps more training is needed to meet the real needs of employers. That's what I meant. Together with the Ministry of Education and Research, we intend to review existing schools to better fund them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U30	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U31	Thank you. I'm asking about the work capacity reform. We know that the work capacity reform, as well as the social welfare that accompanies it, has received a great deal of criticism. This applies not only to the current government, but also to the question of why the previous government in Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Rõiva, who were then social ministers, and the IRL, who were with them in the government, did not cope with this reform. But also people with disabilities themselves and their organisations have handed the petition to the Riigikogu and organised demonstrations all over Estonia. The reform is also the subject of tomorrow's key national issue. But I ask you what you see as the three biggest problems for people with disabilities. Why cannot they accept this reform? Do you think they're right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U32	Thank you very much for your question. First of all, as a member of the Social Affairs Committee, I want to confirm that you know very well yourself, because the Social Affairs Committee worked all summer in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and, specifically, with interest groups, that 18 amendments have been made to the first draft of the employment capacity reform, which came into the procedure of the Riigikogu in June. These are precisely on the basis of proposals from target groups, namely these people and organisations. There have already been eight amendments to the Second Act on Social Welfare, on the Labour Market Support and Services Act and on the amendment of other laws, and there will be more. I think it is very right that tomorrow this issue will be discussed as an important national issue. I do not rule out at all that if you still sit, discuss and consult in the Committee on Social Affairs after that, there will be further improvements. I believe that tomorrow, when we listen to the presentations made by representatives of special needs organisations and interest groups, and when an academic overview is also made, it will provide answers to concerns. I'd be lying if I said two laws could change everything. Absolutely not. For this reason, there is also a goodwill agreement on the table today, in which, on the basis of two consultations, a large number of issues have been written up which are not solved by two laws. It also needs the work of the next government. And not only am I saying that there will certainly be enough of this work by 2020. It all depends on how the law will live its life and whether it needs to be improved and changed. If political parties have made proposals, too, I know that the proposals of the Centre Party were accounted for almost one hundred percent, then it is only grateful. That is what Parliamentary work is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U33	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Because of its very nature, the work capacity reform has caused quite a lot of intrigue and misunderstandings in society. When you answered previous questions, you also spoke about projects, training for their preparation, etc. I ask you as a minister: has it been discussed in the Ministry of Social Affairs that in the future we should reach the point of preparing draft laws, that our whole country is not project-based, but will work as in many other societies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U35	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. The first step is that we have taken the debate at the Ministry of Social Affairs that certain organisations with longer experience should not do this every year for 10 to 15 years. We consider that this could be a two-to-three-year period that would provide experience, as well as certainty for organisations that have already justified their activities. It is very difficult to decide that projects will no longer have to be submitted at all. This is not only the case in the Ministry of Social Affairs, as you rightly stated in the question. We really have a project-based country, in every ministry, in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Culture, as well as the Ministry of Education and Research. I think we could make it this way one step at a time, but definitely not in another 11 months.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U36	Thank you very much. I will close the debate on the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U37	Let's go to the next question. Marika Tuus-Laul has been asked by Urmas Kruus, Minister of Health and Labour. The issue is the inclusion of people with disabilities. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U38	Thank you. As you are the Minister of Health, I will also say that the state must put more money in health care to this 13%, just as the state is now paying for those in military service and for several other groups. This would give us more money to treat the elderly, for example, in that common boiler. In this way, the elderly would receive better treatment, and in this way we would all receive better treatment. There just isn't enough money right now. But what I want to say about people with disabilities is that it's very fortunate when people with disabilities get a remote control here tomorrow. It was not meant to be this way at first, because coalition politicians in the Commission decided that only the representative, expert and minister of the umbrella organisation would come here. You were a very hard influence on the Commission, which, as a minister, tilted this decision, although...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U39	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U40	The decision was made by the Commission. Then why did you do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U41	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The question was very long and the introduction to it was very long. Personally, I would like to give people even more money, including health care. But our national concern is that there are fewer working people than those who would like to receive services on the taxpayer's side. This also applies to the health insurance fund. When we talk about employment reform, it is certainly a key issue for people to be able to use their contribution for the benefit of society and thus, in fact, for their own benefit. If you refer to a specific meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, the Minister was invited and expressed his position on the basis of how the Commission had decided. The Commission decided that four people could be heard on this issue, and the Minister made it very clear that one of the four should be a representative of the disabled. At the moment I was on the Commission, I did not know an alternative to being an even more suitable representative of people with disabilities than Monika Haukanõm. He is led by the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, which brings together several dozen organisations. That was the Minister's argument. The Minister is very pleased that the Commission had already decided in advance that representatives of people with disabilities would receive the floor in the Riigikogu. However, Parliament itself always makes the final decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U42	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U43	Thank you. The problem arose from the proposal to discuss this issue as an important national issue, after all, by the Committee on Social Affairs. It was all the more strange that the Minister tried to influence the Commission to decide who would come here. More specifically, we were also in favour of Monika Haukanõm coming, but we wanted it to be definitely a representative of the disabled, someone who has organised picnics himself and has prepared petitions on behalf of those who called for this national issue to be discussed. But the position of the coalition was very firm, and it was you who tilted and influenced this view that it was rather a person of the House, and it is not necessary that there should be a representative of those who are so-called directly involved in this problem and who handed over these signatures. That was the question. I'm asking you why you were trying so hard to influence it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U44	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I understand I'm being tried to assume a bigger role than I've ever wanted to take at one point. If we look at these picnics and talk about a topic that concerns 100000 people, and we consider that the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People has more than 40 organisations, then we could assume and conclude that the person who is officially and legally elected to represent them would best fit. This was the Minister's current logic when he participated in the debate at the request of the Committee on Social Affairs. I am sincerely happy that we have been able to hold a lot of discussions with disabled people's organisations even in this short period of time, six months. This has already benefited from the drafting of the drafts currently under parliamentary procedure. I am therefore convinced that if the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu allowed more people to participate in such debates, it would also be helpful. But as a minister, I am not deciding on Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but I am following them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U45	Please, Marika Tuus-lauul, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U46	Thank you. I don't think we really understand each other. Of course, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People represents a large number of organisations. Monika Haukanõmm is a very nice person, and she's brought up a lot of problems. It's all right. But it is still an umbrella organisation, i.e. not a disabled person himself. Besides, Monika Haukanõmm gets paid at the Ministry of Social Affairs. That's the question. At first, we wanted to rule out the possibility of a person coming into this remote control who has directly handed over the representatives of the disabled and who himself has signed them. I am very pleased that the decision was made differently yesterday, and today an expert is taken out, so both sides can talk here. But what do you think these first three causes of disability protest are? Last time, I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U47	Honourable good questioner! I have said before, I will say today and I will say tomorrow that I like to live in a democratic country. If there are people in society who see a problem or want to express their will on one issue or another, it is always welcome, no matter what form of the seal, be it a strike, no matter what kind of phenomenon. Fortunately, this opportunity exists in Estonia's democratic state. In a short time, we have travelled around Estonia a great deal with our good colleague, Minister Helmen Küt, and have met disabled people's organisations and even more the simple people affected by this reform. Personally, I have gained confidence that people with disabilities themselves want change and are not satisfied with the current situation. I think we all understand in this Chamber that if a person has to wait two years in the order of rehabilitation in Estonia, it is not very reasonable. These two draft laws will change this situation. In fact, this means that we need to talk more and even more convincing. I am two hundred percent convinced of what the National Audit Office has also said that reform is important for our society. We cannot accept that there are nearly 50,000 people in Estonia who are just side by side with life. Unfortunately, we have to establish statistics like this, but we can't accept that. This is also why we cannot hope that all the proposals we have put forward can always be shaped into a draft law. But as a good colleague, Helmen Kütt, has already said, several dozens of proposals have been taken into account, and they all serve the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U48	Thank you. Now we will go to the issues registered on the ground and we will limit ourselves to three. Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U49	Thank you! Good minister! This is certainly a major reform, and it concerns many people. But maybe now, when we talk about inclusion, it would go a little further than anyone who is involved or not involved. What are the proposals made by representative organisations for people with disabilities in this draft law? Perhaps this is the best indication of inclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U50	Thank you, Reverend Asker! As we have heard above, there are several dozen proposals. But let me give you some simple examples. When the Ministry sent the draft to Parliament, we had already taken some proposals into account. For example, how much work capacity allowance could be. When preparation of the draft was started, it was thought that the partial capacity allowance could be EUR 160. Now the bill already says 180 euros. We have discussed that if a person finds a job and has an income, then whether and how much the state should pay him or her support and how much he or she will fall from the border. According to one proposal, this is 30% more favourable for a person, i.e. it is starting to fall from EUR 960. Given people's incomes, it is a very strong motivation, which forces them to work hard to find a decent job on the labour market and improve their quality of life and their way of life. For example, when we are talking about activity requirements, changes were also brought about, precisely on the proposal of disabled people themselves, that learning should also be considered a activity requirement after 31 years. We see that at the age of 50 and 60 we need to learn and restructure our lives. These are just a few examples of change.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U51	Thank you. Please, Innar Mäesalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U52	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have a simple and specific question. What happens if two closely linked drafts do not pass the second reading and the work capacity reform cannot be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U53	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The two drafts, which are currently under the procedure of the Committee on Social Affairs, certainly go hand in hand. This means that we look at the system as a whole. The restructuring that needs to be undertaken in order to implement the work capacity reform represents two very important changes. One change is that the unemployment fund's own services will become a fundamental institution to help people with reduced working capacity back into the labour market. The second amendment concerns social welfare services that would support people's access to or return to the labour market. The European Union's money has been given to us to implement these reforms. Both the Auditor General and the European Commission have criticised us for the urgent need to implement these reforms in a situation where people are in a passive state and receive a pension from the state, which does not, however, help to change their way of living. We have, on the proposal of the representatives of the organisations, met with one thing, namely that we decided that the reform could be implemented from 1 January 2016. This means, however, that part of the reform must be implemented by then. We need to submit an interim report to the European Commission in 2018 with certain performance indicators, because part of the money comes when the intermediate indicators are met. So I very much hope that the honourable Parliament will approve these two drafts together, so that we can provide the best services for people with disabilities and people with reduced working capacity to return to their labour market and improve quality of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U54	Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U55	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm gonna pick up your last sentence on the tail and ask you about these performance indicators. What percentage, or how many people do you think you should find a job or return to the labour market in order for the reform to be successful and meet the objectives set?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U56	Thank you, Reverend Asker! As a minister, I would be very happy if, until 2020, during the implementation of this reform, 15 000 people would return to the labour market or come back to the labour market from the target group we are talking about. We have also described in the draft law that 10000 could also be a very good result. There are also logical reasons for this. For these people, we need to work harder to find the right jobs for them, and we need to motivate employers more. A very good result would be 10,000 to 15,000, then we could say that the first stage of the reform, if we were to establish a base in Estonia, has succeeded.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U57	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U58	We're going to the next thing. The questioner is Margus Tsahkna, the question is for Prime Minister Taavi Kõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Work capacity reform will continue to be on the agenda and tomorrow there will also be a national debate on the same subject. It has been convened because 3 500 signatures were made on the petition, which were collected by those who represent very large organisations of the disabled. In addition to organisations for the disabled, representative organisations and some others have supported the petition. I am asking more about inclusion. You yourself, as Minister of Social Affairs of the previous government, have been the developer of the labour capacity reform and you have also described here today what good this will bring. How do you explain that the reform is causing so much opposition to the target group it is intended for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U60	Thank you. First of all, I followed with great interest the discussion you have had with both the Minister for Social Protection and the Minister for Health and Labour. And there is no way to understand how members of the Riigikogu can tell and even prescribe people with disabilities who are suitable for their representation and who are not suitable for them. The representative organisations of people with disabilities are concentrated in the Chamber of People with Disabilities. The Chamber has democratically chosen a leader. This longtime leader will be nominated so that he can speak on this important subject on behalf of people with disabilities in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Then the members of the Riigikogu come and say that no, the democratically elected representative or leader of people with disabilities themselves does not fit, we must find someone else. I really don't understand it. And I would call for the organisations representing people with disabilities to be accepted in their own choices rather than for those who could represent them or who should not represent them. The representative of the disabled, as far as I know, will certainly be in tomorrow's debate. Now, why there has been opposition. It's certainly because there's fear of every new thing. It is also partly because people who think that there is weight in society, such as opposition politicians, have spread information about the reform that is not true. Of course, in that case, the changes will give rise to fear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U61	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U62	Thank you. Prime Minister! I did not want to discuss the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs here, but unfortunately I do have to do so. It was precisely the opposition that proposed to include a representative of the Chamber of People with Disabilities, as well as those who have collected 3 500 signatures on this petition, in the debate on a matter of national importance. The proposal was that everyone who has shown the citizens' initiative can talk about this very important subject here in the Riigikogu Chair. In the interests of the truth, I must say that it was precisely by the coalition that this proposal was voted down. But my question is not just about labour reform. As Prime Minister, I ask you: does this behaviour of rulers give a more negative message to the people who have shown the citizens' initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U63	Thank you. I have been a Member of Parliament and of the Government for so long that I know very precisely that members of the government are not fit to judge Parliament in their decisions. It is Parliament's decision-making power to call those responsible for the debate on a key national issue. I accept all the solutions you come to. But it is not appropriate for me to have a say here, because it is an unwritten rule that the members of the government do not intervene in Parliament's organisational matters. As a citizen, of course, I have my own position. I was surprised when you said yesterday in the TV news that there was no representative of the disabled in the debate. I checked the attendance list and found the head of the House of Disabled People, who is as official a representative of disabled people as he could possibly be. He is, at all, the most democratically elected representative who represents all people with disabilities. This case attracted my attention as a citizen. I continue to believe that it is up to them, and we should not interfere, to manage and choose a representative organisation for people with disabilities. With regard to the views of the signatories, I had a very long discussion with them. None of those who came to me to hand over the petition wanted the current system, which they unequivocally consider to be very bad, to continue to apply for longer. They do not really want to postpone the reform of working capacity, but want to implement it very well together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U64	Margus Tsahkna, a second point of detail, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U65	Thank you. Prime Minister! It's become a political dispute. Certainly no member of the Social Affairs Committee wanted the representative of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People to stay away. The question was rather that the organisers of a specific citizens' initiative could have been asked who was their representative. It was only after pressure from the public that the Committee on Social Affairs decided that their representative, together with the representative of the House of People with Disabilities, would be here tomorrow in this Chamber, and this is an excellent decision. But the damage to this whole process has already arisen, and not because of opposition politicians. Let me ask you a specific question. At a conference organised by Professor Lauristin, one disabled person described that he now has 100% incapacity for work and also has 100% disability according to the new system. He is actually a workable person, a graduate of Tallinn University of Technology, but he is unable to get dressed at home to go to work. Such services will not be accompanied by this new work capacity reform. How do you tell him it's a good reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U66	Thank you. Once again, I am not going to talk about the confusion you caused in the committee. In my opinion, you might consider asking for an apology from the people who represent people with disabilities. Since you publicly questioned their reliability or suitability, perhaps it would be good to do so. But by coming to these concrete examples, the work capacity reform primarily deals with these people and offers better solutions to those who have lost their job capacity and want to work themselves. This is the first most important target group, which is very large. By the way, most of them may not be disabled people, they can also be people with health problems. It is much easier to help them because they expect this help themselves and have also said in very dignified polls that they want to work. There is certainly a need to commit to helping these people, and that is the right thing to do. It is certainly premature to say that a new methodology, which can only be developed in detail once the laws already exist, shows one result or another. However, it can be said that a person who needs additional services at home or in his/her own municipality can offer them much better after the reform of his/her ability to work. In addition to two very important drafts, regulations are also being prepared in the Ministry of Social Affairs to bring local government services to a new level with the support of European Union money. In this particular case, I feel that it would also help to apply a person's home. I do not know the details of this case, but European money is intended to apply a human home.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U67	Thank you. One question registered on site, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U68	Thank you. Prime Minister! You mentioned that the opposition has disseminated a lot of false information about the reform of working capacity, which is not true. I myself belong to the opposition, and I have not read all the articles of opinion. You probably haven't read them either, but I'm sure you have counselors who have taken stock of some of the articles. Perhaps you could give us opposition members some examples. What are the greatest valuables that the opposition is spreading?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U69	Thank you. Good questioner! Personally, I certainly wouldn't have blamed you for that. I don't recall you ever saying anything misleading about this subject. Please don't take it personally! There are many politicians in opposition and, of course, opposition politicians have not only spread inaccurate or even wrong things. I don't want to over-strengthen any misconceptions. However, it has been said, for example, that people's incomes may be reduced in the future, rather than a disability pension. This is not true because, after very long work, a solution was reached, which would rather increase people's income, including direct income before wages. If a person succeeds in getting a job, his or her income will, of course, increase considerably as a result of his or her salary. Then it has also been said that the provision of the service in one way or another will become worse. That, too, is not true. The logic of the work capacity reform is to give new opportunities. In all respects, the situation is improving. In fact, there is also quite a lot of expert criticism of this reform. But it has not been said that the current system is very good, do not change it for God's sake. It hasn't been found to do the wrong thing either. The criticism has been that the current system needs to be changed. Change it, but make it even more precise, even smarter, and listen to us. I think we all agree with this criticism. Most of it can be implemented in the implementation of the reform. When the Riigikogu has created a legal basis, the details will be established with the organisation of work and the following documents. We need some help in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U70	Thank you very much. This topic has also been drawn down. Unfortunately, due to the pressure of time, we are no longer able to open the next issue, but this has already been discussed here. Question Time is over, and we are about to prepare for our session today. Many thanks to the ministers, the Prime Minister and all the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U71	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. If I say anything about this remote, I'm so glad to see that people sitting on my right side are sitting in the hall, that I even agree if they talk to each other. Thank God they're even in the hall! What else can I say? That's it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U73	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I am handing over the draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property. As it turned out from yesterday's debate, I'm gonna do it 12 times in about 15 years. Let me remind you that this is the same draft that we have had in this Chamber in essence already at third reading and whose adoption as a law is only interrupted by a lack of political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U74	One second, performer, I'm sorry for a moment! The debate in the Chamber is too loud.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U75	Very good! Thank you. No further drafts or enquiries are recommended. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and the management board of the Riigikogu decides to adopt it in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 82 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present and 19 members of the Riigikogu are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U76	We are going to address today's agenda items. The first point is the third reading of draft law 635 on compensation for damage caused in criminal proceedings initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 635. Since this bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will once again check the presence before the vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu are not present. Can we go to the vote now? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on compensation for damage caused by an offence initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 635. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 65 members of the Riigikogu), no one opposed, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U77	Our second item today is the third reading of draft law amending the pre-school institution law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for a speech chair, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party attaches great importance to ensuring that all children in Estonia have a kindergarten or childcare place. To this end, in cooperation with municipalities and other parties, we have made changes to the pre-school child care institution law, which allow municipalities, with the consent of the parent, to offer a childcare place to a child of 1.5 to 3 years of age instead of a kindergarten place. According to the current law, the municipality must provide a day-care place for all children aged 1.5 to 7 years. Unfortunately, about 10% of our municipalities, Tallinn and Tartu and surrounding municipalities and some others are struggling to provide a place for all children. Since the shortage of kindergarten places is particularly relevant to the elderly, i.e. children aged 1.5 to 3 years, we have made the law more flexible for municipalities. If the parent agrees, the municipality can now offer the child a child-care position. In such a case, the municipality has also fulfilled its obligation to the law. However, if the parent decides that he or she wishes to provide a day-care position for his or her child, the municipality of his or her place of residence must grant it to him or her. For children of one family, the municipality should be able to guarantee the right to go to the same childcare facility. In doing so, our aim was to improve the situation so that neither party, family nor local government would suffer. The number of children waiting for a day-care position is expected to decrease, as some parents are willing to take care of their children instead of waiting for a day-care position. As storage sites are more advantageous to create than garden sites, the legislative amendment should motivate municipalities to create new storage sites and thereby shorten the queues. According to the legislative amendment, parent participation does not rise above the current rate of 20% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. The municipality can also use private partners to provide day-care or childcare facilities by organising a procurement procedure and setting quality, security and other requirements, including financial limits, under its conditions. Thus, the municipality can better control and plan its own expenditure. A number of amendments were tabled during the procedure, some of which were taken into account in the draft, such as more flexible organisation of kindergarten groups, clarification of the ratio between children and teachers, the establishment of rules of procedure for kindergarten and a few others. The remaining proposals were submitted to the Ministry of Education and Research for consideration, where a new concept of early childhood education is being developed. The general approach is that childcare and kindergarten can be more approachable in terms of content and quality for crèche-age children. The European Union's 2014/20. The structural instruments of 2008 are to invest EUR 40 million in the circa to create some 3200 new kindergarten places, which should enable us to achieve the objective of ensuring that all children wishing to be in kindergarten have access to it immediately. The Reform Party Group also recommends that all other MPs support the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U79	Thank you very much. Next, please speak to Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U80	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the third reading of the draft law amending the pre-school Children's Institution Act 641. During the second reading, we reflected the current issues and suggestions received from kindergartens and municipalities. The amendments were also discussed by the Committee on Culture at its meetings, as it was clear that the problems of pre-school institutions had accumulated over a long period of time and that the future of children's institutions depended on solving them. Unfortunately, after a long debate, the Commission limited the scope of the draft proposal and removed the questions and proposals that had been put forward by the children's institutions. The Commission promised to come back to these issues when the Ministry of Education and Research was ready to make proposals on the subject. Thus, solving the problems of kindergartens is postponed to an indefinite future. However, we know very well that these problems will not go away. Already the implementation of this draft requires restructuring in childcare facilities, and problems arise again, as childcare facilities need to start meeting the requirements with limited resources. I would like to emphasise once again the unresolved problems. Firstly, the draft law on pre-school children's institutions does not address the problems of other kindergartens, children and kindergarten teachers, which still require urgent response and resolution. Secondly, kindergarten teachers and teachers need guarantees. Unfortunately, kindergarten teachers are excluded from the definition of minimum wage rates established by the Government of the Republic. Some municipalities, such as Tallinn and Harku municipalities, have set minimum rates similar to the minimum rates for schoolteachers' pay for kindergarten teachers. However, many municipalities do not have the financial means to do so. The qualification requirements for teachers in kindergarten teachers, the obligation to provide further training and other quality assurance requirements have been applied to both school teachers and kindergarten teachers. Unfortunately, however, we have not yet been able to impose similar minimum wages. As a result, it is important to establish national minimum pay rates for kindergarten teachers and special-purpose budget allocations to increase the income base of municipalities. On the one hand, we give extra money to local governments to raise the pay of kindergarten teachers and, on the other hand, to ensure fairer treatment of kindergarten teachers. Let me remind you that the Centre Party Group also handed over a draft on this subject in this very Chamber last June, which was unfortunately rejected at first reading. Thirdly, in 2007, the "Every child's kindergarten place' programme was developed to support local authorities in building new kindergartens and renovating existing kindergartens, as it was not possible for all municipalities to provide a kindergarten place for each child without additional support. The suspended programme needs to be restored, as the needs and opportunities of municipalities are still very different in terms of providing kindergarten places. Apart from this, it is necessary to establish the relationship between the state and local government in financing pre-school children's institutions. Already in kindergarten, there must be greater support for the transition to Estonian-language education, which has also been emphasised several times by the Minister of Education and Research, but this idea has not found practical support. Last year in kindergarten... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U81	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U82	...should be mandatory for each child or the child should be listed in kindergarten. Its aim is to ensure a uniform preparation for school. The Centre Party Group, together with representatives of local authorities, pre-school children's institutions and other groups, is ready to discuss further the sectoral problems related to early childhood education in order to find viable solutions. The Centre Party Group cannot support the draft, which excludes the real problems of pre-school institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U83	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair on Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is an important bill concerning many families and their daily lives. At the first meetings of the Commission, the discussions on the draft were debate-rich and I, as a member of the Commission, had an optimistic expectation that we could get a pretty good thing. The Committee on Culture held ten meetings on this subject; we discussed dozens and dozens of proposals received from more than 14 organisations. I would like to thank all those who have sent both proposals on the bill and appeals, where the problems of early childhood education have been addressed more widely. I would also like to thank the good officials of the Commission who have worked and prepared all this material. Once again, we have been assured that there are many bottlenecks in the area of early childhood education that need to be removed. That is what all the Members in the Commission have said, but in summing up today, I have to paraphrase, not in a very original way, that we wanted the best, but it turned out the way it always did. The only point that offers a solution at the third reading of the draft is to alleviate the situation of some municipalities, who can now offer childcare services alongside kindergarten services. This is also granted at the expense of children's and families' sense of security, as no obligation, responsibility or measurable quality has been included in the law. I will only mention a few points that have not been resolved or where the situation has been made worse. Despite taking a small step towards alleviating the shortage of nursery places, the draft does not actually guarantee a kindergarten place for every child, but makes the service more expensive for many parents of up to four years of age potentially, while at the same time compromising quality. In reality, the workload of day-care providers is increasing. The draft provides an opportunity to bring together kindergarten teachers with pedagogical education from kindergarten to replace teachers with all kinds of education and even with no national language skills. This practice is at least known to be a reality in kindergartens in Tallinn. I would like to thank the Estonian Association of Early Childhood Education Leaders and their premiere, who pointed out the basic problems of early childhood education in Teachers' Paper. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find specialised kindergarten teachers. It's also a question of pay by region, but it's not just a question. Much of the good teachers have simply reached retirement age. At the same time, although there is not enough training for kindergarten teachers, higher education institutions have reduced the reception of early childhood education teachers. The chairwoman of the Community pointed out that even now kindergartens are forced to recruit graduates from any specialty who have completed a preschool education course, which means that the kindergarten must start training the practitioner on its own. As our legislator, we must ensure that the quality of early childhood education is guaranteed, whether the child is in kindergarten or childcare. The bill doesn't guarantee that. The most incomprehensible thing is that the state treats parents differently. If a parent takes his child to an institution with a "Lasteaed" label on the door, he will receive a tax refund, but if there is a "Children's Care" label on the door, he will not receive this refund. No, it is not a question of another demand by the opposition for a group to receive a benefit; it is a question of equal treatment for parents. This was the only point in the draft that the state should have contributed to. Unfortunately, there was no compromise. The proposal for equal treatment was initially supported by all members of the Commission. The proposal was also approved by the Ministry of Social Affairs; the Ministry of Finance assessed the cost of the budget as marginal. Although the chairman of the committee, who worked very hard on the draft, finally admitted that if there was no money, the equal treatment of parents would not come, I would rather throw the stone into the cabbage garden of the Minister of Education, who is the minister responsible for the field. In order to find this EUR 900000, the Minister would have had to make an effort to finish, but apparently the Minister had something better to do. To conclude, since the draft offers parents a poorer service for more money and the substantive issues are unresolved, the IRL Group cannot vote in favour of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U85	Thank you very much. Jaak Allik, speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that everything Mr Luik said here is perfectly in agreement with our group, and also what Mr Efendiev and Mr Saare said is true. Indeed, the Commission worked closely on the draft, heard and examined the proposals of a large number of interested organisations. Yeah, well, unfortunately, they wanted the best, but it turned out like always. I can say that the Commission is certainly not responsible for this. We used Mrs Reps and Mrs Pakosta, representatives of the opposition, who are well-informed on this issue, as expert specialists. However, it turned out that the interested parties had extremely different solutions and extremely different views. I would like to point out that we are adopting as a law a draft which was actually submitted to Parliament in the form proposed by the Ministry headed by Minister Jaak Aaviksoo of the IRL. Not all attempts to correct this by redrafting provisions or changing sentences are likely to result in a final outcome. We have come to the conclusion that the problem is serious. Indeed, the problems that Mr Efendiev spoke about must be discussed and resolved: making the last group of kindergarten part of the national education system, as well as national decision-making on the pay rate of kindergarten teachers. I had the impression that the law on pre-school children's institutions should start working seriously in the new Parliament, but first, however, interest groups must reach some compromise or common positions. We also heard that for two years the Commission or the working group had prepared this draft at the Ministry of Education, but unfortunately this time there was no more than a change in the principle. This change, indeed, is very important and brings a solution to a number of cases, as has been heard in recent days, and responds to the interests of the local government. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill and I also call on the Chamber to support it. For those of the MPs who are members of the next Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu, I recommend once again that this law on early childhood education be put on the agenda as their first task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U87	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 641. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act 641. Please take a stand and vote. 49 votes to 34 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U88	The third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With this legislative amendment, we create the foundations for directing 3,51 million additional euros to Estonian sport. The aim of the support is to promote youth sport and to guarantee social guarantees for youth trainers. Starting from next year, the state will compensate for 5. 50 : 50, which means that half of the salary comes from the state, the other half is awarded by a sub-union, a sports club or a sports school. The amendment affects about 80000 Estonian children and young people's regular sports activities, the circa 1500 trainers who train them and about 500 sports clubs or schools where children and young people train. So far, there are a lot of sports clubs where coaches are paid scholarships. As scholarships are tax-free, their recipients are not known to have social guarantees. At the same time, there are clubs where work contracts have been concluded with coaches and taxes have been paid that guarantee social guarantees, such as health insurance funds, pension funds, etc. It is clear that the clubs that have signed contracts of employment are not in a comparable position to those who pay scholarships. Thus, firstly, in order to guarantee the social guarantees of coaches, and secondly, in order to ensure equal treatment, the scholarship must be transferred from the grant to the contract of employment. With the amendments to the Sport Act, we give the Minister of Culture the power to lay down the conditions and procedures for granting the grant. Under the management agreement, the Sport Training and Information Foundation will be responsible for providing support, with expertise for this purpose. The Foundation will be supervised by the Ministry of Culture. The application for grants, the administration of applications and the conclusion of contracts shall take place in the online environment set up for this purpose. In order to qualify for a grant, a sports association, a sports club or a sports school, the professional qualification requirements for coaches must be met, as mentioned in point 5.1.7. level, and work load and training group size requirements. The age of young people participating in training groups must be less than 24 years old, which also represents the age limit of a junior athlete. The Sport Training and Information Foundation relies on data from the Estonian Sports Register and assessments of sports federations and county sports federations when processing applications. If the requirements for the coach and training group are met, the contract shall be concluded between the foundation and the subgroup, the sports school or the sports club. Applications will be accepted from the beginning of this month. A lot has been asked why this support will start from Category 5 and why the support mechanism will not apply to categories 3 and 4, i.e. aid and junior trainers. Firstly, because level 5, or coach, is also well prepared, for example, according to international experts, to work successfully as a coach. Secondly, because lower-level trainers would have the incentive to improve their qualifications. Thirdly, due to financial capacity. Personally, I am of the opinion that, if possible, category 4 trainers who train a large number of young people across Estonia should also be supported. At the same time, I am aware that involving junior coaches among the beneficiaries would mean an additional EUR 1.5 million, which unfortunately we do not have anywhere to take at the moment. I have proposed to the Minister for Culture that if, for any reason, the first round of distribution should be left over, they should be targeted to support category 4 trainers. In any case, it is important that we continue to be able to find additional funding to improve young people's mobility habits and promote healthy lifestyles. 3.51 million additional euros is a sign that the field of sport continues to be important for the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U90	Thank you very much. Next, please speak to Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U91	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us hope that this bill is not just a pre-election flash. I recall that the Reform Party has been managing the Ministry of Culture for almost 15 years, and the Ministry also has sport in its administration. Bravo, I could say from this remote control, we are finally beginning to take some steps that will change the organisation of sport. Yes, we have so far changed a number of sports laws, but this has created more bureaucracy and questionable statistics. Not to mention that this bureaucracy has generated relatively high costs for sports associations. I will use the word 'hope' again in my speech, because hope will be the last to die. We hope that the future sports congress, whose programme and implementation will be largely determined by the people of the Reform Party, will be able to highlight the challenges and needs of sport and, finally, these issues will also be discussed here in the Riigikogu Chamber and, if necessary, laws will be passed. I recall the golden words of my good friend Neinar Sel before the EOK presidential election. He said that besides talking to the sports congress, something could be carried out. There will definitely be a first step today, a new congress on sports coming up. Hopefully, after this, we will come here to the Riigikogu Hall with great and concrete actions. I don't want to be very irisy and I think that solutions should also be offered. In my opinion, the first bottleneck of this bill is that we do not value university education. I'll give you an example so you'll understand. If you have graduated from the Faculty of Chemistry of the University of Tartu, but in order to be employed in a chemical laboratory, you should attend paid courses organised by professors at the University of Tartu in an NGO or foundation, it would be funny. But that's what's happening in sports right now. In order to make it more or less the logic of university education, some kind of professional paper could accompany a university diploma. Secondly, this bill only solves the problems of today, it does not look forward to the future. I think that we should urgently resolve a problem that is important for the future, precisely the problem of how we can bring and leave young graduates to sports. Finally, I would like to say that the IRL supports this draft. Let's hope this isn't the last flash of lightning in our sports world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U92	Thank you. I'll have Jüri Ratas next. George Ratas is asking who he represents. Good question! I hope he represents the Centre Party Group. George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U93	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! There have been many Olympians in the Riigikogu. There have been and have been many people in the Riigikogu today who love sports and respect sports. There have been a lot of coaches in the various configurations of the Riigikogu. Why am I saying this? Because all of this gives a good assumption that the bill we are discussing today could have gotten here earlier. As strange as it may seem, I think this bill has come here because of the Tax and Customs Board. I would like to say thank you very much to the Tax and Customs Board, which started to control five or six clubs a year or more ago. After all, it was common knowledge that most scholarships are used in sport. Those clubs were caught by gears during this inspection and had to pay a fee. Surely this bill has also been put into practice because sport is currently underfunded and this issue is very acute. In other words, due to changes in the taxation of scholarships and the practice of using them, the aim of this draft is to reduce the problems. I dare say that this is one step in the very right direction; it is a signically very strong step. I would, of course, like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Lauri Luike, who has dealt with this matter, and the whole committee. If we look at the problem of underfunding sport, we will see that the important partners of sports clubs and sports schools are local authorities. If we look at how much local government money goes to support sports buildings and sports facilities, if we also consider the increase in prices, we will see that less and less money is going to go to human capital. So it is therefore an additional EUR 3,51 million, as Mr Luik said, a good step in any case. Why did I say it was one step? The question is whether this legislative amendment actually solves the problem of scholarships. I remember that this spring the Riigikogu conference centre had representatives from various authorities, starting with the Ministry of Culture and ending with the Tax and Customs Board and the Riigikogu. We can't get over or around the problems in sports. As the previous speakers said, for a very large number of clubs, this does not amount to EUR 3,51 million, because there are no 5, 6 or 7 coaches in the clubs. True, coaches should have a desire and financial motivation to raise their level. Is that possible everywhere? Being a little more closely associated with one sport, I know that Pärnu, for example, does not have a 5 to 7 club in one of Pärnu's clubs. Category 1 coaches, yet it is a very large sports club. At this very spring meeting, I asked the minister's representative how we would solve the problems of judges. It is not a secret either to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board or to the Estonian public that they also have scholarships. Quite a lot of clubs have asked... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U94	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U95	... that if a professional athlete is a student at the same time, whether or not a scholarship can be paid to him. Or how do we deal with the team? Can athletes in the Estonian team get a scholarship on old grounds or not? This, too, is an unresolved issue. It is also unsolved that if a capable athlete who does sports on a high level but also works and his employer pays social tax and income tax, he will attend the training evening, whether or not the club will have to pay these taxes. These are issues coming from the sports community, which are still unresolved. Let's face it, sport is becoming more and more emotional. They go to sports for emotion. Sport is a very clear area where entrepreneurship, the economy and the business environment play a very important role. If we want sport to be emotional, if we want sport to be part of the Estonian culture that we watch and enjoy with our family, neighbour or friend at night, then, of course, it is about local leagues, it is about professional athletes. How do we deal with them? If we hit them with one rod, so that everyone has to pay social and income tax, then it is clear that our leagues and sports levels will fall very strongly, emotion will be reduced, and fewer people will come to watch and enjoy sport, and fewer international clubs, international games will also come here. In my opinion, the content of this bill is, in fact, underfunding sport. In parallel with this draft, the question of state companies should accompany the Riigikogu at the level of the Riigikogu. This issue has not been very wanted to be dealt with. But I do not see any question as to whether state companies should support Estonian sport. It should be a question of what amount they support. Another topic is sports schools. They were lost about 15 years ago with great care and enthusiasm. I think that cooperation with local authorities should also be carried out here so that sports schools can be reborn. Of course, this will remain an alternative to club activities. The additional budget for 2009 should be recalled here when the share of sport in the local government revenue base was reduced. The Centre Party Group supports this bill and hopes that the next steps will come in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U96	Thank you. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the Social Democratic Party Group, Tatiana Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U97	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In its latest report, the National Audit Office presents the Riigikogu's overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2013/2014. The quality of education requires greater value for teacher work. The position of a trainer is equal to that of a teacher. A youth trainer is required to have a vocational education and training level and take into account the results achieved in youth sport. So far, the remuneration of young trainers has been unfair and uneven in Estonia. In some municipalities, young trainers are paid not for their work, but a scholarship from which no taxes are paid. The payment of a scholarship does not guarantee social guarantees; there is no contract of employment. This situation makes the situation of young trainers socially vulnerable and insecure. The Social Democrats find, and personally I believe, that it is fair to pay for the work done, with social guarantees. Employment must be based on a contract of employment. As a next step, the social democrats believe that pedagogical work should be more valued, for which pay should be significantly increased. Point 183 of the National Audit Office's audit states: "The low wage of teachers is striking not only in domestic but also in international comparison. Estonia stands out among OECD countries in terms of teachers' almost lowest wage levels. The salaries of teachers adjusted for purchasing power are also higher in poorer countries than Estonia, for example in Chile. However, the salary of a Finnish teacher exceeds that of an Estonian teacher almost three times in this comparison. ' The purpose of the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act pending in the Riigikogu today is to create a legal basis for the pay of coaches and the implementation of the support system. For this purpose, sports organisations will in future be able to apply for support from the state budget. The Social Democrats support the bill. It is very commendable that coaches receive an up-to-date pay system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U98	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations. The lead committee has a proposal to put the draft to a final vote on 722. We are preparing for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 722. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U99	Dear Riigikogu, we have already reached the fourth item on the agenda. The second reading of the Act of Accession of EUROCONTROL to the International Convention on Air Traffic Safety, as amended by the Protocol of 1981, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Act of Accession to the Multilateral Agreement on Route Charges, 739 begins. The rapporteur is Kalev Kallemets, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U100	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Estonia is the last member of the European Union to join the protocol on which EUROCONTROL is based. The Commission received one amendment by 23 October, which provided for the inclusion of § 3: 'This Act shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. 'The explanation is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considers that the law needs to be enforced before two additional protocols have to be signed, which are equally necessary for joining EUROCONTROL. If the law were to enter into force later, the signing of these protocols and the accession to EUROCONTROL would be delayed from 1 January. An amendment was therefore tabled, which was unanimously accepted by the Commission. The Commission proposes to put the draft to a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U101	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote of 739. I'm sorry! Before we can go to the final vote, we need to discuss one of the amendments tabled. Let's go through it. Any comments? No, it's not. Now we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 739 on the accession of EUROCONTROL to the International Convention on Air Traffic Safety Cooperation, as amended by the Protocol of 1981 initiated by the Government of the Republic, and to the multilateral agreement on route charges. Please take a stand and vote. There were 54 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting Bill 739 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U102	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act, the Customs Act and the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waiter Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. First of all, a few words to remind you. It is a government bill and launched on 30 June of this year. The first reading of the draft act took place on 17 September, when it was decided in this very Chamber that the deadline for tabling amendments would be 1 October. By this time, no amendments were received to this draft, but the Ministry of the Interior requested that the draft be supplemented by a very important point, i.e. a mechanism for determining the reference line. Consequently, this draft has been discussed twice by the commission on 13 and 21 October. Both meetings were attended by representatives from both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of the Interior proposed to include in the State Border Act a provision authorising the Government of the Republic to establish the coordinates of the temporary check line. The meeting on 13 October was concerned that the mandate given to the Government of the Republic on the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior was so wide that it would allow the coordinates of the temporary control line to be set entirely arbitrarily, without really following the control line currently being guarded. This was certainly to be avoided and the Ministry of the Interior was tasked with reviewing the mandate rule. On 21 October, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the matter again. The Minister of the Interior was not present at that meeting because he was on an external mission, but his advisor Erik Salumäe proposed to the Commission that the legal rule for determining the state border should be as follows: 'The temporary check line is a continuous thoughtline and a vertical plane along it which separates the Estonian territory under Estonia's jurisdiction from the part of Estonia that does not comply with it. The coordinates of the temporary check line are determined by a decree of the Government of the Republic, based on the boundaries of the administrative units included on the map of the country's land registry as of 1 November 2014. The temporary check line cannot be changed by the procedure for changing the boundaries of the administrative unit provided for in the Administrative Division of the Estonian territory Act. " Hopefully, everyone understood what they wanted to say. The content of the matter is actually much simpler. It is desirable that a temporary check line be set with the coordinate system, which is legally in force since 2006 when Mr Peets, the border guard at the time, issued an order to do so. What's the problem? The problem is that the decree of the Head of the Border Guard Board cannot be legally binding on, for example, the State Forest Management Centre or private land owners. We now have the necessary border line to clean up, do certain work there, and it would make sense that the control line should be identified as clearly and legally competent as possible. There are, in fact, two options that were discussed in the committee: the coordination system of the control line is determined by the Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu would be able to do so if the law on the state border was supplemented by an annex, where seven or eight pages would provide a list of coordinates and the members of the Riigikogu would be fully convinced that all the coordinates are one hundred percent correct and would then vote either for or against their conscience. Legally, this is a rather dubious process. That is why, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a rather stormy debate was left behind, rather than voted on, and the majority of the Commission was of the opinion that the Government of the Republic could be given the power to fix it by means of its own regulation, but to do so on the basis of the existing situation, the coordination body established in 2006, which was reflected in the complex legal sentence that I set out. That's what happened. After the Commission's debate, the amendment was put to the vote, with 7 Commission members in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. It should be said that those who opposed the submission of this Commission proposal were in favour of the option of the coordination system being included in the annex to the State Border Act. No one opposed the control line being determined by the coordinates that are currently in place. The Commission took two important decisions on 21 October. Firstly, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 5 November (this decision was consensual) and secondly, it was proposed that the second reading be closed today (by 7 members of the Commission, with 3 abstentions). That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U104	Any questions for the waitress? Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In a way, I have a speculative question. We are currently waiting for the Russian Federation to be the first to ratify the border treaty. This is where I have a two-way question. Firstly, after the agreement has been ratified by the two parties, do we have to reform this law, because the term like the border line disappears and then we already have a border? Secondly, is this law harmonised, let us say, with this framework of the border treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U106	Thank you. The border agreement, as it has now been presented to Parliament in both countries, defines the location of the border in a descriptive way. After the agreement has been ratified by both parties, the two-sided Demarking Committee must be set up, which has the right to go 50 metres to one side and 50 metres to the other from the current defined baseline, based on natural needs. But it has to be equal to: if in one place there is some piece of land on one side, then in the other place there must be the same piece of land on the other side. It is only after this work has been completed that we have an exact coordinate system in which there is a border between the two countries. Should this be precisely stated in the state border law, it is a question of decision-making. Perhaps it would be rational for it to be precisely enshrined in the law, but it can really only be done once this committee has completed its work. The prerequisite for the Commission to start work at all is the ratification of the bilateral border agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U107	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U108	Thank you, manager. Good colleague! I am of the opinion that the Riigikogu could legitimise this coordination body, but the committee went differently. I am asking what was not really discussed in the Commission. Since the border between Estonia and Russia is a two-sided border, or is it a control line, no matter what we call it, should we inform the other side? Should it not have been discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U109	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue in the Commission. However, we discussed what the propaganda steps of Russia could be if the Estonian side raised the level of legal determination of the control line. We all know that Russia is based not only on rational arguments but also on propaganda arguments. We discussed that if, for example, the Riigikogu had written this coordination system into the law, what the reaction of the Russian side would have been, and if the government did so, what the reaction would be. At the committee meeting, I also suggested that it may be reasonable to inform the other party that this is the intention on the Estonian side, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs recorded it. What the State Department is going to do is their business. I am not sure that a particular added value would be added to this bill if the Committee on Foreign Affairs were to discuss this issue. The members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs are here in the hall, one I notice at least. I guess they're gonna find out that's the kind of debate that took place. If there is a meeting with the future Foreign Minister, perhaps he will also give guidance to the ambassador in Moscow.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U110	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U111	Thank you. I want to be more specific. Let me get this straight. If this law is passed, the Estonian side is practically already marking the border line. It turns out that when this Russian-Estonian cooperation group starts working on the border line, Estonia is already ready to produce the product, the work it has done. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U112	Yeah, that's right, except there's an addition. The Russian side has already done the job. They have marked off the border to nature and identified it with border facilities. By the way, the Russian side has marked the border in its legal documents and it is really being guarded, let us say, when it comes to national borders. For us, it's still been a control line. But yes, if this two-sided committee is going to work and thinks that this line needs to be shifted, then the work done so far on both sides, as is said in Russian, will actually go to nasmarku, or empty, and then the work will have to be done again. But it's not the end of the world, it's not the end of the world, it's the kind of thing that happens between the neighbors.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U113	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Does the removal of this control line at government level also make a difference in terms of the European Union's external borders, particularly in relation to the Schengen area? Should we inform Brussels of such steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U115	Thank you. You are free to inform anyone, but in fact this coordinate system is legally determined by two documents: the order of the Russian President, Boris Yeltsin, and the command of the Estonian Border Guard, then Major Roland Peets. Very equal, isn't it? This is probably what our officials were doing when we negotiated to join the Schengen area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U116	Thank you. There are no further questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Four amendments have been tabled for draft 701. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as by the second, third and fourth amendments, which have been fully taken into account. The Commission has proposed to conclude the second reading of the draft. The second reading of Bill 701 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U117	The next item is the second reading of the Act amending the Act on Performance Institution and the Law on National Opera initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's rapporteur is Paul-Eerik Rummo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U118	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Performance Institution and the National Opera Act took place in this Chamber on 8 October and the deadline for submitting amendments was 22 October. The Committee on Culture prepared a second reading on 23 October. Firstly, it was stated that no amendments had been received. The Committee on Culture itself also felt that there was no need to change this draft in any way. The committee decided to consensually send the draft as it was at first reading, for the second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 5 November, and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U119	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu feel the need to ask questions to the committee rapporteur? No, I don't. I'm opening negotiations. There doesn't seem to be a need for negotiations either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 709. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U120	The next item is the second reading of draft Act 677 on Child Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Etti Kagarov, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U121	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 677, draft law on child protection, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. a 2 June. The first reading was completed on 18 June. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the member of the Riigikogu, Margus Tsahkna, tabled amendments to the draft. The opinion on the draft was sent by the Estonian Social Work Association, the initiative group on family and child protection, the NGO Association for Mother and Child Protection, the Family and Tradition Protection Foundation and the Child Protection House. The Committee on Social Affairs prepared a second reading in five sessions. The public meeting on 22 September had been convened by the complainants. Kadri Lees, representative of the Centre for Applied Social Sciences of the University of Tartu, carried out an overview of the impact analysis of the Child Protection Act. Tõnu Poopuu, Head of Children's Rights at the Department of Social Affairs, gave a brief overview of the draft Child Protection Act. The representative of the Estonian Social Work Association and the representative of the NGO Association for the Protection of Mothers and Children, the representatives of the Child Protection Association, the Child Interest Protection Chamber and the Chancellor of Justice, presented their opinions and proposals. The meeting was also attended by the Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütt, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Justice, the Social Insurance Board, the Estonian Youth Association and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. The Committee on Social Affairs also discussed the opinions and referrals sent at its meeting on 20 October. Representatives of the initiative group on family and child protection were invited to the meeting. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice also participated in the meeting. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft and its opinions and amendments at its meetings on 21 and 23 October and 3 November. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice took part in these meetings. Now a brief overview of the amendments. The first amendment introduced a sentence: 'The natural environment for the development and growth of a child is family' in order to highlight the importance of the family for the development and growth of a child. The third amendment amended the obligation of the local government unit to create a child protection worker to assist children, families with children and other people raising children, where appropriate. It was replaced by the obligation of the local government unit to create the conditions for child welfare work with the aim of ensuring that the tasks listed in subsection 1 of this section are carried out. The fifth amendment was decided not to take account of the fact that it is not reasonable to provide for the obligation for a person who is raising a child or working with a child to cooperate with specific professionals, including a social worker. It must be understood that the person raising the child and the person working with the child have a duty to assess the child's need for help and, consequently, to react and seek help. It is not always necessary to cooperate with a child welfare officer. Cooperation with specialists must be based on the child's material need for assistance and best support to meet this need for assistance. Amendment 6 was not taken into account since Paragraph 28 (1) of the draft already provides that, when assessing the child's need for assistance, the child protection worker or the person working with the child, if necessary, shall involve the specialist concerned. It is therefore not necessary to duplicate the obligation to include a psychologist or a psychiatrist in the assessment in § 28 (2) of the draft. With partial consideration of Amendment 7 and Amendment 9, the separation from the family of a child in danger is extended to 72 hours instead of the initial 48 hours, on the basis of a decision by the local authorities. The Ministry of Social Affairs has consulted with child protection workers in local government units on this issue and it has become apparent that in practice, in such cases, the court will be addressed with a request within three working days to separate the child from the family in an initial legal protection procedure. In cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, it has been established that the courts are prepared to deal with applications for provisional legal protection within 48 hours by using a system of judges already operating in the courts. The Estonian Social Work Association has stated in its address that local government units will not be able to prepare a court with sufficient detail within such a deadline. It is also noted that such cases usually take place outside working hours and therefore it is not possible to ensure that child protection workers react in a timely manner. The Commission accepted the opinion that 48 hours may not be enough time for the local government unit to apply to the court for preliminary legal protection to separate the child from the family. However, the deadline should be as short as possible to ensure that the fundamental rights and freedoms of persons are kept to a minimum. It is appropriate to extend the deadline laid down in § 33 (2) of the draft act to 72 hours. The partial consideration of Amendment 8 and Amendment 9 complements § 33 of the draft and adds to the possibility of assigning a child's place of stay in the process of separating a child from the family of a child in danger the possibility of determining the child's and the parent's social arrangements. Paragraph 33 (1) of the draft act allows the temporary separation of the child from the family to decide on the place of stay of the child and to place the child in danger with a suitable service provider, but does not prevent the parent from communicating with the child in the future even if the parent is a source of danger. According to § 135 of the Family Act, the parent with limited custody retains the right to communicate with the child. The right of access is governed by § 143 of the Family Act, the main principle of which is to ensure that the child has the right to communicate with both parents. The same paragraph gives parents both the obligation and the right to communicate in person with the child, and this right may only be restricted by the court. The drafters consider that, if a parent has caused a temporarily separated child to become at risk and communication with the parent may continue to endanger the child, the local government unit or the Social Insurance Board must have the right to determine, if necessary, the communication arrangements between the parent and the child within the time limit laid down in § 33 (2) of the draft. This change provides an opportunity to protect children from further abuse in the above cases. According to § 33 (3) of the draft law, the local government unit or the Social Insurance Institution must in any event, within the time limit laid down in § 33 (2), apply to the court which decides on the legal relationship between the child and the parent and whether restrictions and their scope in the custody and access rights are necessary and justified. The drafters state that this is an extreme restriction, the necessity of which must be justified. However, as a general principle, it must be taken to ensure that the relationship between the child and the parent is protected and maintained. Amendment 10 lays down in § 40 (1) of the draft the right of the local government unit and the child protection officer of the Social Insurance Board to enter the possession of a child protection worker in case of a threat. The Estonian Social Work Association has pointed out that child protection workers in the local government unit need the right to enter the possession even in case of threat. The Ministry of Justice also considers that consideration should be given to clarifying the conditions of entry into possession. Paragraph 50 (1) (2) of the Law Enforcement Act covers the entry into custody of a child at risk. Paragraph 1 (3) of the same section covers the provision of requirements to ensure child protection. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 5 November and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U122	Questions for the waitress. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U123	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! I'll start with § 1. Would you explain how thoroughly you discussed this in the Commission and what were the arguments why you maintained the view that it is appropriate to implement the administrative procedure law here? All such decisions require the adoption of an administrative act and there is a right of appeal which has already put enormous bureaucratic pressure on social workers and child protection workers. In the Commission, did you also consider other, slightly less bureaucratic, possibilities for these workers to also have the opportunity to deal with the child and the family?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U124	Thank you, good questioner! The whole bill is actually aimed at prep work, prevention. However, with regard to bureaucracy, the law on administrative procedures remains important and fundamental.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U125	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U126	Thank you. When there was the first reading of this draft in this Chamber, there was a question of the inadequacy of the explanatory memorandum, because there are very widely interpreted paragraphs in the draft. The Minister was nice to say that the explanatory statement really needs to be improved. For what reason did the Commission refrain from explaining these open paragraphs or unexplained concepts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U127	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U128	Thank you for your question. I cannot answer your question because we did not address this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U129	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I do not quite agree with your argument that this draft law is rather aimed at prevention. This bill contains very precise instructions. The accuracy of these guidelines may well be questioned, but they are, however, guidelines for child protection workers and different institutions and are not intended to prevent, but to deal with results. That's why I have a question. A number of children's rights, which do not deal with a child in danger but are more general, are excluded from the current Child Protection Act. What law do you think should deal with the rights of a child that are not directly related to a child in danger?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U130	This question was answered by the representatives of the Ministry that the fundamental rights of the child are enshrined in the Constitution, in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as well as in other legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U131	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Paragraph 21 (2) (2) 2. I don't have time to read it, but how do you explain your decision to your child when he's one year old? There are no age limits. Paragraph 25 (1) 'Production, demonstration and distribution of publications, films, sound and video recordings, and objects inciting violence and violence to children are prohibited. ' This makes sense that it's random, not just what's meant for children. Paragraph 28 (2) (2) refers to the parental skills of the person raising the child. Where's the definition? Even in rural and urban areas, these skills vary, in rich and poor families they differ. Who's on it? The question, however, is this: are you satisfied with the quality of this bill? Even by looking superficially, as the letters we receive in our mailbox show, there are a lot of unexplained things here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U133	I explained earlier to you that five times this draft has been dealt with by the Commission, a number of issues have been discussed and amendments have been proposed very thoroughly. Very many proposals from the Centre Party and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association have been taken into account. This bill is now necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U134	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U135	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. For a long time, I have not received such a 'basic' answer to my question about the administrative procedure law. However, I would have liked to have heard the reasons why you gave up alternatives in the Commission, because the administrative procedure law is very burdensome for a child protection worker in terms of bureaucracy. There are a number of provisions that impose additional obligations on them. There is already a problem that they have relatively little time apart from paperwork. But now my question. You introduced 72 hours instead of 48 hours into § 33 (2) and claimed that the Ministry of Justice has determined that the judges are fine with it. Did the Commission receive any information on existing practice? Taking a child away from the family is such a fundamental decision that the court often decides within a week or two.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U136	Thank you. For 72 hours, a child in danger shall be separated from the family without judgment. This is the primary separation. You claim that the Administrative Procedure Act is very burdensome for child protection workers. Local authorities are guided in their work by the Administrative Procedure Act. The Administrative Procedure Act is one of the basic laws of local governments that they base on, so it is also the law of child protection workers who work in the local government. 72 hours may also, in my opinion, be insufficient time, as most of these events really happen on the weekend. But it is the primary application of law enforcement, it is the protection of a child in danger when the child's life or health is at risk. This is not the final decision on the basis of which the child is separated from the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U137	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U138	Please ask me a question! A minute's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U139	Do you think the child's right to grow in the family is sufficiently protected?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. My question is about family-child relationships. In particular, this Act stipulates that the law is compatible with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and § 5 lists the principles of guaranteeing the rights and well-being of the child by mentioning the right to life, survival, development and non-discrimination. However, this paragraph does not mention the principle set out in the aforementioned Declaration that special care and assistance must be given to children, convinced that the family as a basic support to society and to the natural environment of the growth and well-being of all its members, in particular children, must be provided with the necessary protection. Unfortunately, this law lays down this one of the most important principles only for a parent...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U141	Thank you, good questioner! I'm convinced that family is the best place for a child to grow up. That is why a declaratory amendment was made to the Child Protection Act, stating that a family is the natural environment for the development and growth of a child.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U142	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U143	Thank you. I will now ask a question that has been addressed to me by many people. I'm asking you to explain thoroughly. §s 4, 6 and 7 of the Bill talk about the well-being of the child. It says that local authorities must support families as far as possible, but parents have an absolute responsibility to ensure that the educational and economic needs of the child are met. Now the question arises: if the family is economically poor and cannot meet all the needs of the child, then the responsibility for the family is absolute; the municipality must help only according to the possibilities. As a result, fear has arisen, which unfortunately has also proved in many prosperous Western countries that poorer families may be in trouble with this law. What do you think of this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U144	Thank you. The attitude of local governments towards families with children is currently mostly supportive. Most local authorities have considered families with children in particular when developing their grants. I am convinced that families with children will continue to be the preference of local governments, children and families will be our priority. Paragraph 7 (2) states that the authorities of the state and local government entities and their officials, as well as legal persons governed by public or private law, must, according to their competence, support the parent or the person raising the child in ensuring the rights and well-being of the child. They must guarantee the child's well-being, as the law says.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U145	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You pointed out several times that the law was also based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. But can you tell me whether this convention is based on full scale or only on its extracts? Why would I ask that? Mrs Akkermann has already asked, and I will continue. We can also mention the rights of the child not mentioned in the draft: the right to a name, the right to citizenship, etc. This is one example, but more can be said of such examples. Is the convention based on full-scale or only extracts thereof?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U147	Thank you. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Additional Protocols take precedence over Estonian laws. So there's no double-thinking here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U148	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U149	Thank you. You have repeatedly stressed that the Convention on the Rights of the Child takes precedence over our laws, that is in any case true, and it makes no sense to rewrite it. This convention states that the interests of the child must be given priority in all instances, including in the case of legislation. But we know that last month, the law on cohabitation was passed in this very hall, which for the first time gave priority to adult interests in the case of adoption in Estonia, based on the interests of the adult. It stated that it would rather be possible to adopt gay couples in an official partnership because they could not have children for biological reasons, but that hetero couples in a partnership could not adopt them. There was such an exclusion. It was the interest of an adult, not of a child. How do you think the Child Protection Act, the situation I described and the Convention on the Rights of the Child are compatible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U150	The Child Welfare Act does not regulate cohabitation. Here the word 'family' is introduced. Adoption is allowed by the Child Protection Act in the sense that the child's interests must be taken into account here. I will tell you exactly: when consent is given for adoption, when assessing the suitability of a foster family and when placing a child in replacement care, it must be based on the continuity of the child's upbringing, taking into account the child's ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic origins. This law protects the child's interests. The Cohabitation Act does not allow adoption of foreign children. Adoption is governed by the law of the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U151	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U152	Thank you. I would very much like to congratulate the Committee on the fact that they considered it possible to add the concept of family to § 7. All we can do is regret that you yourself from this speaker's desk called it a declarative change. That's exactly what the change is. But my problem is different. Is the fact that the words 'father' and'mother' have not been used in this law intentional and based on your new understanding of the family or on any other reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U153	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U154	Thank you. Family law regulates relations between parents, parents' rights and obligations. These provisions would have been dubious here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U155	Thank you. When you answered the question of Kaia Iva, you said that Article 7 (1) of the Act refers to the family. During the discussion of the Cohabitation Act, you and your fellow Members pointed out that there is no legal definition of the family in the Republic of Estonia. So, in the meantime, is it in somewhere, in this law or in the law of cohabitation that I didn't notice? My question, however, is as follows. If this draft text came to you from the Ministry, why did the Commission consider it necessary to come up with a new complete text and not to amend the existing Child Protection Act? What major changes are needed that will result in a new, complete text?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U156	Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U157	Thank you. The current Child Protection Act was adopted in 1992. The Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared a draft of the pending Child Protection Act, and a large number of interest groups and associations were also involved. It was a draft prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U158	Thanks again! Good waitress! I understand that we agree that the best growing environment for a child is a family. The same UN convention states that in order for a child's personality to develop fully and harmoniously, a child must grow in an atmosphere of happiness, love, and mutual understanding among the family. You said that the concept of a family was included in the law declaratively, namely to emphasise the responsibility of the parent or the person raising the child. Isn't that too little? Why is there no point in the law that states that the state must support the family as a child's best growing environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U159	Thank you. Paragraph 7 'The responsibility of parent and parent and parent' states: 'State and local authorities and their officials, as well as public and private legal persons, must, in accordance with their respective competences, support the parent or the person bringing up the child in order to guarantee the rights and well-being of the child. " The same paragraph also states that a family is the natural environment for the development and growth of a child. Unfortunately, there are situations where a family is not the best place for a child to grow up because a child is being harmed there. We know of situations where help has arrived too late. Above all, the interests of the child must be taken into account. But I agree with you that family is the best place for a child to grow up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U160	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U161	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I will continue with the question put by my colleague, Mrs Pakosta. The social dimension is one of the most important things to assess the child's well-being in the family. But on the other hand, we have specific statistics. Many Estonian families live on or below the poverty line. Many children also live on or below the poverty line. If we use this social dimension about them, what will happen in practice to tens of thousands of children? Please state specifically what lies ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U162	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U163	Thank you. Poverty is not such a risk that the child should be taken away from the family. From 1 January, the first child's allowance will rise to EUR 45. This may not be enough, but it will help quite a few poor families to do better. The second child's allowance will also rise, while the third child's allowance will rise to EUR 100. We've provided a free school lunch in high school. Dealing with poverty is very important. In addition, the problem is that people work and receive a minimum wage, but they do not live with it. There is a need to raise living standards. The Child Welfare Act does not take any parent's child away because the parent is poor. The state and local government must support families, find opportunities to assist them with services or financially, as most municipalities do. There are separate birth grants, school allowances, various reimbursements, etc. Municipalities support their children and families. But, of course, prevention also needs to be given more and more attention so that there are no families that can't cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Madame waitress! Knowing the case law of the Republic of Estonia, I get chills when I read this bill. Paragraph 33 (4) requires the provider to remove the child from the family if he or she has reason to believe that the person exercising custody of the child has caused the child to be put at risk. Where does this law explain what the foundation is? What does "there is reason to believe" mean? Is that some kind of blurry look? Is that a sad story told by the neighbors? Does this have anything to do with gathering facts and drawing conclusions? 'Has caused a child to run into danger ', what is this particular danger? It's about movies. Is that the baby watching on TV...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U165	Time's up. That must be the question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U166	... movie, is there a threat? I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U167	Thank you. Got it. A child in danger is a child who is in a situation of danger to his or her life or health and a child whose behaviour threatens the life or health of his or her own or other persons. There are specific situations where the child's life may be in danger. A child in need is something else. There are two different procedures. This is certainly why it is foreseen that a child in danger must immediately find a safe place at the service provider's. I am convinced that the removal of a child from the family is the last resort for a child welfare officer. However, when a child is in danger, it must be done immediately. I myself have been in a situation where I have been forced to take my children away from my family. This emotion is still very difficult, although it all happened years ago and we got a good solution to this problem. Such a thing is not easy for any person. I am convinced that it will only be used as a last resort.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U168	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U169	Good manager! Good waitress! I see § 17 'Tasks of local government unit' in paragraph 1 (6): '... gathering information on the situation and needs of children and families in their administrative territory to create an environment conducive to the development of the child and to improve the livelihood of children, families with children and children. " For whom is this information collected, where does this information go, and what is the benefit of this information? Who's gonna solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U170	Thank you. The local government collects this information for its work and activities in particular. The creation of a supportive environment for children is also an activity undertaken by the local government, as well as improving the management of families with children in its administrative territory. Local authorities use the STAR programme, which gives a general picture of the situation of children living in the municipality. Of course, these problems are solved by the local government. The Child Welfare Act contains a whole chapter on the organisation of child welfare services in the local government unit; nothing has changed here. The same is stated in the previous Child Protection Act. Creating conditions for child welfare work is also the responsibility of the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U171	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U172	Thank you. Honourable handler! Did the Commission also talk about the prenatal development of the child in this draft? Does the child have the right to develop in his or her mother's body and have the right to be born? As I learned, there is no absolute right to a family. You're right if you say the Ministry has prepared such a draft. Many things may be prepared in the Ministry, but I recall that the laws are passed by the Riigikogu. There's no point in turning yourself into a rubber stamp. In addition to the fact that the bill is ready, I received an unsigned letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs yesterday asking for this bill to be handled without hysteria, and I am also given instructions on what I should do. You don't have to think about it. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U173	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U174	Thank you. The draft law on child protection has been dealt with for a very long time between the two plenary sessions, in a total of five sessions. In two sessions, we heard representatives of several interest groups. So it is not justified to refer to the Social Affairs Committee or the Riigikogu as a rubber stamp. There has been a great deal of discussion and new solutions. I cannot accept that this is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U175	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I listened to your answers to various questions. The last thing I heard was that a child in danger must be separated from the family immediately. Are parents really the primary source of danger for children, not their primary protectors, so that the state should protect children particularly against this threat? Next, the local government had to turn to the court as soon as the child had been taken away from the family, but now it is a five-day condition and it is still enough for an official to care.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U176	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U177	Thank you. I'll answer the second question. In the past, it was not supposed to happen immediately, but immediately. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there is also information from the Chancellor of Justice that this 'immediately' has lasted for a whole year for some municipalities. As a result, hours were brought in. Unfortunately, there are situations where a family is a threat to a child, even though it is very sad. These are very exceptional situations, but such situations exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U178	Good manager! Good waitress! I look at paragraph 21 (3) of Chapter 5. The sentence begins as follows: 'If the child's interests differ from the child's opinion... '. The child's interests hardly differ from that of the child. Maybe there should be something else, not a "child's opinion"? Isn't that a little weird? I know, having long dealt with the subject of orphanage, that children feel very well when things are bad at home, and that they will be happy to leave the house. But that line is kind of weird. Can you explain to me what it means to have a child's interests different from that of a child? How can that be? My interests and opinion are still more or less the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U179	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U180	Thank you. There are situations where, despite a very difficult situation in the family and child abuse, the child is afraid of change. In a situation where a child does not know what awaits him, he is so afraid that he may not understand what is best for him. Unfortunately, such situations may also occur. This paragraph seeks to state that the child must be given an explanation of why his or her opinion has been disregarded. He must not simply be ignored, but he must be explained why his opinion is different. There are also situations in the family where a child may want something, such as a minor who may want a car or a motorcycle. Does he have the right to do so? I think we just have to explain things to him. There are very different situations in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, This is one of the laws on which many letters are sent to members of the Riigikogu. Many of them are very serious, some even angry. They're trying to tell us that we're doing something really bad and we're about to adopt a very bad law, ruin something. I am absolutely convinced that neither you nor the entire Committee on Social Affairs, not to mention the government that drafted the draft, do we think that something needs to be made worse? We all want to make these rules better. Why do you think it has happened that some people have understood completely differently? What should have been done differently to know what would be better, and we would not receive letters from people who were mistaken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U182	Thank you. For each person, it is not possible to say why he feels that he interprets some of the points of the law as he sees fit and why, as any point of the law would harm him. I don't know how to comment on that. But I am convinced that every parent agrees that the interests of children should be protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U183	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U184	Thank you. I have not grown in a test tube or incubator, like my colleague Kõiv, which is why I have my own opinion on things. I'll ask you again. While the law currently provides for judicial control over the activities of officials, under the new regime such control, as well as the responsibility of officials for their decision, is no longer directly derived from the Child Protection Act. Why is it changed? Secondly, a few years ago, I held an auction in Lääne-Virumaa, with which we supported a large family with ten children, the father was dead and the children's situation was very difficult. Now, if any official decides that these children live in very tidy conditions, what is a mother's opportunity under this law to keep her children with her?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U185	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U186	Thank you. It is the responsibility of the local government to help the troubled family, to assess the need for help and to find solutions, to provide services. A municipal child welfare worker can also find support in the system set up by the Social Insurance Board in order to support the family. When a mother raises ten children alone, of course, the problem is material. Here he is helped by the rise in child benefits, the benefits for families with many children and a number of services.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U187	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I ask about what certain people have already pointed out. Is there any connection between the law on partnership and the law on child protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U188	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U189	Thank you. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U190	Thank you. The law still makes very important paradigmical changes compared to the current situation. Reading this material makes you sad because the proposals of many associations have not been taken into account. In short, it can be said that officials will gain more power, but the role of family and father and mother will be reduced. The changes are actually bigger than they appear in the text at the beginning. Is it known whether the law will be supplemented by any implementing legislation that will provide more framework for officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U191	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please! Three minutes extra time for Liisa-Ly Pakosta.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U192	The implementing acts come with the order of the Government of the Republic and the decree of the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U193	Ladies and gentlemen, If you read this bill, at first glance, it looks like a pretty good bill. I particularly like the draft chapters 3 and 4, which create a procedure for dividing the responsibility of the state and local government in organising child welfare work. So far, one of the biggest concerns has been that cooperation between authorities has lagged and there has not been a clear division of competence and responsibility. This concern can be resolved nicely in Chapter 3 and 4 of the draft. I would like to congratulate the drafters who, in really tight circumstances, have put together a new draft law. As we can see from the explanatory memorandum and as we have also understood from the explanations on the draft, the establishment of a cooperation mechanism for officials has been one of the main objectives of this draft. But, as usual, in the opposition, we are doing our job too, and it is my duty here, of course, to draw attention to the shortcomings of the draft. The first recommendation I have for the government is to increase the number and role of the employees of the Department of Children and Families in the Ministry of Social Affairs, because it is not normal that there are many more people dealing with equality in the Republic of Estonia than with children and families. In part, the mistakes that I now point out are due precisely to the lack of resources that the Department of Social Affairs has had to use for children and families. The main drawback of this draft is, in particular, a short or partially non-existent explanatory memorandum. Unfortunately, we saw in this discussion in this Chamber and we also see from the letters sent by people that very many sentences in this draft can be interpreted in various ways. Therefore, it would have been essential not just to supplement the explanatory memorandum with the long and thorough explanations of the new paragraphs that have been designed under the new provisions and how they will work in practice. If we take similar drafts and laws from other countries of the European Union as a comparison, we will find at least four pages to explain one such sentence. But the explanatory memorandum to our draft has a few words on very important sentences, and in very many cases, it has been left unexplained at all. Unfortunately, my time does not allow me to highlight all these points, I will stop at just two. Just a few items ago, we discussed the amendments to the pre-school child institution law. To change the three sections, the Committee on Culture held ten long and very meaningful meetings under the chairman of Swan. All the points that were adopted needed detailed clarification and important improvements were also provided in the draft explanatory memorandum. However, from § 36 of the draft Act on Child Welfare, which talks about children's institutions, we find a sentence that says that a child in a child's institution has the right to contact a person who is raising a child, regardless, in order to submit opinions and complaints about the activities of a child institution. In practice, this means that if this law is adopted, every kindergarten child must have the right to call his or her mother or father at all times and give him or her an opinion on the work of the institution. Again, during the discussion on the item mentioned earlier, we found that the Pre-school Childhood Act was supplemented by the fact that in the future children will have the right to be accompanied only by a teacher whose education and preparation has not been made subject to any demands. How this will work in practice and what is meant more precisely would have required a much longer explanation. I don't want to be in the shoes of kindergarten managers or kindergarten group teachers to whom worried parents are going to turn because of this point. As parents, we know that for some time, each child wants to call his mother or father from kindergarten and give an opinion on what is happening in kindergarten. If the previous one was even presented in the key to humor, then from now on, it's gonna get a little bit more serious. Paragraph 24 'No Child Abuse. " Child abuse is so horrible that no parent would want to do that to his child. Unfortunately, we have seen from the recent Estonian case that, before the adoption of this law, before the neglect of a child has been turned into wrongdoing or mistreatment, two levels of justice have already expressed the view that leaving a seven-year-old child home alone by the afternoon is abuse and neglect of the child. Only the Supreme Court was granted a right: leaving a seven-year-old child home alone is normal in Estonia and therefore cannot be qualified as neglecting a child. Unfortunately, the draft explanatory memorandum does not say anything about what the draft authors, or even the Committee on Social Affairs, have meant more precisely by neglecting a child or intimidation of a child. For example, is reading "Sinibeard" a fairy tale to scare a child or not? I remember from my childhood that I couldn't sleep many nights after hearing that fairy tale, so horrible a fairy tale. But so far, this fairy tale is part of the world's literary classic, and I read it to my children without any pain of conscience. The explanatory memorandum, which at length and in depth dissects and clarifies the paragraphs of the law, would not only have been the solution for the better functioning of the law, but would also have eliminated all the stress that parents have already suffered and which, after the adoption of the law, could probably still be theirs. Let me remind you that a stressed parent is perhaps even more harmful, even dangerous, to a child, and we should avoid any unnecessary stress in parents. Unfortunately, we also know that, as beauty is in the eyes of the viewer, the understanding of neglect or intimidation of a child depends exactly the same on the eyes of the viewer. We know from other countries where such sections exist in the law that despite their long and thorough transcripts, there are always instances that violate the sense of justice of society and families. I wouldn't want this to happen in Estonia. Without necessarily delaying the adoption of this law, it would be necessary to include these parts of the explanatory memorandum. It is very important that families feel confident that, in loving their children and trying to do everything best in the interests of their children, even in poor economic circumstances, they should not be afraid of knocking on the door of a child protection worker who wishes to control, nor should the economic or physical circumstances of the child be such that they are in danger. Thank you very much for listening. I hope that the explanatory memorandum will receive long and comprehensive improvements as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U194	Mailis Reps, please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U195	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I share some thoughts with you on the second reading of the draft law on child protection 677. We in our group have also discussed the Child Protection Act. We have done this not only today, but also on previous occasions. A number of questions arose. Some of them do not want to repeat, because they have already come up here in the round of questions and answers when talking about the family and the child growing up in the family. But first of all, I would like to thank everyone who has processed and prepared the draft law on child protection. The aim of bringing the new Child Protection Act before the Riigikogu is to be welcomed. The previous law was already passed in 1993. Indeed, in the meantime, in addition to the application of a number of child protection regulations and regulations, we have added case law, our country has become older and the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child has done a very grateful job, interpreting a number of provisions relating to the rights of the child. So such a new approach and a new child protection law based on the experience of other countries is very necessary. With regard to the procedural process, it has already been pointed out that the Commission has met five times and that there have been meetings with stakeholders before. Perhaps there should have been more of these meetings then in order to further discuss the Child Protection Act. If the second reading of Bill 677 is completed today, I hope that this will not happen again and that no additions will be made to the bill, then it is clear that the new Riigikogu will have to return to the Child Protection Act very soon, because many sections will not be able to be implemented without further interpretation and clarification. I'll bring up some problems. I have already stressed in my question that child protection workers are very concerned about the emphasis on § 1. It sets out the law on administrative procedures. We are strictly guided by the fact that all acts concerning the rights of the child and support for the family must comply with the law of administrative procedure. However, a child welfare worker could have some time to deal with people in addition to paperwork. It is certainly possible to introduce 677 many more exceptions to the draft. Instead of dealing with administrative legislation, a child protection worker should be given more opportunities to deal with and support families. Paragraph 29 (3) states that the local government unit must decide, within 10 days of becoming aware of the child in need, whether to initiate or not to initiate a case order or to transmit the case to the competent authority. Let's see what that really means. A person who goes to a family in need of help tries to establish a reliable relationship with that family, a dialogue. A trusting relationship is needed so that any further steps can be taken. If the mandatory deadline is 10 days, this could mean a break in the dialogue and an end to the trust relationship. We have introduced two-tier child protection on several occasions in the draft on the example of Norway, and we could also look here at Nordic practice, which has left much more time and space for a reasonable dialogue before something has to be put together on paper as a final act. Now I am talking very much about the controversial § 33 (2), the temporary separation of a child in danger from the family. This 72 hours may in practice lead to a situation where the court is not prepared to make a substantive decision within that period. If, indeed, there is an extreme case and the child is in danger, we certainly do not want by law to create a situation in which the child is either returned to the family without further decision, or that paragraph will be violated, and subsequent procedural procedures are already necessary to bring about a new amendment to the Child Protection Act. There is a major concern that the Child Protection Act does not solve. We are very sorry about this, and we stress that we must come back to it as a matter of urgency. This concerns the possession of information. In order for children's guards to be able to approach the situation less bureaucraticly, they also need information, such as information from medical institutions about children in danger. There is certainly a need to get information from family doctors, schools and other childcare facilities, and there is a need for constant communication with them. When we talk about a human approach, not a case-by-case approach, but a human approach, it is clear that rapid exchange of information is essential. Because of the information lock, the children are not getting help on time. In such a situation, it is only after-and sometimes very late that people intervene. This is particularly important in cases of domestic violence. One proposal that has been pointed out by child protection workers and social workers, but which unfortunately did not find support in dealing with the draft law on the protection of children, is the so-called co-operation or substitution of fine or penalty money by other measures. If the family is obliged to pay a fine or a penalty, we say politely, no matter what, because a fine cannot be imposed on them because of their income, the only motivating system would be to temporarily give the guardianship authority the right to decide on parental benefits for that family. This would be an opportunity to develop a dialogue with this family so that they would have an interest in listening to what child protection workers are worrying about. I'm sure there's still a problem. What was discussed here today in the round of questions and answers, I did not want to repeat or repeat. As a result of all of the above, the Estonian Centre Party Group has a proposal to the Board of the Riigikogu to interrupt the second reading of the draft 677 Child Protection Act and return to the substantive discussion of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U196	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The 2003 analysis of the Child Protection Act says that the Child Protection Act of the Republic of Estonia, adopted in 1992, is unique in Europe because it lists in detail the rights, freedoms and obligations of the child. However, they are rather slogans, which do not reflect reality, since they cannot regulate our daily lives. The implementation of the law is fully delegated to the government, but legislation on child protection in almost all other countries is primarily operational. The Chancellor of Justice, child protection organisations and the child protection staff of the local government have made the same criticism. When we talk about the rights of the child, I believe that, above all, terrible examples of abuse or even physical violence come before our eyes. Happily, however, this does not affect many. Children's rights do not begin or end with tragic, drastic examples. It is not easy to talk about matters related to the rights of the child today, as the lines of work are in the administration of the multi-session institution of Harali and this makes it difficult to see the whole. The new Child Protection Act aims to ensure the protection of the rights of all children by clarifying the principles of protection of the rights and well-being of the child and describing the tasks to be carried out by each level and by the parties in order to ensure the well-being of the child. Recommendation No 1286 of the European Parliamentary Assembly, the 'European Children' Strategy' since 1996, provides guidance to Member States on how to make policy decisions that take account of children's interests. The message is that the impact on children should be analysed before any action programme or legislation is adopted. Now for the new Child Protection Act. The new law creates better conditions for supporting the child and his or her family or those raising him or her. The draft imposes a duty on the state and local government to support persons raising children and parents. Preventing, not dealing with the consequences so far, is also a key element of the new Child Protection Act. One of the major shortcomings of the current child protection work has been insufficient prevention work, which has been referred to, for example, by the National Audit Office, which found in the 2013 report that prevention work is one of the most critical issues that needs to be resolved with the participation of the state. To this end, the new Child Protection Act introduces, as a separate provision, the obligation to prevent all institutions and persons who are in contact with children. It also provides for the obligation for all persons who have information on the child's need for assistance to report the child in need. This way you can prevent cases that may later have a fatal ending. In order to ensure the well-being of children, officials and persons working with children need to cooperate between areas. State and local government officials and other specialists working with children, child protection workers, family doctors, teachers, police officers, school psychologists and others must cooperate in planning, financing and implementing activities for all children. In addition, they must certainly involve children and parents. A child welfare worker must be competent. The new Child Protection Act sets out the requirements for a child welfare worker and limits the employment of a person working with children. According to the law, a child protection worker must have professional qualifications and higher education. Here, thank you... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U198	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U199	... Anniki Tikerpuud, Signe Riisalo and Tõnu Poopuu, who have done a great job together with the social partners, so that at last there would be a draft in the Chamber of Riigikogu, which clearly states the tasks of each level and party that must be done to ensure the well-being of the child. In summing up, the child protection law under discussion solves many of the problems that are currently in the air. I'll give you one more thing. The amendments to the Child Protection Act were contradictory: one wanted one, the other wanted the other. Both the Centre Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Association put forward their proposals, but there were very few proposals, they could be counted on the fingers of one hand and the issues raised today were not addressed in them. Perhaps only this 72 hours and a few more topics were addressed in the proposals of the Centre Party. In that sense, it's a shame. Proposals must be made at the right time; politicians know this very well. It would then have been possible to discuss these proposals. I repeat, however, that the proposals from the interest groups submitted to the Committee on Social Affairs contradicted each other. One wanted one, the other wanted the other, and if we had voted in one, the others would have been upset. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U200	Priit Onion, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm based on ideals in my life. Of course I know and see what is happening around us, but the goals must be set on the basis of ideals, ideals must also be in this Chamber when it comes to legislation. According to the fact that a child has a loving mother and father, and there is no need to protect him from anyone or anything, that we are prepared to view the family as sacred and, if necessary, to help the family, this bill, which some have called the best in the world, will not suffer criticism. With this draft, we are taking a lot of steps forward in child protection, but in the social sense, these are steps in the opposite or the wrong direction. The ideological axis of this bill is a freak. We here and no government have done anything since Estonia regained independence to protect and honor the basis for the survival and growth of our society. The draft we are discussing today is a forceful parallel of less than a month ago against the law of cohabitation adopted by the people. That's when they said nobody's taking anything away. Perhaps some of the supporters of the bill believed it. But the scarier thing is that the law of cohabitation didn't add anything to anyone, it just caused a lot of trouble in society. That's what happens with the Child Welfare Act. The current version of the Child Welfare Act takes away the child's mother and father and gives him the person raising the child. Well, maybe it doesn't seem so scary at first, but we need to understand that every rude definition raises the next problem and doesn't bring solutions. We can call abortion an abortion, or what it really is, the content of killing unborn children remains the same. The way of thinking changes over time, we have to admit it. 'Torture', which is clearly a bad word, has become 'confidence', which most people already consider to be normal. We don't mind kids hanging out. They're somebody's, and we don't have a problem. Actually, it's a big problem, but we don't care. We are not talking here today about how to help them, but we think they need protection. Ladies and gentlemen, They, like many other children, need first and foremost attention, care, and help, only then protection. We need to think about how to help the children and families where they grow. The law should clearly define 'child in need' and 'child in danger', but we are dealing with other issues there. Firstly, the draft creates an understanding that children should be protected from their parents. A vision of a conflicting relationship between children and parents will be created, and then a regulation will be developed to ensure the help of the state to the weaker party, the child. The bill carries a socialist mentality, according to which the state is increasingly interfering with the law of parents to raise and care for their children. Parents will be reduced to a position where their natural right to raise their children and care for them will be treated as a privilege granted by the State. This is also evident from the fact that at first there was no reference in the draft law on the protection of children to the principle laid down in § 27 of the Constitution, according to which parents have the right and obligation to raise and care for their children. There was also no reference in the draft to the related principle that the natural environment for the development and growth of a child is a family. In any case, there is still no natural right to mother and father in the new draft law on child protection. 'Mom' and 'Dad' are words that are never mentioned in the draft law on child protection. A number of the elements contained in the current Child Protection Act, essential principles that explicitly recognise not only the rights of the child, but also its responsibilities, have been excluded from the draft. The introduction of the child's obligations in the draft is important in order to understand the balancing context within which the rights of the child must be interpreted. Without a clear introduction of the child's responsibilities, it may be that the law is being misinterpreted, as parents would require children to fulfil their moral, family and social obligations, would constitute activities that could be considered as a violation of children's rights and, as such, could be considered a justification for public intervention in family relations. The problem is the fact that, while the draft stipulates that matters concerning children must be based on the best interests of the child, it does not specify that decisions which affect the child directly or indirectly must be based primarily on the interests of the family and on the views of the parents and, in the event of conflict, on the views or interests of someone else, on the first mention, where possible. By this exclusion, the possibility of claiming that an approach that does not contradict the interests of children and parents should always be preferred when interpreting the law but seeks to deal with them together. This, in turn, will create better opportunities to interfere with the rights of parents and the family. Although the draft Child Protection Act prohibits the distribution of pornographic content among children, at the same time it does not say a word about the dissemination of various other information which also harms children's physical or mental health or their physical, intellectual or moral development. In order not to act hypocritically, we should also think seriously about the ban on the distribution of pornographic images and films among children. If the legislator is genuinely interested in achieving the objective of this ban, consideration should be given to limiting the wide availability of pornographic material on the Internet. After all, all children who have access to an Internet - connected computer or phone have access to the most hideous content of pornography in just a few moments. In conclusion, there are many serious and fundamental problems in the draft law on child protection, which once again reveals how the legislative trend in Estonia is becoming more anti-family. When asked why I or IRL did not propose amendments, I assure you that the problems that I dealt with were reflected in the proposals and concerns presented by the NGO Association for the Protection of Mothers and Children, the Family and Tradition Protection Foundation and the proposals put forward by the Initiative Group on Family and Child Protection. The experience of many countries shows that legal regulation such as the draft is intended to bring about serious problems, particularly because of the far too strong and extensive interference of public authority in the natural rights of the family. In Norway, whose regulation has been developed, more than a thousand children are separated each year from the family, and in many cases the separation of children from the mother and father has been clearly unjustified. Similar trends are said to exist in Finland, where children are taken from the family by force. The anonymous truth that came to us yesterday from the Ministry of Social Affairs is regrettable. We had a draft and a letter arrived yesterday saying that we should not work too hard, that we were meant for, that all we had to do was adopt the law. I don't think that's a good idea. The biggest reason I am opposed to this bill is not what can be read in the law, but, above all, what is left unwritten, i.e. that it is not intended to define precisely who is a child in need or in danger and who and when must be assisted. The draft says that the state is going to help the local government, but we are not going to rule out who and when is going to help the child or the family who needs help. To conclude, we need not a child protection law, but a law to help a child in need. Thank you. In my speech, I used the material prepared by Varro Vooglaiu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U202	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U203	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the time has come for another Minister for Child Protection to be needed. What do you think of that? I just don't see any other way. You see, in my life there has been an experience of participating in two representative bodies: I have been a member of the Narva City Council and the Riigikogu. I will tell you with full responsibility not to go through such a bill in the City Council of Narva. If a normal member of the elected public council read in the section "Following the child's interests' that the child should be explained about the content and reasons of the proposed decision, the child must be heard, Tõn-tõn-tõn-tõn-tõn, he would ask, but what if the child is one or a half years old. Where is this provision that makes the difference between a baby and a ten-year-old? If you can't write it down, there's a very simple solution. All members of the Riigikogu know that if they do not know what to do, they must write that they will establish the Government of the Republic. Give this job to the Government of the Republic and demand him! There is only one place in this law that states that the Government of the Republic will establish, this applies to the composition of the child protection council. Everything else is just a declaration. Every page, almost every other section has a problem. 'Prohibition of the distribution of violent and pornographic objects. 'Oh, yeah, you're forbiding it. The text of the paragraph reads as follows: 'Production of publications, films, sound and video recordings and objects that encourage violence and violence is prohibited.. ' What are you going to ban? Are you going to ban the United States from producing horror movies and action films? How does a law like this come into force by intelligent people? Do not mention that the opposition did not propose amendments. I'm based on the fact that our intellectual level is more or less the same, and you can see weaknesses in every bill. Every normal person has to see them! 'Assessment of the need for help', this paragraph arouses a great deal of emotion in me. When assessing the child's need for assistance, the parental skills of the person raising the child must be assessed by a child protection worker. Okay. What are these parental skills? Come and tell me! Do it in such a way that it can be identified and put on paper! How it's gonna be done, I'd like to know. One thinks so, the other thinks differently. One thinks parental skill is gunfire, the other thinks riding. Listen, this thing is even worse than the land tax exemption law, it's the worst thing that's happened here in four years. There's so much trouble here, it's terrible! 'The local government unit must identify and document the child's opinion when assessing the need for assistance and providing assistance to the child in need (the child must be identified from the child! Great! (M.S.) and include it in the mandatory case plan for the child, unless otherwise provided by a special law. ' Again, how does he do it? That's a nice line. But explain to me how this is possible! Imagine a child of one and a half years and tell me. Paragraph 32 'Targeting a child at risk of harm to safe conditions'. Very good, very beautiful! But see what sentence you have here: 'A child in danger must be immediately assisted (Accepted. (M.S.) and eliminate the situation that endangers the child's life or health. ' So. If, for example, there is a house in danger of collapse, what do you think should be disposed of? I understand you want to take care of the situation, but it turns out in the text that you want to take care of this house. For what money? Who will take these decisions? What else? That's the expression 'if he has reason to believe. ' This is from the second question that I asked the Commission's rapporteur, and to which I also received an answer. I quote Mrs Kagarov: 'I am convinced that it will only be used as a last resort. " We must not rely on convictions. I don't want a policeman to stop me on the highway, he's based on his convictions, not the law. I want the judge to follow the law, not his convictions. This conviction doesn't comfort me because people are people. That's what you could say about a random person, and we wouldn't need any police and justice, because no one would break the law. How can you even talk like that? I just don't know, ladies and gentlemen. Basically, I do not object, there is probably a need to amend the Child Protection Act and to make it a practically viable document. But that doesn't mean that even if the former minister wants it so badly, it's his baby here on the table, right? Then we have to adopt this law. Even if we interrupt reading, I hope that you will find the strength to do so and to continue working with this law, I will say that I will not make amendments. In my opinion, the weaknesses in this text are absolutely clear and you should see for yourself how this law will work in the local government. What kind of people do you put into work there, an angel from heaven or an ordinary human? 'If he has reason to believe', and he happens to have some kind of hatred for this family, and this often happens, then he abuses his condition. The law must not create presumptions of abuse. My colleague, Onion, spoke of them before me. There are thousands of cases, tens of thousands in England, when such a law has been abused. So be human and think about your grandchildren. It may be that there is no child protection for them anymore, but they may become victims of this law. Find your strength and stop reading! We're still working on that law! There's just no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U204	Kaia Iva, please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone in the field of child protection has probably been waiting for the new Child Protection Act to be completed. The old law is too general, there are no clear guidelines on how to help an endangered and needy child. There is also no division of responsibilities between administrations. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal highlights the shortcomings in ensuring the well-being of the child. It mentions child abuse, lack of support for parenthood, the sanctioning nature of measures to date, such as separating a child from a light-armed family instead of prevention, and it also helps too few children to return to the biological family because substitution care is seen as a final and good option. However, many of these bottlenecks are actually overlooked by this draft. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law sets out three objectives of the law. Firstly, the best way of protecting the child's interests, secondly, the development of national child protection organisation and the improvement of national supervision, thirdly, the improvement of the quality of child protection work of local authorities. The draft law deals primarily with the second and third objectives, i.e. the sanctioning part, the organisation of supervision and the description of the codes of conduct of child protection workers. Understandably, the lack of guidance or uncertainty in everyday practical work has been felt. Hence the emphasis on the draft. At the same time, regrettably little attention has been paid to the first in the list of objectives, to all children, to the description of the grounds for protecting the child's interests and to legitimising the rights of the child. Although the draft explanatory memorandum states that the Child Protection Act will be introduced in order to shape the behaviour and way of life that values the child in society and promotes the development of the child, as well as to create an environment that supports the child, the draft does not really open up these issues, and a number of children's rights are now not covered by any law. It is regrettable that among the fundamental principles of ensuring the well-being of the child, the right of the child to grow in the family is not mentioned. The explanations refer to the fact that since the importance of the family is covered by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is neither necessary nor justified to repeat it in law. The question arises as to why four specific principles have been rewritten from the same convention in the text of the law, if they are also well written in the convention itself. However, among the fundamental principles of the draft law is the convention's provision that the child must grow among the family in order for the child's personality to develop fully and harmoniously. The family as a growing environment is only mentioned in § 7 of the Act when speaking about parental responsibility. The explanation that this provision is contained in the Convention, which takes precedence over Estonian laws, cannot be accepted either. After all, Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child also states: "In all kinds of activities involving children, the interests of the child must be given priority by public or private social welfare institutions, courts, executive or legislative bodies. " However, this did not interfere with the vote of 40 parliamentarians in this very hall in favour of the provision of the Cohabitation Act, where the child's interests are not put first in describing the right to adopt, but, for the first time, in describing the right to adopt in Estonia, the interests of an adult are taken into account. I would remind you that this law gave registered couples of the same sex the right to adopt third-party children because, for medical reasons, these couples themselves cannot have children. However, it was ruled out that healthy heterosexual couples who were subject to a partnership agreement could adopt third-party children because they themselves were able to have children. Since it was evident in this Chamber today that the lead judge of the Child Protection Act did not know what was voted on when adopting the Cohabitation Act, I read in advance of § 15 (4) of the Law: 'A registered partner may adopt a third-party child during the period of validity of the Cohabitation Agreement if the restrictions laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this section would be extremely unfair to partners. " The explanatory memorandum to the Law describes this injustice when a couple do not have children for medical reasons. Perhaps we have already given the advantage of adoption, for example, to two men who are involved in a partnership agreement. This is an example of where putting the child's interests at the forefront is not guaranteed in Estonian law. When the draft law on child protection deals thoroughly with the description of the separation of the child from the family, it is understandable why it would be natural to assume that the same law clearly describes the right to grow in the child's family as a basic prerequisite. If you look at some more details, there will probably continue to be problems with the new, refined codes of conduct for child protection workers, which have already been repeatedly highlighted in this Chamber. They are also interpreted in many ways in the current form of the law. For example, § 24 states that physical strength may only be used within the meaning of this Act to limit the movement or movement of a child to the extent necessary to ensure that the life and health of the child or of the persons around him is not endangered. But when a three - year - old throws himself on the floor in a shop, screams and swings his feet, taking him to his armpits and taking him to the shop door is strictly forbidden by law. § 20 of the draft law states that as a child protection worker, a person who has been convicted of drug trafficking for minors may not be in employment. However, there are no restrictions for a person who has been involved in drug trafficking with adults. Is that really what it's meant to be? Nor can I imagine whether our family's seven-year-old child, who arrived home from the school's afternoon group at 4:00 today, has been neglected and is the sacred duty of every citizen to notify him on the children's help phone number. You'd think that last example was exaggerated. But I know it's not. I know a family with its own biological children, but who wanted to adopt a preschool child without parental care. In addition, the child welfare officer expressed the view that it was not advisable to give a child to the family, since both parents are working and, apparently, it is not possible to raise the child well enough. If a child welfare worker thinks that an orphanage is a better place for a child than a family, because the tutor is always in the house, then it is clear that the law must provide more precise guidance and be more explicit. The draft is a long step in the right direction, but there are no more general provisions on child protection. Children whose life or health is not in danger are out of observation. As a fundamental principle of child welfare, the right to grow in a family has not been laid down. In order to remedy these shortcomings, we propose that the second reading of the draft be discontinued. Since the aim is to enforce the law from 2016, there is no time pressure, and it would probably be possible to provide a large part of the explanations in the draft explanatory memorandum. This would be the fastest and most effective way to prevent any further delay, as it would be regrettable if the interpretations of the law were to become apparent through painful, time-consuming and family-traumatic case law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U206	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U207	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not have any desire today, nor did I have any intention of coming to this speaker's desk, but since I did not get any answers from the Commission's rapporteur and I did not think there were any specific answers to the previous questions, I have to say that I was just a little upset. In my opinion, there has been another major change in the new Child Protection Act compared to the previous law. A child has no responsibility, whatever it is, whether it's a duty to learn, to be a good child, to do homework, or to do anything. It doesn't matter now. Mari-Liis Sesmin, Counsellor of Public Relations of the Chancellor of Justice, has said about this bill: 'The new position on the draft law on the protection of children has not been given in writing by the Chancellor of Justice. On 22 September, however, a public hearing took place in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu on the draft law on child protection, where the amendments of the various parties to the draft were discussed. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Association for Social Work, the NGO Association for Mother and Child Protection, the Child Protection Association, the Child Protection House and the Parents' Association. Representatives of the Chancellor of Justice also took part in the sitting, who explained the comments previously made to the members of the Commission and stressed the need to clarify the provisions governing the separation of the child from the family separately. They also recommended that in the draft law, the municipalities write down more specifically what they should do to prevent risks to the child's well-being and development. In conclusion, we are of the opinion that this draft does not solve all the problems of child protection... " To be correct, I must say that the sentence ended this way: '... But it's a step forward. " That is what the Chancellor of Justice's Public Relations Advisor said. The previous speakers also referred to the fact that many things are unspoken or unwritten; the explanatory statement is not accurate. The rapporteur for the Commission mentioned on my question that the child must certainly be separated from the family immediately in the event of an emergency and that small changes have also been made here. To some extent, I received an answer, but not entirely. Now let me give you another example. We are always talking about child protection workers in local governments. A study has been carried out in Estonia on the qualifications of social workers working in local governments and child protection workers. What did it show? Only 55% of them have professional higher education, quite a few have secondary education or have completed higher education in a different field of study, such as agronomy. In one of Estonia's major areas, social workers have a basic education. There are also qualified people who really have the authority to take a child away from the family. We have a lot of... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U208	... The northern ones set an example. I will give some examples of changes in Finland. Estonian children's protection critics believe that we have a very good and fertile soil here for great corruption and making money on children's account. In Finland, municipalities receive public support in proportion to the number of children relocated. In 2012, more than 600 million euros moved to Finland in child protection. In ten years, the number of private children's homes has doubled, and local governments already buy 70% of all services related to children's and young people's nursing homes and replacement families from private individuals. If we look at these examples and know that it is relatively easy to take a child out of the family in Estonia, too, and parents estimate that it is not easy to argue with child welfare authorities when taking children away, then in a bad dream, it can become a relatively good project to make a bisnise. I asked a question to the Commission's waitress and gave an example that a few years ago I organized a charity auction in Lääne-Viru County for a woman in her 40s who would raise ten children alone. We helped him buy a refrigerator and everything else he needed, unfortunately not a washing machine, because there is no plumbing in their house. I did not get a reply from the Commission representative, and I do not think that will be provided by the Child Protection Act either. If the municipal child welfare officer is malicious, he says that the mother who raises ten children cannot manage to raise her children, they must not be in the home where there is no running water and no euro repair because they are not suitable for this environment. Who's gonna give you a guarantee that this isn't gonna happen? How can this working mother apply to a court that pays the costs and what is the judgment if, for example, a child defender with a doctorate has made an impartial assessment that children do not fit into the family? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U209	Please give me three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U210	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U211	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is probably right that we need today's new Child Protection Act. The efforts of all those who have contributed to the preparation of the current second-reading draft must be recognised. However, I cannot get rid of the feeling that something has been going wrong since the beginning of this Child Protection Act. My better understanding has gone this way for two reasons, which are partly contradictory. Sincere desire to protect children, while thinking about the future and development of the state and the nation, has been sought to define a child as something special, half-mystified, who primarily needs protection from the evil people who surround him in the family and in society. True, we have evil. It is in the family and it is in society, but it is very difficult for me to accept a basic attitude that sees society as a source of evil and considers the protection of all persons under 18 to be a central issue of child protection against this evil. Something's not right in these basic positions. Something's not right. Reading this law literally, in a sentence, and in a paragraph-paragrape, there is already a certain depression before a third of the reading. We find out what a person raising a child means, we learn the legal definition of a person working with a child, we hear the general and less general terms of a number of institutions. With all these bureaucratic concepts, which are deliberately defined on the one hand and completely empty on the other, we are creating some kind of appearance that I find highly doubtful as to its ability to improve real life. Deeply doubtful, in particular, because those who wrote this paper did not have faith in their father and mother. It is very difficult for me to imagine any kind of child welfare in any country, if there is no such faith, faith in father, mother, family, sisters, brothers, grandmothers, grandfathers, etc. This belief has been lost in the writing of the bill and, of course, there will be an amorphous mass of people, 1.3 million of whom will surely be found the source of evil, and from whom these children, which are becoming fewer and fewer, must be passionately protected. I don't know if this law can be improved, and stopping the second reading of this law will give us something. Perhaps this law must finally be passed, but I very much want to hope that this reconsideration period, which will occur at the turn of the year and at a peaceful Christmas time, will help many people to see how we can still trust these people, our fellow countrymen, who have given birth to children. Only when credibility has not been sufficient, care has not been sufficient should the Riigikogu be called upon to help with its bureaucracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U212	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on child protection, which we are discussing today, should be in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted in 1989 and ratified by the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia in 1991. In my opinion, however, the compatibility of the draft law with the aforementioned Convention on the Rights of the Child is only partial, not to say selective. § 5 of the draft law lays down the principles of guaranteeing the rights and well-being of the child, setting out the right to life, survival and development and equal treatment without discrimination, declaring that the interests of the child must be a priority in the activities concerning the child and that the child has the right to take a position on matters concerning him or her. These principles can only be accepted, but the list is certainly not sufficient. What is more, important principles are not mentioned, but also essentially not covered by the draft law. In addition, the draft law does not mention the family or the right to emotional closeness to the parent or identity among the principles of guaranteeing the rights and well-being of the child in § 5. At the same time, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child recognises that in order for a child's personality to develop fully and harmoniously, a child must grow in an atmosphere of happiness, love, and mutual understanding among the family. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations has declared that special care and assistance must be given to children, convinced that the family, as a fundamental support to society, and to the natural environment of the growth and well-being of all its members, in particular children, must be provided with the necessary protection and assistance to the extent that it can fully assume its responsibilities in society. This law provides for the family only declaratively, as the Commission rapporteur said. I would add that it even provides for fashionable, as the responsibility of the parent and the person raising the child mentioned in Article 7 (1). The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that subsections 7 (1) and 7 (2) of the draft law provide for the obligation for the national and local authorities to carry out preventive work to prevent children's need for help. When I read this section of the bill and the explanatory memorandum, I was left uninquiring. How can an official employee do prevention work so that the person raising the child can be responsible for ensuring that the natural environment for the development and growth of the child is a family? In my understanding, the family cannot be the responsibility of an official or any human, but the general principle of lawmaking, the ideal situation for which legislation must always support the pursuit. The draft law does not provide for measures to protect families raising children. In my opinion, this is a major drawback of this bill. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that it should be borne in mind that a child needs special protection and care before birth because of his or her physical and mental maturity. This bill protects the rights of the child from the moment of birth, but today, when medical technology is well developed, the Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted as early as 1989, a new situation. The Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that the Contracting Parties undertake to respect the right of the child to maintain an identity recognised by their law, including nationality, name and family relationship without any unlawful interference. At this point, let me remind you once again of this practical example that we could all see in one 'Spectator' clip, where the egg was purchased from one woman, and the child's delivery on the other. Where does a child get the right to identity and closeness to the parent? One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U214	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U215	Thank you. This bill has done a great deal of work, but its foundation, its basic principles, still needs to be improved. The bill must take forward in time, compared to 1989, and take into account today's medical technological conditions, how children can be born today, as well as what rights must be guaranteed for the child. These problems are based on medical ethics, which we have not yet discussed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U216	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. We will close the negotiations and begin the examination of the draft 677 amendments. 13 amendments have been received. The first is from the lead committee; the second is from the lead committee; the third is from the lead committee; the fourth is from the lead committee. The fifth amendment has been received from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the commission has not taken this into account in addition to serious discussions and the proposal is not to be voted on either. The sixth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the position of the commission is that it should be disregarded, and it is not to be voted on either. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the decision of the commission is that it should be partially taken into account. The eighth amendment is from Margus Tsahkna, a member of the Riigikogu, and the decision of the commission is that it should be partially taken into account. The ninth amendment is from the lead committee, the 10th and 11th amendments are from the lead committee. Amendment 12 is from the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is that it should be partially taken into account. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. Two letters have been received to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. The content of the letters is that the second reading of Bill No 677 of the Child Protection Act must be interrupted. The first has come from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the second similar proposal has come from the Group of the Estonian Central Party. One is signed by the chairman of the group, the other by the vice-chairman of the group. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on these proposals. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Their content is one: Bill 677 interrupt the second reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was not supported by a convincing majority (by 30 and against 42 members of the Riigikogu). The second reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U217	Let's move on to item eight. The first reading of the draft law amending the Professional Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Professional Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The need to amend the Professional Act is due to two factors. Firstly, the draft intends to remove some of the technical weaknesses encountered in the implementation of the professional law, including improving terminology, clarifying the organisation of the organisation of the organisation of the institution as a professional provider, simplifying the procedures for setting up professional councils and clarifying the rules for supervision; secondly, the amendment of the professional law aims to provide a legal basis for the creation of a new coordination system for the development of skills, which is the most important element of the draft. A system of coordination for skills development is needed so that the content of training and the provision of training can be better addressed in the future by labour market needs, in other words by helping us to better match learning and labour market needs. While the current professional law already involves the establishment of professional standards and the provision of professions, it now adds elements related to monitoring and forecasting the skills needs of employees. We are faced with the problem that not only here in Estonia, but not anywhere in the world, dialogue between employers and educational institutions is not enough. On the basis of international tests, we can say that although Estonia's educational results are good, i.e. people have become good skills in the education system, they are not sufficiently related to the needs of the labour market. Nearly a third of the working age population in Estonia are completely unskilled, i.e. they have either a general secondary education or a lower education. Rapid changes in the economy will no longer allow education services, training capacity and training provision to be planned in a sufficiently flexible way to meet the needs of a changing labour market using traditional methods. The skills development coordination system links the expertise of the various social partners to the structure, volume and quality planning system of education and training services and supports cooperation between the world of work and educational institutions in the development of curricula and the achievement of labour market information in real career services. On the one hand, a coordination body will be set up in accordance with this law, which will organise coordination of working skills and ordering from the education system in Estonia. On the other hand, through the Skills Coordination System, information about key occupations and critical skills in the labour market will also become available for those who plan their careers. It gives every person the opportunity to identify their strengths and weaknesses, to anticipate what skills, jobs and competences are needed in the labour market over the next five or ten years, and consequently to make the right educational and other career decisions. The system shall be implemented by the Chamber of Professionals of the SA, to which a Coordination Board and sectoral panels of experts on professional activities shall be set up. These collections will identify key agencies in the field of activity and plan the need for them in the coming years. Experts from both employers and schools shall be invited to the panels of experts. As a result, cooperation between the various actors can move to a new level of labour market and education. It is planned that the OSKA system, which has been developed over several years in cooperation with ministries and under the leadership of the State Chancellery, will be implemented from 2015 onwards and the European Social Fund will also be available for this purpose. I'm done with that. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U219	Minister, there are questions for you. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U220	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, There was a question during the debate in the Commission. Courses may be developed in an operational manner to complement the curriculum if the need arises in one field or another. At the time, we pointed out such a need for medicine. But the representative of the ministry could not say exactly how it would affect the approved curriculum, whether there would be extra hours and how it would all develop. Can you answer that question now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U221	In general, we have set out that in vocational education, the output of all curricula could be a specific profession. The curriculum should not simply mean a learning process, but could result in a specifically acquired profession. In terms of professional law, the system is, of course, much wider than the education system. The professions and professional standards shall be approved by the Chamber of Professionals, which shall designate specific professional providers for each particular type of profession. They shall also determine the competences and skills to be attained in order to acquire the profession. It is already possible to come back from there to what kind of training these people need to be provided in order to achieve specific competences. This may be, for example, learning based on a vocational or higher education curriculum, but it may also be further training, which may take place either in an institution of higher education or in a vocational school, which may also take place outside the national formal education system. I'd like to keep these topics a little bit apart. I think that when we implement the professional system, we see the emergence of more shorter curricula, not just two or three-year study programmes, as has been the case so far in the formal education system. There will also be shorter study programmes that provide the specific skills needed to get one invitation or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U222	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U223	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the composition of the professional council. For what reasons has it been abandoned that the Council of Professionals is approved by the Government of the Republic? The Minister will now be the only one to approve the composition of the professional council. The explanatory memorandum states that the process is complex and time-consuming, but this is probably not a very important argument. When the Government of the Republic discusses this matter, different ministers may participate in this decision. I believe that the professional council is a very important body for every educational institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U224	Thank you. After all, the question is that we have defined in principle what the competences that must be in the professional council, as well as in the coordination board, are. One question is who specifically endorses this list, but it is, in principle, clear that in the case of professional councils, however, we are talking about the fact that specific professionals are professionals in this field on the labour market, including teachers, doctors or other professionals. This certainly does not mean that there are, I don't know, ministerial officials or such people in professional councils. Of course, the country always has its own representative, but the vast expertise comes from outside. The whole point of creating this system is to involve the providers of educational services and providers of educational services together in a single system. One of the participants must finally confirm these lists. If there are suggestions that someone else could do this, then the Riigikogu Committee on Culture can certainly consider alternatives during the discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U225	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U226	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Does the implementation of this bill lead to changes in the network of professional bodies that have developed over the last 15 years? As I understand it, there might be other accents, and maybe they're connected to other regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U227	Thank you. There is not much direct or even indirect connection here. In planning the VET network, we have taken as a general objective that it should be possible to obtain vocational education in the counties. Due to the specific nature of the counties, there are some exceptions, for example, it is difficult to maintain a VET centre with a broad profile in Hiiumaa because there are not enough students there. Overall, the VET network has developed to a large extent. Of course, on the basis of changes in the labour market, vocational schools need to review their curricula. This process is continuous. If it turns out, for example, that in 10 years a profession needs significantly fewer people with one or another profession, but that people with another profession are needed, then, of course, the vocational education system must respond to it, open new curricula, review existing curricula and review the training order. It's a natural part of the process. But the adoption of this law certainly has no direct bearing on the nature of the VET network.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U228	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Mart Meri, member of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U229	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Professional Act was on the agenda of the Committee on Culture on 20 October. The draft was presented by Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski and Deputy Head of the Department of Adult Education Külli All. Seven out of the nine members of the Commission were present. The debate in the Commission was relatively lively, as the main changes to the professional law should help to bridge the gap between education systems, including lifelong learning and the labour market. The need to set up a coordination system for skills development was understood by everyone involved in the debate. As we know, the level of knowledge acquired during the education of Estonian people in international comparisons is relatively good, in some areas it is very good. But a more accurate look is seen under the surface of a twofold, somewhat contradictory trend that separates the education system and the labour market. As a result, both those moving from education to the labour market and employers feel uncomfortable, both with their expectations, hopes and needs. One trend is that almost a third of the working age population lacks any professional training. It is a concern that this trend has deepened in the sense that there has been an increase in the number of unskilled young people aged 25 to 35 years. On the other hand, comparative studies show that Estonian people work below the level of skills and knowledge they have acquired, which is also a highly undesirable trend. In comparison with the Member States of the European Union, Estonia stands out as an anomaly here. That is how we had this debate in the Commission. The main objective of this draft is to develop the synergies between the education system and the labour market and to strengthen their direct links by means of a more comprehensive professional system. The amendments proposed in the draft act provide a formal framework whereby the parties that have so far drifted apart can, by law, simply communicate with each other in the various bodies of work. The draft also addresses a number of other failures or ambiguities in the implementation of the professional law, which were also listed by the Minister, so that I will not stop at them again. The Members of the Commission asked a lot of questions. I'll bring out some questions and answers. For example, it was asked that if an institution receives an invitation with a diploma, some of them did not, then which option should be preferred by public policy. In response, it was stated that the general objective should be to study programmes whose learning outcomes are clearly linked to the labour market, i.e. the professional standard described. There is currently no such obligation to link the curriculum to the standard, and no absolute obligation can be written either, because there are always curricula with a wider educational reach that cannot, in principle, be pushed into the standard. It was also asked whether it could be certain that the proposed steps would lead the labour market to move in parallel with a public order so that students in vocational schools, for example, would already be linked to the specific needs of the labour market during their studies, i.e. at the edge of the labour market. In response, it was said that vocational education and training is a major concern in organising traineeships that cannot be resolved by the professional law. At present, only one third of graduates of vocational schools receive a certificate of qualification and nearly half of the graduates of vocational schools do not go to the vocational examination at all. It was said that the VET Act contains an implementing provision according to which from 2016 the VET exam will become mandatory for all graduates and, in conjunction with the changes here, the learning outcomes of VET curricula and the real needs of the labour market should start to converge. They also asked why an invitation could not be received from an upper secondary school, such as a guide invitation. In response, it was said that there are currently no curricula at upper secondary school level that could serve as a basis for an invitation. There was an exchange of views within the Commission on the use of the draft term, and doubts were expressed as to whether the text of the law would be burdened with excessive detail, the right place for which would be the Regulation. In any case, the Members present at the Commission unanimously took procedural decisions: to propose that the draft 743 be placed on the plenary agenda by 5 November, to appoint a speaker as rapporteur and to propose to the General Assembly that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 19 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U230	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission has proposed that the first reading be closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 743 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 19 November. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U231	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the Bill of Amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act and to the Law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. It is a great honour to ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U232	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Good evening. The original objective of the Act amending the Liquid Fuel Act and the Ambient Air Protection Act was to lay down the legal bases for the achievement of the target of renewable energy in the transport sector set out in the Directive, guided by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. The current version of the draft provides for measures to increase the share of biofuels in transport fuel. However, it was only recently, a few weeks ago, on 24 October, that the European Council adopted the foundations for a European climate and energy policy up to 2030, with more focus on one central objective than before: a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to the 1990s. If a separate renewable energy target in the transport sector was set for 2020, it will not be set separately by 2030. A priority for the European Union is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as cost-effectively as possible. The Council conclusions state that it is important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the risks associated with dependence on fossil fuels in the transport sector. The European Council therefore invites the Commission to further analyse the instruments and measures for a comprehensive and technologically neutral approach to promoting emission reductions and energy efficiency in transport, for electricity transport and for the use of renewable energy sources in transport beyond 2020. ' Given that these targets will not be changed to binding targets for Member States and that climate targets have been re-established very recently, I consider it appropriate to take time off in the liquid fuel law when setting biofuel supply requirements and to review the mechanisms for implementing the new requirements. That is why, after my first reading, I will propose an amendment by which I will withdraw this part of the draft law in order to review it and adapt it to the current situation and to present it again in a new form in the future. However, two important points remain in the bill, which I will discuss in greater detail. Part of the draft proposal relating to the liquid fuel market aims to improve the possibilities for effective public oversight of the liquid fuel market and to address the problems faced by public authorities when selling fuel. Firstly, this draft introduces the obligation to keep stock records for persons authorised to use fuel storage services. This is necessary because fuel storage is one of the places where it is difficult to determine the origin of the fuel afterwards and is also used to cover up tax fraud in the fuel market. In addition to legally acquired fuel, fuel or fuel-like product from which taxes have not been paid may also enter the fuel warehouse. When handling fuel storage, the Tax and Customs Board has limited possibilities and powers to monitor storage service providers and therefore it is not possible to effectively identify what is happening in the fuel storage facilities. Currently, fuel delivery sheets can be checked, i.e. what comes into storage and what goes from storage, as well as the quality of fuel storage and the existence of a licence. However, transactions in stores remain hidden. At the same time, there are cases where fuel changes owners in stock at impressive speeds several times. The obligation for the person providing fuel storage services to keep stock records creates better opportunities for the Tax and Customs Board to get an overview of the fuel transactions in the warehouse, which in turn makes it possible to reach tax fraud organisers more quickly. Another substantive change that remains in the draft is the creation of opportunities for public authorities to engage in the sale of fuel for public tasks. Public authorities which, in the performance of their public tasks, are mainly exposed to the sale of seized fuel do not meet the requirements of the Liquid Fuel Act for the person selling fuel. The current Liquid Fuel Act requires the fuel seller to be authorised in an economic activity register and sets out the conditions which a public entity cannot fulfil, such as the requirement to have a share capital of a certain size. The draft is intended to legitimise the possibility that public authorities will be able to sell, if necessary, fuel which will be available to them at the court's discretion for disposal in the course of an auction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U233	Minister, thank you very much too. You have at least one question. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about this...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U235	I'm sorry! Do you want to or don't you want to ask? You said you would.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U236	I do!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U237	Got it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U238	Thanks for the opportunity. I would like to ask about a nice target such as the 20% share of biofuels. The first part of the question is where this percentage is taken from. The other side is how this objective is being achieved. Compared to the quantities currently used, I think it's 100 times more. There are six years left, and this goal seems a little unrealistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U239	Thank you. Estonia has committed to the European Union that by 2020, the total share of renewable energy will be 25%. There are its sub-objectives by sector. In transport, the target is 10%, not 20%. At present, the share of biofuels used in transport is less than a percentage. Indeed, it should be increased ten times. Yeah, it's six years. It is true that the European Commission will assess this result, for example if it looks at achieving the overall target in 2017 or 2018. Here we go nicely, we're going pretty nicely towards this 25%. We have a transport problem. But if we are on a good level with the overall goal, it will not be thrown at us until 2020 is here. Of course, we need to work towards 10% of the fuel used by 2020 being biofuels. The Ministry of Economic Affairs considers that the main way to achieve this is to place a certain proportion of fuel in biofuels on fuel sellers, who currently have 16 in Estonia. But, as I said, we will once again look calmly at these measures and mechanisms in which to achieve this and we will come back to it. There may have been a few things left unwritten in the bill, too. We assumed, for example, that if fuel sellers were obliged to have 10% of all the fuel they are selling, then their choice would be whether, for example, they would not put biofuels in one type of petrol, for example, petrol 98 is clean as it is today, but at the same time 95 biofuels would be 20% in petrol. What is important is how the ultimate goal is achieved: 10% of the total fuel sold. But it will probably also have to be regulated more precisely to take down the fears of society, as if the fuel that is not mixed with biofuels will soon no longer be available on the market at all. This has certainly not been the aim of this draft, and it will not continue to be. Because as long as there are cars that do not drive biofuels, the state will have to guarantee that the fuel that suits them will be available at a reasonable price.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U240	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U241	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! After all, fuel quality and consumer sensitivity have always been crucial for fuel, especially for retail and car fuel. We have all encountered stretching buses on the way to the pancake stench because biofuels are relatively inefficient and the bus engine is not capable of working well with this fuel. Speaking of biofuels, I have to say that I do not know at present any significant biofuel plants in Estonia that would not have gone bankrupt yet. In the Ministry's opinion, does this pressure on biofuels and the need for it to be imported from outside increase our energy dependency or try to reduce it in any way? I do not see the possibility of producing biofuels in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U242	Thank you. The way fuel sellers mix existing fuel with biofuels remains up to them. That's the answer. Nobody in Estonia is currently offering biofuels at a low price and it is not really visible that it is coming. I agree with you that everyone who has tried it has gone bankrupt. How has it been applied elsewhere? In Latvia, these rules are in place and the market works. However, it is usually the case that fuel is mixed with biofuels already in the mother country, for example, when fuel comes from Norway, then the fuels are mixed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U243	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! How has this directive gone in other parts of the world? Does Estonia want to be at the forefront again and get ahead of everyone by 2020? How much has this directive already been complied with in other European countries? Do you think there'll be a level by 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U245	Thank you. From the very beginning, I said that we would propose to remove this part of the draft. Therefore, I believe that we can discuss biofuels more meaningfully when we come back here and deal with this issue. I'm telling you in advance, we're not going to handle this today. But I can still give you some examples. The truth is that most countries are struggling to comply with this directive and are all bulging. However, in Latvia, for example, two support measures are currently being implemented: the exemption from excise duty on biofuels (also in Estonia, but it was abolished in 2011) and fuel requirements, analogous to those that Estonia had planned to set out. According to the fuel requirements, the share of biofuels in the fuel marketed in Latvia must be 4.5-5% by volume and the requirement does not apply to petrol 98 and winter diesel. The excise duty exemption applies to clean biofuels and, to a more limited extent, to petrol E85 if it contains 85% bioethanol. It should be said that in some countries, as far as I know in Sweden and Norway, the majority of the fuel sold has already been bio-mixed, and this same E85 also contains biofuels. For example, there is no excise duty on diesel B30 in Latvia as it is 30% biodiesel. In Latvia, these measures have been in place since 2012. At the time, they had a share of 2.2% of biofuels, which I believe is now more than 5%. So these measures have had an impact. Speaking of Lithuania, there is currently a strong reform of biofuel support measures. The whole of Europe is making an effort. In developed Europe, the Nordic countries, the results are better, because there really is a common type of fuel mixed with biofuels at filling stations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U246	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U247	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The directive says that 10% of the fuel used in transport should be biofuels.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U248	Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U249	This part of this bill, which I understand so much, we are not processing, says that 10% of liquid fuel should also be biofuels in 2020. But where's the biogas? In this case, are we not going to rely on biogas until 2020 at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U250	We are still relying, among other things, on biogas. For example, last year the Estonian state bought a hundred gas buses, which are currently not using biogas, but they were bought by counting that they could switch to biogas in the future. It's also part of the concept. We can discuss more on these issues if we come here with this bill on biofuels.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U251	Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U252	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm trying to ask you two questions at once again. The first of these concerns my previous question. Let me get this straight: if there is any addition to the fuel that makes it biofuels, the price of that fuel will rise, but you expect consumers to buy it anyway? Do you really believe that? The second question is that we did not discover the standards of the European Union today. I'm sure the Ministry had known about them for years, I assume since 2001. However, we have had less than 1% of the share of renewable energy for several years. Then why hasn't anyone dealt with it so far? Are you planning on conducting some kind of investigation at the Ministry and finding out who's responsible, after all, that these things have not been dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U253	The responsible is always and always the minister. Indeed, it can be said that the results were not achieved during the previous minister's term, currently the share of renewable energy or biofuels in the transport sector is less than 1%. It seems that the market itself does not put it in place. It must be regulated by the state if we are to meet the objective. As far as the price is concerned, since I did not think that we would be discussing this issue for a long time today, because I am withdrawing this part of the bill, I will now say this information by heart, I do not have them with me. As a positive surprise to me, this rise is very small. For example, if conventional fuel is mixed with biofuels with 10% or more biofuels, this price increase will be zero decimal points in cents. I gave an example of price increases in other countries, because stock market prices are the same. This slope is actually very small, it was even a surprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U254	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The use of biofuels, as such, does not actually reduce pollution on the road. At the same time, biofuel production also pollutes relatively much. Why does it take all this shit to get biofuel to gas stations? Why can't it be used in a power plant or in a stationary heating source to convert energy? Why does it have to be distributed? Is this only because of the European directive, or do we just want to please Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U256	If we are part of the European Union, then we will therefore have obligations. It's part of them. Indeed, we must fulfil our responsibilities and this must be done not only by us but by all the Member States. In this area, however, Estonia is a tail jogger, not a direction indicator. As I said, in the Nordic countries, for example, fuel already mixed with biofuels is preferred, it is available everywhere at filling stations and it is sold very much. So I'm sure we're not going to revolutionize here right now, and we're not going to point the world in any direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U257	Dear Minister, Aivar Riisalu will ask you his second question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U258	Thank you, Mr President, for this extraordinary kindness. Good minister! I, who have been doing a little in my life in this area, had one nuance to my ear about this bill: the public authorities are now able to sell fuel on a legal basis, in particular specially confiscated fuel. I remember one beautiful May Day in the second half of the 1990s when eight trains filled with illegal fuel were confiscated at Maardu Station in one day, à 2,500 tons on the train. It's all sold out by the Customs Department at auction. Now could all those criminals who have been confiscated over the years ask the state to return this fuel because it has been illegally sold by the customs authorities? That would be a pretty bad break for the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U259	It's hard for me to comment on this case. I don't know what to say to that. I know by law the situation is as I described it before. Whether this fuel has been sold and how it has been sold, let it be examined by other bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U260	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Jaan Õunapuu, Member of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U261	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, what is left of us? This draft was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs at its meeting on 22 September. The meeting was attended by Minister Urve Palo, Head of Strategic Planning of the Department of Energy, Madis Laaniste, and Specialist of the Legal Department Annika Talve. The debate was quite long and, as is the case here, some of the delegates have asked very constructive questions. As a Commission rapporteur, I must be guided by the rules and rules of procedure of the Riigikogu and, despite the fact that the Minister has called some of the draft back, I must talk about everything that was said in the committee. The first question that should be pointed out is that, according to the fuel vendors, older cars have mixed fuel problems if fuel has stood still. The response of the people in the Ministry of Economic Affairs was that smaller biofuels E5 and B7 are suitable for older cars. There should be no such problems with a biofuel content of up to 7%. It is therefore reasonable to keep liquid fuel on the market for older cars after a transitional period, i.e. after 2020. This is the point of discussion on whether to include in the law that after 2020 even fuel sellers will be obliged to sell fuel with a lower share of biofuels. It asked what the current starting position was. The answer was that in the transport sector most renewable energy comes from electricity transport, which is around 0,2%, not more. The country has also bought gas buses, which can use biogas if necessary. My colleague, Margus Hanson, also asked about this today, and the minister replied to him. The question was what is the outlook for biofuel production in Estonia. The answer was that there was a development plan for the bioeconomy. It doesn't exist yet, but it's being dealt with at the Ministry of the Environment. It asked what the Estonian fine would be if we did not implement the European directive. The reply of the Ministry's officials was that there is a basic amount for each country, depending on the degree of infringement, plus a penalty for each day of delay in taking over. Which would be a fine, it's hard to say. As I said, we discussed this on 22 September, but as Urve Palo said here, the European Council discussed the subject on 24 October and made new fundamental decisions and changes. There was also a question of what Mr Laurson was interested in here, namely the activities of our neighbours and other countries in transposing the directive. The minister responded beautifully. I will add so much that Finland has formal obligations and a transitional period similar to ours until 2020. Inconsistency was brought out in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Explanatory Memorandum. Point 6 states that placing the obligation to allow biofuels on the supplier may have an impact on the price of the fuel. However, point 7 states that the implementation of the Act does not have a significant impact on the budgets of local authorities, since the introduction of biofuel regulation is unlikely to significantly change the price of motor fuel. The answer was that the change in fuel prices should be within 1% and therefore the explanatory memorandum could be supplemented by the words'may have a minor impact'. The explanatory memorandum states that the possible increase in the price of petrol is 0.5 cents and the price of diesel is 2 cents. It was also a question of biofuel taxation. The answer was clear: taxation is volume-based and, in the case of biofuels, remains equal to taxation of other fuels. The question was whether from 2016 all filling stations would be obliged to be ready to supply biofuel fuel. The answer was that the draft allows suppliers to enter into agreements with each other so that this obligation can be fulfilled by one supplier on the basis of an agreement for another, i.e. if one fuel seller is unable to do so, it can agree with the other. It was asked when the Government of the Republic was informed that such a directive would need to be implemented. This took place in 2009 when the European Commission adopted this directive. The answer of the ministry officials to the question, which was then expected not to be dealt with before, was that they were hoping for exemptions from excise duty. The last question concerned our energy dependence or independence from Russia. The answer was that, as far as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is aware, the European Commission has not concluded agreements with external suppliers to bring biofuels to the European market. Biofuels can be placed on the market through a recognised supply chain of certification agencies. That was the debate we had. As you have heard, parts of the directive are now being withdrawn from the draft and will be discussed. As rapporteur for the Commission, it is still my duty to highlight the three stencil points that the Commission has decided on. Firstly, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 October. In the meantime, we have changed this decision and we have brought the draft before you today, perhaps on 5 November. Secondly, we decided to propose ending the first reading (this decision was consensual). Thirdly, we have a proposal to set the deadline of 19 November at 5 p.m. for the submission of amendments (also a consensual decision). Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U262	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. It is now that Aivar Riisalu wishes to take the floor. The Bureau has received a statement from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union stating that Aivar Riisalu will be authorised to speak on this item. So please, representative of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Group, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U263	Good President! I'm gonna take three more minutes right now, which I really need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U264	It wasn't in that statement, but really, you have the right to take them. So eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U265	The subject is actually serious. Let's just say that the Union of Fatherland and Res Publica clearly remembers that in the last seven years, the Minister of Economic Affairs has been our party minister. This bill's been hanging in the air all along. The Minister of Economic Affairs of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Juhan Parts, deliberately held this bill back, because the problems associated with this bill are slightly more than the benefits to society of this bill. It must be acknowledged that the Socialist Minister for Economic Affairs, Urve Palo, admitted here today that the biofuel part of the bill really needs to be revised. We are sincerely pleased about that. Now let me give you some examples that clearly point out that this is a complex issue. After all, in Estonia, it is primarily for retail consumption (i am referring to the fuel sold to car owners) that has been tried to produce biofuels in a number of cases. I have had the opportunity to analyse one project myself, which would have given us the opportunity to grow 220,000 hectares of rape in Estonia. This could have met quite a large part of the demand for biodiesel in the transport sector. This all failed because the excise exemption needed for this project was clearly achieved seven years later, clearly too late for this project. This is one example of the fact that biofuels are an area where everyone is trying to do something, but when it comes to the behaviour of the European Union and the prohibitions and orders arising from the Euro Directives, the rules should actually be agreed across Europe. The production of biofuels in regions and their use in road transport can only logically be possible if the European Union grants the right to exempt excise duties, for example. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a situation where biofuels seem to be something good and fun, and this will give us the opportunity to provide, for example, cheaper transport services. Another example is that in certain areas of Estonia there were bus buses that had been running around at a certain time, behind which there was such a nice Sunday morning feeling, because the smell of pancake also came in sufficient quantities in the cab of the car behind the bus. After all, our former good colleague from the Riigikogu in his bus company tried to use biofuels in bus transport because it seemed to make public transport more competitive, precisely because the price of fuel is decreasing. Unfortunately, in real life, it didn't all look like that. Therefore, when we are talking about the share of biofuels in the energy balance, it is probably not very wise to put this fuel on the car fuel market, let's say, into the transport sector, because it still requires very specific investments in Estonia. The most legendary biofuel plant, the big modern factory in Paldiski, has actually gone through the bankruptcy process. The farther goal might be that the introduction of biofuels as a car fuel would increase our energy independence, but unfortunately this is not possible now, because we really cannot produce this fuel, but if we start bringing it in, or if it is mixed into conventional fuel somewhere else in the world, I am not very sure that this fuel is very good quality, but I am quite sure that this will not add anything to our energy independence, because the supply channel behind the border can also close. I think there are plenty of opportunities in Estonia to use biofuels in other energy sources. I am thinking, above all, of heat production and perhaps even of electricity and heat cogeneration and all these things. We have enough bush, we have a developing wood pellet industry. By the way, pellet heating is the type of heating used in the world, for example, for oil heating or for heating with mineral fuels, but it is also green heating. Perhaps it would be wise to show the world that, yes, we are quite good, but in our sensitive economy, keeping the price level of car fuel at a reasonable level is actually quite important to us, especially now that the price of oil has fallen. That is, if we cannot, yes, indeed, fight for ourselves considerable excise benefits. But it must be acknowledged that neither the world of biofuels can be thrown aside. This is a question of the living environment, and it is certainly very, very important in the future. With this bill, to be quite honest, it really was what I tried to ask the Minister about. If, for the first time, the public authorities have the legal right to sell fuel, I really ask the almighty one that all previous sales of fuel from public structures would not have been in breach of the law. I very much hope that this was not the case, but that it will once again be a failure in the process of writing the law, if it is as if the impression is given to the impression that I would emphasise once again that I very much hope that I am wrong that this sale was not allowed in the past. But I think it may have been allowed, because the country always has the right to act as a state and if someone is doing a criminal on its territory, then it must be treated in a worthy manner. So there are subjects. If we admit today that it went wrong, it's very beautiful, and we always have to admit it to make it better, but it means that it doesn't only make sense for us to look around in part and do whatever it takes. Let's think rationally, have a debate and make a proper law! That is why, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I propose to reject draft law 675 at first reading. Let's get back to that. The proposal for rejection is extremely well-considered. We believe that this is a necessary and sensible proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U266	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U267	Yeah, sure. That was the mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U268	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. There is another proposal that has come from the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance. It says that draft 675 should be rejected at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association have proposed to reject draft 675 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. by 5 votes to 26 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We are going back to the proposal of the lead committee, which has asked for the first reading to be completed. I will set the deadline of 19 November at 5 p.m. for the submission of 675 amendments to the draft text. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U269	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft Act 707 on ratification of the Annex 'European Communities and their Member States' to the General Agreement on Trade in Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. Urve Palo, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U270	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a slightly complex draft before you, an annex to the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation, 'European Communities and their Member States', a draft law on ratification of special obligations. The purpose of this ratification act is to approve the consolidated list of specific obligations of the European Community and its Member States, including the Republic of Estonia, resulting from the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 and from agreements with the members affected by the WTO. As we know, Estonia joined the World Trade Organisation, or the WTO, in 1999, thereby assuming international obligations, including in the field of trade in services. Therefore, as an annex to the Protocol on Accession to the WTO, the WTO General Agreement on Trade in Services also ratified the so-called "special obligations for services', which contains a list of services for which the State has undertaken to treat other WTO Members in accordance with the conditions set out in the Schedule. This list has been updated since the enlargements of the European Union in 1995 and 2004, which also reviewed the lists of specific obligations of the accession countries in order, inter alia, to avoid so-called positive discrimination where third-country service providers are treated less favourably than European Union service providers. In September 2006, the European Union transmitted to the WTO Services Council for certification a consolidated list containing, inter alia, compensatory amendments, as the accession of new countries had led to a reduction in the level of obligations for the provision of services under the WTO, i.e. certain obligations had been waived or additional reservations had been added, i.e. restrictions and requirements for third country service providers. This, in turn, triggered a process which, according to WTO rules, requires agreement with WTO members affected negatively, i.e. those whose trade in services is potentially affected by these restrictions. As the European Commission represents the Member States of the European Union in the WTO, it was under an obligation to negotiate and conclude agreements to compensate for the negative effects of the changes. No compensatory additions were made on the Estonian account. The question may arise as to why the draft law on ratification of the 2004 list is only at first reading today. This has been caused by a number of legal problems, the most important of which is probably the dispute between the Council of the European Union and the Commission on the legal bases for the entry into force of the lists. This means that it is either an exclusive competence of the European Union or a shared competence which also requires internal procedures of the Member States to be ratified in this case. On this point, the Court of Justice was asked to give an opinion which was in line with the Council's view that negotiations with WTO Members on behalf of the Member States of the European Union also included areas of shared competence, such as transport and education services, which necessitates the approval and ratification procedures of the countries of the European Union. When it comes to the impact on the Estonian economy as a whole, the obligations in the consolidated list will certainly improve and clarify the conditions under which companies from third countries can provide services in Estonia and in the European Union. Mixed contracts are foreign contracts of the Republic of Estonia. If the circumstances mentioned in § 121 of the Constitution exist, the Treaty must be ratified in the Riigikogu. The entry into force of the agreements requires a unilateral communication from the Community and its Member States on the date of entry into force of the WTO. This Communication can only be sent once all internal decision-making procedures in the Member States have been completed. Please support this bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U271	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions? What's not there isn't. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Olga Sõtnik, member of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 13 October. Christman Roos, Minister and Head Specialist of the Consumer and Competition Policy Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, gave an overview of the draft law. There was no longer discussion in the committee, as is the case in this Chamber today. The members of the Economic Commission adopted three consensual decisions. First, to put the draft law on the agenda by 5 November, i.e. today, second, to finish the first reading, thirdly, to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-11-05_U273	Thank you, too. No questions for you either. Now I would like to ask all the representatives of the political groups who wish to speak here. No calls, no negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 707 amendments on 12 November at 12 noon. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of our work! Closure of the sitting at 6.15 p.m.
